Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Critical Accounting Policies. If we determine that an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. 21 Item 2: Properties The following are the principal facilities (by square footage) of the Company: Location Industry Segment Floor Area Principal Operations Number of Sq. Ft. New Hartford, NY Hospitality Government Logistics Management Principal executive offices, manufacturing, research and development laboratories, computing facilities 140,850 Rome, NY Government Research and development 31,900 Stowe, VT Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 21,300 Boulder, CO Hospitality Service 20,500 Boca Raton, FL Hospitality Research and development 14,900 Sydney, Australia Hospitality Sales and service 14,000 Las Vegas, NV Hospitality Service 12,000 Vaughn, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 10,000 Toronto, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 7,700 The Companys headquarters and principal business facility is located in New Hartford, New York, which is near Utica, in central New York State. The Company owns its principal facility and adjacent space in New Hartford. All of the other facilities are leased for varying terms. Substantially all of the Companys facilities are fully utilized, well maintained, and suitable for use. The Company believes its present and planned facilities and equipment are adequate to service its current and immediately foreseeable business needs. Item 3: Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 4: RESERVED 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock, par value $.02 per share, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE symbol - PAR). At December 31, 2010, there were approximately 437 owners of record of the Companys Common Stock, plus those owners whose stock certificates are held by brokers. The following table shows the high and low stock prices for the two years ended December 31, 2010 as reported by New York Stock Exchange: 2010 2009 Period Low High Low High First Quarter $ 5.30 $ 6.33 $ 3.74 $ 6.03 Second Quarter $ 5.14 $ 7.28 $ 4.84 $ 7.23 Third Quarter $ 4.69 $ 6.20 $ 5.00 $ 7.24 Fourth Quarter $ 5.24 $ 6.92 $ 5.26 $ 6.59 The Company has not paid cash dividends on its Common Stock, and its Board of Directors presently intends to continue to retain earnings for reinvestment in growth opportunities. Accordingly, it is anticipated that no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. 23 Item 6: Selected Financial Data SELECTED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA (In thousands, except per share amounts) The following selected historical consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Net revenues $ 239,939 $ 223,048 $ 232,687 $ 209,484 $ 208,667 Cost of sales $ 177,310 $ 177,573 $ 175,237 $ 157,576 $ 153,158 Gross margin $ 62,629 $ 45,475 $ 57,450 $ 51,908 $ 55,509 Selling, general & administrative $ 40,794 $ 36,207 $ 36,790 $ 37,517 $ 33,440 (Provision) benefit for income taxes $ (1,000 ) $ 1,314 $ (1,358 ) $ 1,497 $ (3,146 ) Net income (loss) $ 3,123 $ (5,186 ) $ 2,217 $ (2,708 ) $ 5,721 Basic earnings (loss) per share $ .21 $ (.36 ) $ .15 $ (.19 ) $ .40 Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ .21 $ (.36 ) $ .15 $ (.19 ) $ .39 SELECTED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA (In thousands) December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Current assets $ 97,943 $ 92,916 $ 110,038 $ 97,879 $ 95,453 Current liabilities $ 52,057 $ 46,201 $ 59,969 $ 52,284 $ 46,473 Total assets $ 144,285 $ 136,103 $ 153,988 $ 146,518 $ 142,258 Long-term debt $ 2,744 $ 4,455 $ 5,852 $ 6,932 $ 7,708 Shareholders equity $ 86,759 $ 83,235 $ 86,257 $ 84,987 $ 86,083 The selected consolidated financial statement data summarized above is reflective of certain business acquisitions. 24 Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency f luctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercializatio n; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PARs technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and professional/lifecycle support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, luxury hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and specialty retailers. We provide technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal, state, and local governmental organizations. We also provide information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense, delivering comprehensive and sophisticated support for communication and network operations worldwide. PAR also provides innovative asset monitoring and tracking systems for customers in the road, rail, and transit markets by providing advanced integrated solutions for all types of refrigerated and dry assets. 25 The Companys products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing primarily on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PARs global infrastructure and reach as a technology solutions provider to hospitality customers is an important competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide innovative systems, with significant global deployment capability to its multinational customers such as McDonalds, Yum! Brands, CKE Restaurants and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group. 160;PARs continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions and services with excellent customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed our customers requirements and also has high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding three distinct parts of its Hospitality businesses. First, the Company is making significant investments in developing next generation software for its luxury hotel and restaurant markets. Second, the Company continues to work on building a more robust and extensive distribution channel. Lastly, as the Companys customers continue to expand in international markets, particularly in Asia and the Pacific Rim, PAR has created an international infrastructure focused on that region. Approximately 28% of the Companys revenues are generated by its government business. The operational performance of PARs Government segment has translated into consistently winning new contracts, extended contracts, and renewed contracts. PAR provides its clients the technical expertise necessary to operate and maintain complex technology systems utilized by government organizations. PARs Logistics Management business continues to add new accounts. Although the Company is experiencing the difficulties of an extended adoption phase of the transport industry, it continues to expand its customer base in the refrigerated and dry van markets. As the market recognizes the value proposition associated with the real time use of location and environmental information in both asset management and cargo quality assurance, the Company believes it is well positioned in this emerging market. 26 The Company will continue to leverage its core technical capabilities and performance into related technical areas and an expanding customer base. The Company will seek to accelerate this growth through strategic acquisitions of businesses that broaden the Companys technology and/or business base. Results of Operations 2010 Compared to 2009 The Company reported revenues of $239.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, An increase of 8% from the $223 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Companys net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $3.1million, or $0.21 earnings per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $5.2 million, or $0.36 loss per diluted share for the same period in 2009. Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $101.4 million, an increase of 40% from the $72.6 million recorded in 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in sales to a major restaurant customer in fulfillment of a large technology upgrade program being executed by that customer. In addition to this increase, sales through the Companys dealer channel have increased significantly as compared to 2009. A 27% increase in international product revenue during the year further contributed to growth in 2010. Customer service revenues primarily include installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $71.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a 3% decrease from $74 million reported for the same period in 2009. This decrease is mostly attributable to a decrease in installation and field service revenue as a result of the completion of a specific initiative with a major customer in 2009. These decreases were partially offset by increases in revenue from professional services within the Restaurant business, as well as service revenue associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. Government contract revenues were $66.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of 13% when compared to the $76.4 million recorded in the same period in 2009. This decrease was due to the completion of certain contracts in 2010 as well as a reduction in pass through revenue that occurred in 2009 but did not recur in 2010. 27 Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2010 were 34.4%, an increase from the 32.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009. This improvement was primarily the result of an improved product mix resulting from an increase in the volume of terminals sold relative to related peripherals, as well as various cost reduction and efficiency improvement efforts implemented across the Companys Restaurant and Hotel/Resort/Spa businesses. Additionally, 2009 product margin was unfavorably impacted by a charge of $944,000 recorded relative to a non-recurring write-down of inventory associated with discontinued product lines due to a change in customer requirements. Customer service margins were 32.7% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 23.8% for the same period in 2009. A significant contributor to this variance was a non-recurring charge of $4.5 million recorded in 2009 primarily associated with the write down of service inventory related to discontinued products as a response to certain major customers announcing their initiative to accelerate planned upgrades of their POS systems. Exclusive of the aforementioned charge, fiscal year 2009 service margins were 29.9% versus 32.7% in the current year. This improvement is the result of cost reduction efforts in the Companys luxury hotel, resort and spa software business as well as improvements in international service mar gins resulting from the execution of various cost reduction strategies. Government contract margins were 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase from 5.5% for the same period in 2009. This increase was due to a reduction in low margin pass through revenue that occurred in 2009 but did not recur in 2010, as well as improved margins associated with contract completions in 2010. The most significant components of contract costs in 2010 and 2009 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2010, labor and fringe benefits were $48.4 million or 78% of contract costs compared to $52.4 million or 73% of contract costs for the same period in 2009. Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $40.8 million, an increase of 13% from the $36.2 million expense for the same period in 2009. Of this increase, $2.8 million is associated with an increase in restaurant sales and marketing expense attributable to the increase in revenue. Increases also relate to the Companys continued investment in its luxury hotel, resort and spa software and Logistics Management businesses. These increases were partially offset by a decline in stock-based compensation expense. 28 Consolidated research and development expenses were $17.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of 20% from the $14.2 million recorded in 2009. The increase was the result of increased research and development expenditures in support of the Companys luxury hotel, resort and spa software business as well as the continued investment in its Logistics Management business. These increases were partially offset by cost reductions achieved in outsourcing through strategic relationships. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $939,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 million for 2009. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2010. Other income, net, was $640,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $165,000 for the same period in 2009. Other income primarily includes rental income, income from the sale of certain assets, finance charges and foreign currency gains and losses. The increase is primarily due to an increase in finance charge income related to a specific outstanding receivable collected during the year as well as a gain on the sale of certain assets. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $352,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $400,000 in 2009. The Company experienced lower average borrowings in 2010 when compared to 2009. The Company also recognized a decrease in interest expense of $115,000 related to its interest rate swap agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Companys effective income tax rate was 24.3%, compared to an effective income tax benefit of 20.2% in 2009. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2010 is primarily due to the benefit derived from certain federal tax credits as well as the exclusion of certain foreign income from U.S. taxable income that was taxed by the local jurisdiction at a rate lower than the federal statutory rate. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2009 was primarily the result of the establishment of a valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax assets, which decreased the tax benefit. 29 Results of Operations 2009 Compared to 2008 The Company reported revenues of $223 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of 4% from the $232.7 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Companys net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $5.2 million, or $0.36 loss per diluted share, compared to a net income of $2.2 million, or $0.15 earnings per diluted share for the same period in 2008. The results of 2009 include pre-tax non-recurring charges of $6.5 million. Of this amount, approximately $5.3 million was a non-cash charge related to the write-down of certain inventory associated with discontinued products. The remaining $1.2 m illion cash charge was related to personnel actions. In addition to the above charges, the 2009 results include a charge of $1.4 million related to the establishment of a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets. Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $72.6 million, a decrease of 11% from the $81.8 million recorded in 2008. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in sales to certain restaurant concepts as new store rollouts that occurred in 2008 did not recur in 2009, partially offset by an increase in sales to a new account. In addition, sales in the Companys luxury hotel resort and spa software business experienced a decline in 2009. These decreases were further offset by an increase in sales of the Companys Logistics Management products to several commercial customers. Customer service revenues primarily include installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $74 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a 2% decrease from $75.4 million reported for the same period in 2008. This decrease is mostly attributable to a decrease in installation revenue which is directly related to the total product revenue discussed above. These decreases were partially offset by increases in revenue associated with the Companys depot service center as well as service revenue associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. Government contract revenues were $76.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of 1% when compared to the $75.5 million recorded in the same period in 2008. This increase is the result of various new contract wins, partially offset by the completion of multiple contracts during 2009. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2009 were 32.5%, a decrease from the 39.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008. This decline is primarily due to a shift in product mix, noting a higher content of hardware revenue versus software revenue as compared to total product revenue in 2009 when compared to 2008. The lower software revenue was attributable to a drop in table service revenue as the Company fulfilled the requirements of a major customer in 2008 that did not recur in 2009. Lastly, 2009 product margin was unfavorably impacted by a charge of $944,000 recorded relative to a non-recurring write-down of inventory associated with discontinued product lines due to a change in customer requirements. 30 Customer service margins were 23.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 27.9% for the same period in 2008. This decrease was the result of a non-recurring charge of $4.5 million recorded primarily associated with the write down of service inventory related to discontinued products. This write-down was recorded in 2009 as a response to certain major customers announcing their initiative to accelerate planned upgrades of their POS systems. Exclusive of the aforementioned charge, service margins improved from 2008 as a result of cost reductions and increases in depot service revenue. Government contract margins were 5.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009, unchanged from 5.5% for the same period in 2008. The most significant components of contract costs in 2009 and 2008 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2009, labor and fringe benefits were $52.4 million or 73% of contract costs compared to $53.7 million or 75% of contract costs for the same period in 2008. Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $36.2 million, a decrease of 2% from the $36.8 million expense for the same period in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in sales personnel in the Companys restaurant and hotel and spa businesses, partially offset by increases in the Companys Logistics Management business as well as non-recurring costs of $500,000 associated with personnel actions related to cost reduction initiatives executed during 2009. Consolidated research and development expenses were $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of 7% from the $15.3 million recorded in 2008. This decline was primarily attributable to cost reductions achieved in outsourcing through strategic relationships, which was partially offset by the Companys continued investment in its Logistics Management business as well as non-recurring costs of $500,000 associated with personnel actions related to cost reduction initiatives executed during 2009. 31 Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.5 million for 2008. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2009. Other income, net, was $165,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $921,000 for the same period in 2008. Other income primarily includes rental income and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in foreign currency gains in 2009 when compared to 2008 as well as a decrease in rental income resulting from decreased occupancy in 2009 when compared to 2008. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $400,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $1.2 million in 2008. The Company experienced lower average borrowings and a lower average borrowing rate in 2009 when compared to 2008. The Company also recognized a decrease in interest expense of $146,000 related to its interest rate swap agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Companys effective income tax benefit was 20.2%, compared to an effective income tax rate of 38% in 2008. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2009 was primarily the result of the establishment of a valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax assets, which decreased the tax benefit. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2008 was primarily due to the state income taxes and various nondeductible expenses partially offset by the research and experimental tax credit. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and lines of credit with various commercial banks. Cash provided by operations was $12.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to cash provided by operations of $7.1 million for 2009. In 2010, cash benefited primarily by the Companys operating results, an increase in accounts payable commensurate with the timing of payments to vendors as well as a decrease in accounts receivable resulting from improved collection efforts. These cash flow benefits were partially offset by an increase in inventory resulting from the anticipation of expected requirements in 2011. In 2009, cash flows benefited from the reduction of accounts receivable, which was the result of improved collection efforts implemented in 2009, combined with an overall decrease in accounts receivable commensurate with the decrease in revenue as compared to the prior fiscal year. Cash flow was adversely impacted by the reduction in customer deposits from fiscal year 2008 primarily attributable to a significant advance payment received from a Restaurant customer in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 that did not recur in 2009. 32 Cash used in investing activities was $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, versus $2.2 million for the same period in 2009. In 2010, capital expenditures were $3.8 million and were primarily related to the Companys acquisition of certain technology components to complement its next generation enterprise solution for its Restaurant business. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $2.1 million, an increase from the prior year as a result of investment in the Companys luxury hotel, resort and spa software. In 2009, capital expenditures were $1.3 million and were primarily for manufacturing and computer equipment. Capitalized software cos ts relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $845,000 in 2009. Cash used in financing activities was $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, versus cash used in financing of $7.3 million in 2009. In 2010, the Company decreased its short term borrowings by $2 million as a result of its favorable operating cash flow and decreased its long term debt by $1.4 million in accordance with the related payment schedule. The Company also benefited $551,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. Lastly, the Company purchased $323,000 of treasury stock in 2010. In 2009, the Company decreased its short-term borrowings by $6.8 million and decreased its long-term debt by $1.1 million. The Company also benefited $547,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. The Company has an existing credit agreement containing a borrowing availability up to $20 million in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.27% at December 31, 2010) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at December 31, 2010). This agreement expires in June 2011. At December 31, 2010, the Company did not have any balance outstanding on this credit agreement. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 2.4% during 2010. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The Company is in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2010. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. 33 The Company borrowed $6 million under an unsecured term loan agreement, executed as an amendment to one of its then bank line of credit agreements, in connection with a prior business acquisition. The loan provides for interest only payments in the first year and escalating principal payments through 2012. The loan bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.27% at December 31, 2010) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at December 31, 2010). The terms and conditions of the line of credit agreement described in the preceding paragraph also apply to the term loan. On March 11, 2011, the Company executed a commitment letter with the lenders of its existing credit facility. The commitment initially provides the Company $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in a working capital line of credit. The terms and conditions of the commitment letter are consistent with those of the Companys existing credit agreement which will provide the Company with availability under the line of credit up to 36 months from the date of closing. The committed credit facility will be secured by certain assets of the Company. The commitment letter expires on June 16, 2011. The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement associated with the above $6 million loan, with principal and interest payments due through August 2012. At December 31, 2010, the notional principal amount totaled $2.9 million. This instrument was utilized by the Company to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility. The Company did not adopt hedge accounting, but rather records the fair market value adjustments through the consolidated statements of operations each period. The associated fair value adjustment within the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $115,000, recorded as a reduction to interest exp ense. The adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were $146,000, recorded as a reduction to interest expense and $234,000, recorded as an increase to interest expense. The Company has a $1.5 million mortgage collateralized by certain real estate. The annual mortgage payment including interest totals $222,000. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% and matures in 2019. The Company also leases office space in several locations for varying terms. 34 The Companys future principal payments under its term loan, mortgage and office leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Long-term debt obligations $ 4,455 $ 1,711 $ 1,647 $ 334 $ 763 Operating lease 8,477 2,368 3,733 1,607 769 Total $ 12.932 $ 4,079 $ 5,380 $ 1,941 $ 1,532 During fiscal year 2011, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will be approximately $2 to $3 million. The Company does not usually enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure that additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Company 7;s sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of the Company is su bject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. 35 Revenue Recognition Policy Product revenues consist of sales of the Companys standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment as well as sales of hardware in support of its Logistics Management business. Product revenues include both hardware and software sales. The Company also records service revenues relating to its standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment as well as service related to its Logistics Management business. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company), when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For software sales where the Company is the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, support maintenance, and field and depot repair. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. 36 The individual product and service offerings that are included in arrangements with our customers are identified and priced separately to the customer based upon the stand alone price for each individual product or service sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, the units of accounting are based on each individual product and service sold, and revenue is allocated to each element based on vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value. VSOE of fair value for each individual product and service is based on separate individual prices of these products and services. The sales price used to establish fair value is the sales price of the element when it is sold individually in a separate arrangement and not as a separate element in a multiple element arrangement. Contracts The Companys contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered, which approximates the straight-line bas is of the life of the contract. The Companys obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and appropriate reserves have been established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have experienced in the past. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. 37 Inventories The Companys inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company uses certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. Capitalized Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its Hospitality segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. Software development costs incurred after establishing technological feasibility are capitalized and amortized over the estimated economic life when the product is available for general release to customers. Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. The Company operates in three business segments, Hospitality, Government and Logistics Management, although no goodwill resides within the financial statements of the Logistics Management segment. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the sub-segment level (referred to as a reporting unit). The three reporting units utilized by the Company for its impairment testing are: Restaurant, Hotel/Resort/Spa, and Government. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer r etains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting units fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated impairment. 38 The Company utilizes three methodologies in performing their goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. These methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and two market approaches, namely the guideline public company method and quoted price method. The discounted cash flow method was weighted 80% - 85% in the fair value calculation, while the public company method and quoted price method were weighted each at 5% - 10% of the fair value calculation. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in the prior year. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future benefits at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on the Companys forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80-85% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within the Companys discounted cash flow model include projected financial operating results, a long term growth rate ranging from 4% to 5% (beyond 5 years) and discount rates ranging from 17% to 18%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Companys projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate that was based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies as identified by the Company. A change to the dis count rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a general way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weig hting at 5% - 10% of the fair value calculation for each method. 39 The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparables. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the Restaurant, Hotel/Resort/Spa, and Government reporting units is $12.3 million, $13.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair values of the Restaurant and Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting units exceed their carrying values by approximately 15% and 10%, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Restaurant: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions that it believes are generally materially consistent with historical results.These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has utilized revenue growth estimates ranging from approximately 2% to 7% annually over the next four years. These revenue growth rates trend to a long term growth rate of 5%. The Companys revenue estimates are based primarily on the continued execution of a significant technology upgrade with a major customer as well as the Companys continued penetration into new accounts and markets driven from the upcoming release of its next generation software platform for its Restaurant business. The Company believes that the revenue growth rates used are appropriate based on information it has received from its customers relative to their planned capital investments as well as its own assessment of market demand for technology upgrades. The Company has utilized gross margin estimates that are materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for these reporting units are consistent with actual historical amounts. The Company believes the utilization of actual historical results is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of this reporting unit and has no reason to anticipate that future results will vary significantly from historical results. 40 Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 17% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was assessed based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. Hotel/Resort/Spa: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions built on the current core business adjusted to reflect anticipated revenue increases from continued investment in its next generation software. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has utilized annual revenue growth rates ranging between 1% and 17% which reflects the release of the Companys next generation software platform. This software platform will expand the Companys capabilities into new markets. The Company believes these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which it will enter, combined with the projected market share the Company expects to achieve. These revenue growth rates ultimately trend to a long term growth rate of 5%. The Company has utilized gross margin estimates that are materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment in its next generation software. The Company believes utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect its continued investment in its next generation software is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit. Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 18% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. 41 The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries where the Company operates could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact the Companys operating performance. Although the Company has seen an improvement in the markets which it serves, the continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of the Companys products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of the Companys reporting units used in support of its annual goo dwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value remeasurement, particularly if the Company is unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs. Additionally, if the Company is unable to achieve the projected revenue growth rates following its investment in its next generation software platform for Hotel/Resort/Spa, the carrying value of that reporting unit may increase in excess of the fair value. These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. The Company has reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company including a traditional control premium. Taxes The Company has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the Companys estimates of its future taxable income levels. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report for details of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 42