Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report), the terms PAR, Company, we, us and our mean PAR Technology Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. See also, Forward-Looking Statements below. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical in nature, but rather are predictive of our future operations, financial condition, business strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by words such as anticipate, believe, belief, continue, could, expect, estimate, intend, may, opportunity, plan, should, will, would, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: delays in new product development and/or product introduction; changes in customer base and product and service demands; risks associated with the internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices, including sanctions and fines that may be imposed by the U.S. Department of Justice or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); and the other risk factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law. Overview Our management technology solutions for the Restaurant/Retail segment features cloud and on-premise software applications, hardware platforms, and related installation, technical, and maintenance support services tailored for the needs of restaurants and retailers. Our Government segment provides technical expertise in contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as management technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. Our products sold in the Restaurant/Retail segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by customers worldwide. We face competition across all categories in the Restaurant/Retail segment in which we compete based on product design, innovative features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. Our strategy is to provide complete integrated management technology solutions, supported by industry leading customer service. Our research and development efforts are focused on timely identifying changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies, to rapidly and effectively develop innovative new products and enhancements to our existing products that meet and exceed customer requirements. Our strategy is to expand our Restaurant/Retail business by continuing to invest in our existing products - Brink POS and SureCheck - including the development of enhancements to our existing software applications and hardware platforms and the development of new and innovative cloud based software applications. To support the growth of our products, we continue to expand our direct sales force and third-party channel partners. Currently, PARs primary market is the quick serve restaurant category and hardware sales to tier 1 customers in that category. Consistent with our strategy to expand our product offerings beyond the restaurant/retail markets, we continue to focus on growing and expanding our software offerings, including our cloud software as a service (SaaS) and related hardware and support services. As we implement our strategies, we continuously monitor the trends in the markets within which we currently operate and the markets in which we intend to operate. The strategy for our PAR Government segment is to build on our sustained outstanding performance of existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly-specialized service solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense 15 Table of Contents total workforce policies (military, civilian, and contract), procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for the PAR Government segment. Internal Investigation Update During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we recorded $0.3 million of expenses relating to our Audit Committee's internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices, including expenses of outside legal counsel and forensic accountants compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . See note 10 to the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning expenses of the internal investigation. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 We reported revenues of $55.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 , a decrease of 15.5% from $65.9 million reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 . Our net income from continuing operations was $0.1 million or $0.00 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2018 versus net income of $1.3 million or $0.08 per diluted share for the same period in 2017 . Product revenues were $26.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 , a decrease of 29.2% from $37.2 million recorded for the same period in 2017 , primarily due to the timing and lapping of major hardware project installations with a tier 1 customer in the first quarter of 2017. Service revenues were $13.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 , a decrease of 8.0% from $14.3 million reported for the same period in 2017 , primarily due to a decrease in hardware support services and hardware installations, partially offset by an increase in deployments of our Brink POS software. Contract revenues were $16.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 , an increase of 12.7% from $14.3 million reported for the same period in 2017 . The increase reflects growth associated with both Mission Systems (MS) and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) lines of business. Product margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were 26.2% , compared to 25.9% for the same period in 2017 . Product margins for the quarter improved slightly due to favorable product mix. Service margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were 27.7% , compared to 27.0% recorded for the same period in 2017 . Service margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased due to better product mix driven by SaaS. Contract margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were 8.1% , compared to 11.0% for the same period in 2017 . Lower margins vs prior year due to less profitability in ISR contract and favorable MS contracts closed-out in 2017 replaced by new and rebid contracts at lower margins. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $8.6 million , a decrease of 10.5% compared to the $9.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease is primarily due to a reduction in costs associated with the internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices and savings in personnel costs. SG&A expenses associated with the internal investigation for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $0.3 million as compared to $1.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 . Research and development (R&D) expenses were $2.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 , a decrease of 3.8% from $3.0 million for the same period in 2017 . While we increased our spending in software development this year, the total expense is lower due to a lower amount of hardware development costs in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . During each of the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 , we recorded $0.2 million of amortization expense associated with identifiable intangible assets acquired in the Brink Acquisition. Other income (expense), net, was $49,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 , compared to other expense, net of $248,000 for the same period in 2017 . Other income/expense primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of our deferred compensation plan, rental income, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. Interest expense, net, was interest expense of $41,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared to $32,000 for quarter ended March 31, 2017 due to increased borrowings on the line of credit under our Credit Facility. 16 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Cash used in operating activities from continuing operations was $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to cash used in operating activities from continuing operations of $1.2 million for the same period in 2017 . This increase in cash used in operating activities was primarily driven by a decrease in net income offset by a decrease in net working capital requirements. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . In the three months ended March 31, 2018 , our capital expenditures of $0.6 million were primarily related to the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system and capital improvements made to our owned and leased properties compared to $2.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . We capitalized $1.1 million in costs associated with investments in our Restaurant/Retail segment software platforms during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations was $3.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations of $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . This change was a result of borrowings on our line of credit under our Credit Facility. On November 29, 2016, we, together with certain of our U.S. subsidiaries entered into a three-year credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMorgan Chase). The Credit Agreement provides for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million, with availability thereunder equal to the lesser of (i) $15.0 million and (ii) a borrowing base (equal to the sum of 80% eligible accounts, 50% eligible raw materials inventory and 35% eligible finished goods inventory, with no more than 50% of total eligible inventory included in the borrowing base), less the aggregate principal amount outstanding (the Credit Facility). Interest accrues on outstanding principal balances at an applicable rate per annum determined, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, by reference to the CBFR Spread or the Eurodollar Spread based on the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio as at the determination date. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, incur or permit to exist liens on assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, consolidate or merge, pay dividends and make distributions, and financial covenants, requiring that the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio not exceed 3.0 to 1.0 and, a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.0 for each fiscal quarter. In August 2017, we entered into an Omnibus Amendment Number 1 to Loan Documents with JPMorgan Chase to provide the Company with more flexibility in its use of its assets and a waiver of any default relating to the location of certain collateral. On March 14, 2018, JPMorgan Chase granted the Company a limited waiver of event of default under the Credit Agreement necessitated by the Companys failure to maintain the required minimum fixed charge coverage ratio for the quarter ended December 31, 2017; and, for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, JPMorgan Chase granted the Company a limited waiver of events of default as a result of the Companys failure to maintain a consolidated indebtedness ratio of not greater than 3.0 to 1.0 and to maintain the required minimum fixed charge coverage ratio; this waiver, dated May 8, 2018 is effective through June 8, 2018 (any extension will be at JPMorgan Chases sole discretion), at which date it is expected that the Company will have refinanced the Credit Facility, which we believe the Company can do, as we are currently negotiating and documenting a new credit facility with terms we believe are more aligned with the Companys operations and strategies. On March 31, 2018 , the applicable rate under the Credit Facility was 3.25% plus the CBFR Spread or LIBOR plus the Eurodollar Spread based on the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio. There was a $4.0 million outstanding balance and up to $11.0 million available under the Credit Facility as of March 31, 2018 . In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate, with a balance of $0.3 million and $0.4 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. This loan matures on November 1, 2019. The Companys interest rate is fixed at 4.00% through the maturity date of the loan. The annual loan payment including interest through November 1, 2019 totals $0.3 million . We currently have the intent and we believe we will refinance the Credit Facility. We expect our operating cash flows and availability under the Credit Facility and, subsequently, the expected new credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our operating needs for the next 12 months. Our actual cash needs will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, including growth of our SaaS revenues, the timing and extent of spending to support our product development efforts, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, market acceptance of our products, and potential fines and penalties that, while currently inestimable, could be material (see Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 for further discussion about the potential adverse effect of such fines and penalties on our 17 Table of Contents business). While it is our expectation that our actual credit availability will be determined under a new credit facility, there can be no assurances that we will be able to consummate a refinancing of the Credit Facility prior to expiration of the JPMorgan Chase waiver, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. We believe our use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis. Primary areas where financial information is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, accounting for business combinations, contingent consideration, equity compensation, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Our critical accounting policies have not changed materially from the discussion of those policies included under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 except as it relates to revenue recognition as a result of the adoption of ASC 606 as disclosed in Note 2 of the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" , impacting the accounting for leases intending to increase transparency and comparability of organizations by requiring balance sheet presentation of leased assets and increased financial statement disclosure of leasing arrangements. The revised standard will require entities to recognize a liability for its lease obligations and a corresponding asset representing the right to use the underlying asset over the lease term. Lease obligations are to be measured at the present value of lease payments and accounted for using the effective interest method. The accounting for the leased asset will differ slightly depending on whether the agreement is deemed to be a financing or operating lease. For finance leases, the leased asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis and recorded separately from the interest expense in the income statement resulting in higher expense in the earlier part of the lease term. For operating leases, the depreciation and interest expense components are combined, recognized evenly over the term of the lease, and presented as a reduction to operating income. The ASU requires that assets and liabilities be presented or disclosed separately and classified appropriately as current and noncurrent. The ASU further requires additional disclosure of certain qualitative and quantitative information related to lease agreements. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) - Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . ASU 2017-04 eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test which required entities to compute the implied fair value of goodwill. Under ASU 2017-04, an entity should perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting units fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. ASU 2017-04 will be effective for us on January 1, 2020, with earlier adoption permitted; it is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" , codified as ASC Topic 606. The FASB issued amendments to ASC Topic 606 during 2016. The guidance required additional disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and related cash flows arising from contracts with customers. This guidance became effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and allows for either full retrospective adoption or modified retrospective adoption. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Under that method, we applied the standard to all contracts existing as of January 1, 2018. There was no impact to the Companys retained earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC 606. The Company assessed its control framework as a result of adopting the new standard and notes minimal changes to its systems and other control processes. In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-15, " Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) - Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. " ASU 2016-15 is intended to reduce diversity in practice in how 18 Table of Contents eight particular transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 became effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities are required to apply the guidance retrospectively; however, if it is impracticable to apply the guidance retrospectively for an issue, the amendments related to that issue are applied prospectively. As this guidance only affects the classification within the statement of cash flows, ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on the Company's unaudited consolidated financial statements. In May 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718) - Scope of Modification Accounting. ASU 2017-09 clarifies when changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as modifications. Under ASU 2017-09, an entity does not apply modification accounting to a share-based payment award if all of the following are the same immediately before and after the change: (i) the award's fair value, (ii) the award's vesting conditions and (iii) the award's classification as an equity or liability instrument. ASU 2017-09 became effective for us on January 1, 2018 and did not have a material impact on the Company's unaudited consolidated financial statements.