Item 2: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market s pecifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR Technology is a leading provider of hospitality technology solutions that includes software, hardware and professional/lifecycle support services to several industries including: restaurants, hotels/resorts/spas, cruise lines, movie theaters and specialty retailers. In addition, the Company provides applied technology and technical outsourcing services primarily to the U.S. Department of Defense. PAR also provides best of breed technical tracking systems that focus upon cold chain shipping and logistics for road, rail, and transit markets by providing advanced integrated solutions for all types of refrigerated and dry assets. 11 Table of Contents The Companys hospitality technology products are used in a variety of applications by thousands of customers. PAR faces competition in all of its markets (restaurants, hotels, spas, etc.) and competes primarily on the basis of product design, features, functions, product quality, reliability, price, customer service and deployment capability. The most recent trend in the hospitality industry has been to reduce the number of approved vendors in a specific concept to companies that have global capabilities and reach in sales, service and deployment, can achieve quality and delivery standards, have multiple product offerings, R&D capability, and can be competitive with their pricing. The Companys internation al scope as a technology provider to hospitality customers is a strategic competitive advantage as the Company provides innovative solutions, with significant world-wide reach to its multinational customers such as McDonalds, Yum! Brands, Subway, CKE Restaurants and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group. PARs focus is to provide completely integrated technology products and services with industry leading customer service in the market segments in which it competes. The Company continually initiates new research and development efforts to create innovative technology to meet our customers requirements and also has high probability for broader market appeal and success. PARs business focuses upon operating efficiencies and controlling costs. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the financial markets both in the U.S. and in many other countries where the Company operates, have contributed and may continue to contribute to higher unemployment levels, decreased consumer spending, reduced credit availability and/or declining business and consumer confidence. These factors could also have a material adverse impact on the Company's significant estimates, specifically the fair value of the Company's reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test. The Company has consistently determined the fair value of its reporting units using primarily a discounted cash flow method, which is based on certain assumptions such as projected operating results, growth rates and discount rates. The Company completed its annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 and concluded that no impairment existed. The Company reevaluated the assumptions utilized in its annual impairment test and determined them to remain appropriate based on the Companys actual results achieved to date as well as communication it has received from its customers relative to their planned capital investments. There were no indicators of impairment during the three months ended March 31, 2010 so the Company did not perform an impairment review of goodwill during the quarter. In regards to the current economic conditions, the QSR market continues to be strong for the large international companies, however, the Company has seen an impact on the regional QSR organizations whose business is slowing because of higher unemployment and lack of consumer confidence in specific domestic regions. These smaller businesses are also struggling to access affordable capital in the tight credit markets. Such conditions have had and could continue to have an impact on the markets in which the Company's customers operate, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. However, even with the difficult environment, the Company remains optimistic about its prospects for recovery. The Company is curren tly supporting one of its large international customers as they execute an aggressive upgrade to their in-store technology. In addition the Company is observing an improvement in the pipeline of business with its second tier customers. The Company is currently focusing upon enhancing three distinct areas of its Hospitality segment. First, PAR has been investing in its development of next generation software for both their restaurant and hotel/resort businesses. Second, the Company is building a highly capable and further reaching distribution channel. Third, as the Companys customers continue their expansion into international markets, PAR is creating a global infrastructure, initially focusing on the Asia/Pacific rim due to the new restaurant growth and concentration of PARs customers in that region, but also one that will enhance our deployment and support globally. 12 Table of Contents Approximately 30% of the Companys revenues are generated in our Government segment. PAR provides IT and communications support services to the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army. The Company also offers its services to several non-military U.S. federal, state and local agencies by providing applied technology services including radar, image and signal processing and geospatial services and products. The performance rating of PARs Government segment translates into consistently winning add-on and renewal business and building long-term client-vendor relationships. PAR provides its clients the technical expertise necessary to operate and maintain complex technology systems utilized by government agencies. PARs logistics management business continues to win new accounts. During this past year, the Company announced several new contracts including KLLM Transport Services, CR England and Hapag-Lloyd AG. In the first quarter of 2010 PAR announced Golden State Foods (GSF) as a new customer for their cold chain technology. GSF is a large food service provider to large restaurant chains. PAR continues to expand its customer base in the cold chain and dry van markets. As the market continues to recognize the value proposition associated with the real time use of location and environmental information in both asset management and cargo quality assurance, the Company believes it is well positioned in this emerging market. The Company will continue to leverage its core technical capabilities and performance into related technical areas and an expanding customer base. PAR will seek to accelerate this growth through strategic acquisitions of businesses that broaden the Companys technology and/or business base. Summary The Company believes it is and can continue to be successful in its three businesses, Hospitality, Government I/T Services and Logistics Management Systems; due to its capabilities and industry expertise. The majority of the Companys business is in the quick-serve restaurant sector of the hospitality market. In regards to the current economic landscape, PAR believes that the quick-serve restaurant sector will remain strong, a direct reflection of the value and convenience PARs large quick-service customers provide. The Company continues to execute upon operational initiatives and certain organizational changes that it expects will deliver meaningful cost savings and believes that its fundamental long-term strategy remains intact. It has been the Companys experience that their Government I/T business is resistant to economic cycles. Clearly, PARs I/T outsourcing business focuses on cost-effective operations of technology and telecommunication facilities which must function independent of economic cycles. Additionally, it is the Companys experience that its Government research and development spending has only fluctuated modestly during times of military cutbacks. Lastly, the Companys Logistics Management business continues to win new accounts as the transportation market continues to adopt the Companys cold chain technology. 13 Table of Contents Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2009 The Company reported revenues of $58.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, a decrease of 4% from the $60.5 million reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The Companys net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 was $582,000, or $0.04 earnings per diluted share, compared to net income of $247,000 and $0.02 earnings per diluted share for the same period in 2009. Product revenues were $21.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, an increase of 5% from the $20.2 million recorded in 2009. This increase was primarily due to sales associated with the start of a technology upgrade program with a major customer, partially offset by a large initial sale to a specific restaurant customer and a certain logistics customer in 2009 that did not recur in 2010. Customer service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $19.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, a 4% decrease from the $20 million reported for the same period in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in installation and field service revenue as a result of the completion of a specific initiative with a major customer in 2009, partially offset by an increase in service revenue associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. Contract revenues were $17.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, a decrease of 13% when compared to the $20.2 million for the same period in 2009. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in pass through revenue that occurred in 2009 that did not recur in 2010 associated with a specific contract. Product margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were 32.3%, a decline from 35.4% for the same period in 2009. This decrease in margins was mostly due to a shift in product mix as a result of a decrease in software revenue in 2010 when compared to 2009. Customer service margins were 32.2% for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, compared to 27.5% for the same period in 2009. Service margins increased primarily due to more favorable margin installation services as well as through cost reductions executed across several service areas. 14 Table of Contents Contract margins were 5.9% for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, compared to 5% for the same period in 2009. This increase was due to a reduction in low margin pass through revenue that occurred in 2009 associated with a specific contract that did not recur in 2010. The most significant components of contract costs in 2010 and 2009 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2010, labor and fringe benefits were $13.1 million or 79% of contract costs compared to $13.6 million or 71% of contract costs for the same period in 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were $9.5 million, a decrease of 1% from the $9.6 million for the same period in 2009. This change was the result of a reduction in bad debt expense and stock based compensation expense, offset by an increase in marketing expense associated with the Companys Restaurant business, as well as an increase in expense associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. Research and development expenses were $3.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, an increase of 4% from the $3.3 million for the same period in 2009. The increase was the result of increased research and development expenditures in support of the Companys luxury hotel, resort and spa software business as well as the continued investment in its Logistics Management business, partially offset by cost reductions achieved in outsourcing through strategic relationships. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $234,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, compared to $365,000 for the same period in 2009. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2009. Other income, net, was $141,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 compared to $107,000 for the same period in 2009. Other income primarily includes rental income, income from the sale of certain assets and foreign currency gains and losses. The increase is primarily due to a gain on sale of certain assets. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $71,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 as compared to $139,000 for the same period in 2009. The decrease is primarily due to lower borrowings and a lower average borrowing rate in 2010 compared to 2009. For the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, the Companys expected effective income tax rate based on projected pre-tax income was 38.2% and 36.0%, respectively. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2010 is primarily due to state income taxes. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2009 was primarily due to state income taxes and various nondeductible expenses partially offset by the research and experimental tax credit. 15 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash provided by operations was $6.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to $738,000 for the same period in 2009. In 2010, cash was generated primarily by collections of accounts receivable and an increase in accrued expenses. In 2009, cash was generated by collection of accounts receivable partially offset by an increase in inventory and decreases in accounts payable and customer deposits. Cash used in investing activities was $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 versus $554,000 for the same period in 2009. In 2010, capital expenditures were $2.1 million and were primarily related to the Companys acquisition of certain technology components to compliment its next generation enterprise solution for its Restaurant business. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $128,000. In 2009, capital expenditures were $294,000 and were primarily for manufacturing, office and computer equipment. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $206,000 in 2009. Cash used in financing activities was $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 versus $1.4 million in 2009. In 2010, the Company decreased its short-term borrowings by $2 million, decreased its long-term debt by $332,000 and also benefited $238,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2009, the Company decreased its short-term borrowings by $1.1 million and decreased its long-term debt by $267,000. The Company has a credit agreement with a bank under which the Company has a borrowing availability up to $20 million in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.73% at March 31, 2010) or at the banks prime lending rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (3.25% at March 31, 2010). This agreement expires in June 2011. At March 31, 2010, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under this agreement. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 2.1% during the first quarter of 2010. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The Company is in compliance with these covenants at March 31, 2010. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. The Company borrowed $6 million under an unsecured term loan agreement, executed as an amendment to one of its then bank line of credit agreements, in connection with a prior business acquisition. The loan provides for interest only payments in the first year and escalating principal payments through 2012. The loan bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.73% at March 31, 2010) or at the banks prime lending rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (3.25% at March 31, 2010). The terms and conditions of the line of credit agreement described in the preceding paragraph also apply to the term loan. 16 Table of Contents The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement associated with the above $6 million loan, with principal and interest payments due through August 2012. At March 31, 2010, the notional principal amount totaled $3.9 million. This instrument was utilized by the Company to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility. The Company did not adopt hedge accounting, but rather records the fair market value adjustments through the consolidated statements of operations each period. The associated fair value adjustment for the three months ended March 31, 2010 was $21,000 and is included as a decrease to interest expense. The Company has a $1.6 million mortgage, collateralized by certain real estate. The annual mortgage payment including interest totals $222,000. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% and matures in 2019. During fiscal year 2010, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will be approximately $3 to $4 million. The Company does not enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and the actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure that additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. 17 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-6, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements, which requires interim disclosures regarding significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements. Additionally, this ASU requires disclosure for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. These disclosures are required for fair value measurements that fall in either Level 2 or Level 3. Further, the ASU requires separate presentation of Level 3 activity for the fair value measurements. The Company adopted the provisions of this standard on January 1, 2010, which did not have a material impact on its consolidated financia l statements. Critical Accounting Policies In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, we disclose accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of our critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.