ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect, and similar expressions. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to maintain our growth and profitability, our ability to attract and retain publishers, and our expectations concerning the advertising industry. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Overview We are an independent technology company seeking to maximize customer value by delivering digital advertisings supply chain of the future. Our technology platform empowers the worlds leading digital content creators (which we refer to as publishers) across the open internet to maximize monetization of their advertising inventory. Our platform also provides control and transparency to buyers, which includes advertisers, agencies, agency trading desks, and demand side platforms (DSPs), (which we collectively refer to as buyers) and enables both publishers and buyers to drive better business outcomes. Our infrastructure-driven approach allows for the efficient processing and utilization of data in real time. By delivering scalable and flexible programmatic innovation, we believe we improve outcomes for our customers while championing a vibrant and transparent digital advertising supply chain. We continue to focus on the strengths that we believe provide us with long-term competitive advantages. These strengths include our global, omnichannel reach which targets a diverse set of publishers touching many ad formats and digital device types, including mobile app, mobile web, desktop, display, video, over-the-top video/connected TV (OTT/CTV), and rich media. Additionally, as an independent infrastructure provider prioritizing transparency, we can be more closely aligned with both publishers and buyers which has enabled us to build direct relationships with publishers, advertisers, agencies, and DSPs and create bespoke products that meet our customers needs. We have also maintained a demonstrated track record of stability and agility to address these market conditions and provide superior outcomes for both publishers and buyers. Finally, we have designed our technology to efficiently process real-time advertising transactions while leveraging data to optimize outcomes for publishers and buyers. We own and operate our software and hardware infrastructure globally, which saves significant infrastructure expenditures as compared to public cloud alternatives. 18 Table of Contents Industry Trends and Macroeconomic Factors The digital advertising ecosystem continues to evolve and adapt at a rapid pace. Some noted trends include the continued growth of digital media across multiple platforms, a continued increase in the number of ad impressions processed and analyzed in real-time by each participant in the digital advertising ecosystem, and a desire for transparency and control throughout the supply chain from both the buyers and publishers. Additionally, rapidly evolving data and privacy regulations and industry standards continue to impact our business. For example, in April 2025, Google confirmed that it was abandoning its effort to deprecate the use of third-party cookies in Chrome and instead ask users to opt-in or opt-out of cookies in Chrome, which may impact the industrys anticipated shift to alternative identity solutions. Additionally, recent macroeconomic uncertainty, including adopted or proposed changes in the trade policies and tariff rates of the United States and international trade partners, slowing domestic growth, economic recession concerns, interest rate fluctuations, volatility in domestic and international equity and debt markets, foreign currency fluctuation and weakening of the U.S. Dollar, and persistent inflation in the U.S. and other markets globally, continue to create economic volatility and dislocation in the capital and credit markets in the U.S. and globally. To date, we have not observed material impacts in our business or outlook, but we intend to continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions closely and may determine to take certain financial or operational actions in response to such conditions to the extent our business begins to be adversely impacted. See Risk Factors in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 for further discussion of the risks related to inflation, volatile interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations and general macroeconomic uncertainty on our business. Business Highlights The table below summarizes the financial highlights of our business performance: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 63,825 $ 66,701 Operating loss $ (11,903) $ (5,525) Net loss $ (9,486) $ (2,454) Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 8,457 $ 15,056 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,621 $ 24,294 _______________ (1)For a definition of Adjusted EBITDA, an explanation of our managements use of this measure, and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, see Non-GAAP Financial Measure. 19 Table of Contents Our Strategy and Performance We believe our growth and financial performance are dependent on many factors, including those described below. Attract New Customers and Expand our Relationship with Existing Customers Globally We leverage our extensive platform capabilities and the subject matter expertise of our team members to grow revenue from our publishers and increase advertising spending from our buyers. Our sales and marketing team includes customer success pods to enhance customer knowledge and implementation of best practices. Once we onboard a new customer, we seek to expand our relationship with existing publishers by establishing multiple header bidding integrations by leveraging our omnichannel capabilities to maximize our access to publishers ad formats and devices, and expanding into the various properties that a publisher may own around the world. We may also up-sell additional products to publisher customers including our header bidding management, identity, and audience solutions. We automate workflow processes whenever feasible to drive predictable and value-added outcomes for our customers and increase productivity of our organization. Net dollar-based retention rate is an important indicator of publisher satisfaction and usage of our platform, as well as potential revenue for future periods. We calculate our net dollar-based retention rate at the end of each quarter for a cumulative twelve months. We calculate our net dollar-based retention rate by starting with the revenue from publishers in the prior trailing twelve-month period (Prior Period Revenue). We then calculate the revenue from these same publishers in the current trailing twelve-month period (Current Period Revenue). Current Period Revenue includes any upsells and is net of contraction or attrition, but excludes revenue from new publishers. Our net dollar-based retention rate equals the Current Period Revenue divided by Prior Period Revenue. Our net dollar-based retention rate was 102% for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2025 and 106% for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2024. Further, we work with DSPs to help them reduce their costs and improve advertiser ROI, which in turn makes us the specialized cloud infrastructure platform of choice for many of our buying partners. We depend upon a limited number of large DSPs for a large percentage of impressions purchased and our business results, including revenues, may be impacted by changes in their pricing strategies, bidding algorithms or go-to market efforts. As buyers increasingly consolidate their spending with fewer larger technology platforms, we seek to bring an increased proportion of their digital ad spending to our platform through direct deals. Supply Path Optimization (SPO) continues to be a major growth driver for us as we add new SPO relationships and expand existing ones. We have been investing in SPO technology and partnerships for over five years and SPO represented over 55% of total activity for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Monetization Excellence We focus on monetizing digital impressions by coordinating over a hundred billion real-time auctions and nearly a trillion bids globally on a daily basis, using our specialized cloud software, machine learning algorithms, and scaled transaction infrastructure. Valuable ad impressions are transparent and data rich, viewable by humans, and verifiable. Each ad impression we auction consists of 665 independent data parameters, which can yield valuable insights if recorded and analyzed properly. This processing of voluminous data for each ad impression must occur in less than half a second as consumers expect a seamless digital ad experience. We continually assess impressions from new and existing publishers through a rigorous validation process. We add or remove impressions from our platform based on an assessment of the projected value of the impressions, which is influenced by the type of publisher and its related consumers, as well as the potential volume of monetizable impressions and ad format types, such as digital video. We continuously create and iterate algorithms that leverage vast datasets flowing through our infrastructure to improve the liquidity in our marketplace. Our ability to drive successful outcomes in the real-time auction process on behalf of our publishers and buyers will affect our operating results. Infrastructure Platform Efficiency We have a track record of expanding the capacity of our infrastructure platform, while maintaining or reducing the corresponding costs related to processing impressions transacted on our platform on a per impression basis. We expect to continue to invest in both software and hardware infrastructure to continue growing the number of valuable ad impressions we process on our platform. Our recent growth has been driven by a variety of factors including increased access to mobile web (display and video) and mobile app (display and video) impressions and desktop video impressions. Our performance is affected by our ability to maintain and grow our access to valuable ad impressions from current publishers as well as through new relationships with publishers. In March 2025, our platform processed approximately 842 billion ad impressions daily, each in a fraction of a second. 20 Table of Contents Key Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from publishers who use our platform. We generate revenue primarily through fees charged to our publishers, which are generally a percentage of the value of the advertising impressions that publishers monetize on the platform. We also generate revenues from our other products such as OpenWrap, our header bidding solution, and Connect, our solution that provides additional data and insights to buyers, which are sold separate from or in conjunction with use of our platform. In 2023, we launched Activate, which allows buyers to execute direct deals on our platform with publisher inventory, and Convert, our commerce media solution. We report revenue on a net basis. This represents gross billings to buyers, net of amounts we pay publishers and rebates associated with SPO agreements with buyers. We record our accounts receivable at the amount of gross billings to buyers, net of allowances, for the amounts we are responsible to collect, and we record our accounts payable at the net amount payable to publishers. Accordingly, both accounts receivable and accounts payable appear large in relation to revenue, which is reported on a net basis. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of data center co-location costs, depreciation expense related to hardware supporting our platform, amortization expense related to capitalized internal-use software development costs, personnel costs, and allocated facilities costs. Personnel costs include salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefit costs, and are primarily attributable to our cloud operations group, which maintains our servers, and our client operations group, which is responsible for the integration of new publishers and buyers and providing customer support for existing customers. Operating Expenses Technology and Development. Technology and development expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefits costs, allocated facilities costs, and professional services. These expenses include costs incurred in the development, implementation and maintenance of internal-use software, including platform and related infrastructure. We expend technology and development costs as incurred, except to the extent that such costs are associated with internal-use software development that qualifies for capitalization. We expect technology and development expenses to generally increase in absolute dollars in future periods. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefits costs, for our employees engaged in sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer relationship functions. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to promotional, advertising and marketing activities, allocated facilities costs, travel, and entertainment primarily related to sales activity and professional services. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefits costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and other administrative employees. General and administrative expenses also include outside consulting, legal and accounting services, allocated facilities costs, and travel and entertainment primarily related to inter-office travel and conferences. Total Other Income (expense), Net Total other income (expense), net consists of interest income and other income (expense), net. Interest income is generated by investing excess cash into money market accounts and marketable securities. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of gains and losses from foreign currency exchange transactions. 21 Table of Contents Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes The provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Our provision for income taxes or income tax benefit may be significantly affected by changes to our estimates for tax in jurisdictions in which we operate and other estimates utilized in determining the global effective tax rate. Actual results may also differ from our estimates based on changes in economic conditions. Such changes could have a substantial impact on the income tax provision. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments, as appropriate, each reporting period. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due to state taxes, foreign tax rate differences, research tax credits, and stock-based compensation. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily on the generation of future taxable income. In considering the need for a valuation allowance, we consider our historical, as well as future projected, taxable income along with other objectively verifiable evidence. Objectively verifiable evidence includes our realization of tax attributes, assessment of tax credits, and utilization of net operating loss carryforwards during the year. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated results of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 63,825 $ 66,701 Cost of revenue(1) 25,588 25,424 Gross profit 38,237 41,277 Operating expenses(1): Technology and development 8,772 7,960 Sales and marketing 26,799 24,815 General and administrative 14,569 14,027 Total operating expenses 50,140 46,802 Operating loss (11,903) (5,525) Interest income 1,593 2,564 Other income (expense), net (1,014) 258 Loss before income taxes (11,324) (2,703) Benefit from income taxes (1,838) (249) Net loss $ (9,486) $ (2,454) _______________ (1)Amounts include stock-based compensation expense before tax benefit as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 474 $ 437 Technology and development 1,585 1,441 Sales and marketing 3,463 3,238 General and administrative 4,176 3,995 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 9,698 $ 9,111 23 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as percentage of revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 40 38 Gross profit 60 62 Operating expenses: Technology and development 14 12 Sales and marketing 42 37 General and administrative 23 21 Total operating expenses 79 70 Operating loss (19) (8) Interest income 2 4 Other income (expense), net (1) Loss before income taxes (18) (4) Benefit from income taxes (3) Net loss (15) % (4) % Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 63,825 $ 66,701 $ (2,876) (4) % Cost of revenue 25,588 25,424 164 1 % Gross profit $ 38,237 $ 41,277 $ (3,040) (7) % Gross profit margin 60 % 62 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased by $2.9 million, or 4%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Our revenues were primarily driven by impressions processed on our platform, new revenue streams, and growth in customer relationships. These were negatively impacted by bidding methodology changes implemented by one of our buyers in 2024 resulting in a year over year decline in revenues. As of March 31, 2025, we served approximately 1,950 publishers and app developers worldwide on our platform, compared to approximately 1,800 publishers and app developers worldwide as of March 31, 2024. For purposes of our publisher count, we aggregate multiple business accounts from separate divisions, segments or subsidiaries into a single master publisher based on our assessment of the related nature of the group. We expect our revenues to be affected by macroeconomic conditions for the remainder of 2025, and will continue to be impacted by the bidding methodology changes implemented by one of our buyers in the near term. The magnitude of these impacts on our future revenues is difficult to predict. Cost of revenue increased $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in depreciation and amortization, offset by a $0.4 million decrease in personnel costs. Overall, our cost of revenue per million impressions processed for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased by approximately 22% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Our gross margin of 60% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased compared to 62% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily due to a decrease in revenue. We expect the cost of revenue to be higher in 2025 compared to 2024 in absolute dollars as we continue to expand our capacity to process impressions. Cost of revenue may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and period to period, on an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of revenue, depending on revenue levels and the volume of transactions we process supporting those revenues, and the timing and amounts of depreciation and amortization of equipment and software. 24 Table of Contents Technology and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Technology and development $ 8,772 $ 7,960 $ 812 10 % Percent of revenue 14 % 12 % The increase in technology and development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million in personnel costs as headcount increased, partially offset by an increase of $0.2 million related to the capitalization of internal-use software. We expect technology and development expenses to continue to increase in 2025 compared to 2024 in absolute dollars, primarily due to additional headcount and investment in technological innovation. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 26,799 $ 24,815 $ 1,984 8 % Percent of revenue 42 % 37 % Sales and marketing costs for the three months ended March 31, 2025 increased primarily due to a $0.9 million increase in personnel costs and a $0.9 million increase in travel and entertainment costs. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in 2025 compared to 2024 in absolute dollars primarily due to additional headcount investments. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 14,569 $ 14,027 $ 542 4 % Percent of revenue 23 % 21 % General and administrative expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 primarily due to a $0.4 million increase in personnel costs. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in 2025 compared to 2024 in absolute dollars primarily due to employee compensation. Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 1,593 $ 2,564 $ (971) (38) % Interest income decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the prior year period due to a decrease in the Companys interest-bearing securities investments. Other Income (Expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ (1,014) $ 258 $ (1,272) (493) % Other income (expense), net decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. 25 Table of Contents Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Benefit from income taxes $ (1,838) $ (249) $ (1,589) 638 % The difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2025 of 16% and the federal statutory income tax rate of 21% was related to tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income (FDII), research tax credits and deductions for equity awards, partially offset by nondeductible stock-based compensation, and Section 162(m) limitation on the tax deductibility of officers' compensation. The effective income tax rate of 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was related to the tax benefit from FDII, research tax credits, and deductions for equity awards, partially offset by nondeductible stock-based compensation and Section 162(m) limitation on the tax deductibility of officers compensation. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including, in particular, operating loss, net cash provided by operating activities, and net income (loss), we believe that Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, interest income, and provision for (benefit from) income taxes. The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net loss $ (9,486) $ (2,454) Add back (deduct): Stock-based compensation 9,698 9,111 Depreciation and amortization 11,676 11,212 Interest income (1,593) (2,564) Benefit from income taxes (1,838) (249) Adjusted EBITDA $ 8,457 $ 15,056 Although Adjusted EBITDA is used by many investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, it has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. 26 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through utilization of cash generated from operations as well as sales of equity securities. As of March 31, 2025, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $144.1 million and net working capital, consisting of current assets less current liabilities, of $155.1 million. Our principal uses of cash are funding our operations and other working capital requirements. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and anticipated net cash provided by operating activities, together with available borrowings under our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if our operating performance during the next 12 months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. As of March 31, 2025, our material cash requirements included the contractual commitments set forth under Contractual Obligations and Future Cash Requirements. In February 2023, our board of directors authorized the 2023 Repurchase Program which was to terminate as of December 31, 2024 (as amended, the 2023 Repurchase Program). In February 2024, our board of directors authorized an additional $100.0 million for repurchases under the 2023 Repurchase Program, and extended the termination date to December 31, 2024 (the 2024 Repurchase Program Extension). During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we repurchased 339,000 shares of Class A common stock under the 2023 Repurchase Program for an aggregate purchase price of $3.6 million. As of March 31, 2025, $36.8 million remained available for future share repurchases under the 2023 Repurchase Program. In the future, we may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or through equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional financing by incurring additional indebtedness, we may be subject to increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that could be unfavorable to equity investors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to raise capital could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. The global advertising industry experiences seasonal trends that affect the vast majority of participants in the digital advertising ecosystem. Most notably, advertisers have historically spent relatively more in the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with the holiday shopping season, and relatively less in the first quarter. We expect seasonality trends to continue, thereby resulting in seasonality in our revenues and corresponding accounts receivable and accounts payable balances, and our ability to manage our resources in anticipation of these trends will affect our operating results. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,621 $ 24,294 Net cash used in investing activities (10,069) (3,868) Net cash used in financing activities (4,472) (18,741) Effect of foreign currency on cash 279 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,359 $ 1,685 Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by growth in our operations, increases or decreases in collections from our buyers and related payments to our publishers, as well as our investment in personnel to support the anticipated growth of our business. Cash flows from operating activities have been affected by changes in our working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable. The timing of cash receipts from buyers and payments to publishers can significantly impact our cash flows from operating activities. For example, we noted an impact to our operating cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2025 as a result of shifts in spend from one of our large DSPs. In addition, we expect seasonality to impact quarterly cash flows from operating activities. 27 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities of $15.6 million resulted primarily from adjustments for non-cash expenses of $17.9 million, including $11.7 million for depreciation and amortization and $9.7 million for stock-based compensation, a decrease in accounts receivable of $75.7 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of$5.7 million, offset by a net loss of $9.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable of$62.6 million, and a decrease in accrued liabilities of$11.3 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities of $24.3 million resulted primarily from adjustments for non-cash expenses of $16.1 million, including $11.2 million for depreciation and amortization and $9.1 million for stock-based compensation, a decrease in accounts receivable of$72.2 million, offset by a net loss of $2.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $58.4 million, and a decrease in accrued liabilities of$1.8 million. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily included investments in marketable securities, purchases of equipment as we expanded the infrastructure in our third-party data centers, and capitalized internal-use software costs in support of enhancing our platform. Purchases of property and equipment may vary from period-to-period due to the timing of the expansion of our data centers, the addition of headcount, and the development cycles of our software development. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we used $10.1 million in investing activities, consisting of $1.4 million in purchases of property and equipment (primarily data center infrastructure), and $6.9 million of investments in capitalized internal-use software, and a net increase in investments of marketable securities of $1.7 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we used $3.9 million in investing activities, consisting of $0.8 million in purchases of property and equipment (primarily data center infrastructure), and $7.2 million of investments in capitalized internal-use software, and a net decrease in investments of marketable securities of $4.2 million. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in financing activities of $4.5 million was primarily due to purchases of treasury stock of $5.0 million, including the prepayment of funds for future purchases of approximately $1.4 million, offset by proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $0.6 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities of $18.7 million was primarily due to purchases of treasury stock of $17.5 million, including the prepayment of funds for future purchases of approximately $1.8 million, and payment of a business combination indemnification holdback of $2.1 million, offset by proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $0.9 million. Contractual Obligations and Future Cash Requirements Our principal contractual obligations consist of non-cancelable leases for our various facilities. In certain cases, the terms of the lease agreements provide for rental payments that increase over time. There were no material changes to our contractual obligations disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. As of March 31, 2025, we had $5.3 million of long-term income tax liabilities, including interest, related to uncertain tax positions. Because of the high degree of uncertainty regarding the settlement of these liabilities, we are unable to estimate the years in which future cash outflows may occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities, and reported amounts of revenue and expenses. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, and adjust those estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results could materially differ from these estimates and assumptions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. 28 Table of Contents