Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial and operating results; our ability to maintain our growth and profitability; our ability to attract and retain publishers and expand the utilization of our buyers; our ability to maintain a consistent supply of quality advertising inventory; our ability to maintain our competitive technological advantages against competitors in our industry; our expectations concerning the advertising industry, including the impact of macroeconomic conditions, inflation and rising interest rates; our ability to introduce new offerings and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; our ability to continue to expand internationally; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies or technologies; and our ability to comply with evolving legal and industry standards and regulations, particularly concerning data protection and consumer privacy. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents that we reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), with the understanding that our actual future results, performance, and circumstances may be materially different from what we expect. Unless otherwise indicated, the terms PubMatic, we, us, and our refer to PubMatic, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. 1 Table of Contents MARKET AND INDUSTRY DATA Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K concerning our industry and the markets in which we operate is based on information we obtained from industry publications and third-party research, surveys and studies, as well as assumptions that we have made that are based on that data and on our knowledge of the markets for our products and services. This information involves important assumptions and limitations, and are necessarily subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those described in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains our trade names, trademarks, and service marks, including the PubMatic name and logo, and all product names. This Annual Report on Form 10-K may also contain the trade names, trademarks, and service marks of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names, trademarks, or service marks to imply a relationship with these other companies, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by these other companies. Other trademarks appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders. 2 Table of Contents SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the principal risks described below in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that the risks described in the Risk Factors section are material to investors, but other factors not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect us. The following summary should not be considered an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing us, and it should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the overall demand for advertising. If our existing customers do not expand their usage of our platform, or if we fail to attract new publishers and buyers, our growth will suffer. Moreover, any decrease in the use of the advertising channels that we primarily depend on, or failure to expand into emerging channels, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors. If we fail to make the right investment decisions in our platform, or if we fail to innovate and develop new solutions that are adopted by publishers, we may not attract and retain publishers and buyers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We must scale our platform infrastructure to support anticipated growth and transaction volume. If we fail to do so, or doing so becomes too costly, we may limit our ability to process ad impressions, and we may lose revenue. Our efforts to provide new or expanded offerings may not be successful, or we may not be able to scale our offerings to meet demand in a timely manner, and, as a result, we may not realize a return from our investments. The rejection of digital advertising by consumers, through opt-in, opt-out or ad-blocking technologies or other means or the restriction on the use of third party-cookies, mobile device identifiers or other tracking technologies, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The disabling of third-party cookies, and the potential of others to develop proprietary replacements for cookies, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business depends on our ability to collect, use, and disclose data to deliver advertisements. Any limitation imposed on our collection, use or disclosure of this data could significantly diminish the value of our solution and cause us to lose publishers, buyers, and revenue. Consumer tools, regulatory restrictions and technological limitations all threaten our ability to use and disclose data. If publishers, buyers, and data providers do not obtain necessary and requisite consents from consumers for us to process their personal data, we could be subject to fines and liability. The digital advertising industry is intensely competitive, and if we do not effectively compete against current and future competitors, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Market pressure may reduce our revenue per impression. Seasonal fluctuations or market changes in digital advertising activity could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If ad formats and digital device types develop in ways that prevent advertisements from being delivered to consumers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we fail to detect or prevent fraud on our platform, or malware intrusion into the systems or devices of our publishers and their consumers, publishers could lose confidence in our platform, and we could face legal claims. Our success depends on our ability to retain key members of our management team, and on our ability to hire, train, retain, and motivate new employees. We are subject to payment-related risks if demand-side platform (DSP) buyers dispute or do not pay their invoices, and if DSPs file for bankruptcy protection or there are any decreases in payments, it could adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition Our international operations subject us to additional costs and risks, and our continued international expansion may not be successful. Our use and reliance upon technology and development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs and liabilities, which could affect our ability to realize cost savings from our operations in India. We depend on third-party data centers, the disruption of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 3 Table of Contents Platform outages or disruptions, including due to cyberattacks or our failure to maintain adequate security and supporting infrastructure, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our software platform could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our continued business success depends upon our ability to offer high-quality inventory with appropriate viewability capabilities. Future acquisitions or strategic investments could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of management, and could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on publishers, buyers, and partners to abide by contractual requirements and relevant laws, rules, and regulations when using our platform, and legal claims or enforcement actions resulting from their actions could expose us to liabilities, damage our reputation, and be costly to defend. We are subject to frequently evolving laws, regulations and industry requirements related to data privacy, data protection, information security, and consumer protection across the markets we operate in. Legal uncertainty and industry unpreparedness for new regulations may mean substantial disruption and inefficiency, demand constraints, and reduced inventory supply and value. Recent rulings from the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated the EU-US Privacy Shield as a lawful means for transferring personal data from the European Union to the United States; this introduces increased uncertainty and may require us to change our EU data practices and/or rely on an alternative legally sufficient compliance measure. Our failure or the failure of third parties to protect our sites, networks and systems against security breaches, or otherwise to protect our confidential information, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages, and could limit our ability to use technology or intellectual property. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult to enforce and protect, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our technology without compensating us, thereby eroding our competitive advantages and having an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on licenses to use the intellectual property rights of third parties to conduct our business. Our platform relies on third-party open source software components. Failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could expose us to liabilities, and the combination of open source software with code that we develop could compromise the proprietary nature of our platform. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements and other disclosures on a timely basis could be impaired. Our credit agreement contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities. Our tax liabilities may be greater than anticipated. Tax changes could affect our effective tax rate and future profitability. The trading price of the shares of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and could subject us to litigation. Insiders have substantial control over our company, including as a result of the dual class structure of our common stock, which could limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters, including the election of directors and the approval of any change of control transaction. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview PubMatic, Inc. (we, or us) is an independent technology company seeking to maximize customer value by delivering digital advertisings supply chain of the future. Our mission is to fuel the endless potential of Internet content creators. Our integrated technology platform empowers the worlds leading digital content creators (which we collectively refer to as publishers) across the open internet to maximize monetization of their advertising inventory. Our platform also provides control and transparency to buyers, which includes advertisers, agencies, agency trading desks, and demand side platforms (DSPs) (which we collectively refer to as buyers) and enables both publishers and buyers to drive better business outcomes. Our Industry As the digital advertising ecosystem continues to evolve, some key industry trends include: Continued Growth of Digital Media Across Multiple Platforms: Consumers have dramatically increased the amount of time they spend online, on mobile devices, or watching content through connected television. Numerous activities that historically occurred offline continue to shift online. To better reach consumers, every major media format has transitioned or is in the process of transitioning content from traditional or analog means of delivery to digital across every media channel and device. In addition, digital advertising continues to evolve into new areas such as commerce media, which creates new opportunities for growth. Automation and Data Processing: The challenges of scale and the complexity of the digital advertising ecosystem require an automated, fast, and efficient approach to purchasing ads online, known as programmatic advertising. Programmatic advertising, on an automated basis, enables buyers to purchase ad impressions on publisher supplied inventory within milliseconds in a sophisticated, technology-driven marketplace. With header bidding, which enables a single parallel auction by a publisher with multiple interested parties simultaneously, the industry has seen a significant increase in the number of ad impressions that need to be processed and analyzed in real-time by each participant in the digital advertising ecosystem. As consumers increasingly engage with digital media, and as advertisers bid on a growing array of ad formats and impressions, an immense amount of data is generated. This data includes anonymized consumer information about interests and intent, log files of winning and losing advertiser bids, and transaction records for billing and payment reconciliation. Technology infrastructure platforms must rapidly process this data while offering a seamless digital ad experience for consumers. Companies must continue to innovate and find efficiencies in their data processing, including through the use of machine learning and artificial intelligence, to maintain pace with growing volumes of transactions to maintain profitability. Consolidation and Convergence of the Sell Side and Buy Side Technology Platforms: As advertisers increase the percentage of their overall advertising budgets spent on digital formats, they are increasingly demanding greater efficiency and control of their entire digital advertising supply chain. Efficiency includes reducing operational costs, increasing the simplicity of the buying process, and increasing the return on ad spend or investment. Control refers to the buyer determining which media, content, or consumer their ad spend is being invested with to avoid appearing next to content that reflects poorly on the advertisers brand or purchasing fraudulent or fake inventory. This desire for efficiency and control has led to a growing trend among advertisers to establish direct relationships with vendors in the digital advertising ecosystem that have transparent business practices and technical capabilities to meet their objectives. Additionally, buyers are increasingly interested in adopting integrated solutions on one platform that provides both demand side and sell side functionality, to deliver on their efficiency and control objectives. This has resulted in a larger portion of media spend consolidating onto fewer, more capable technology platforms. Data Privacy and Regulatory Challenges: There is an increasing awareness of how Internet user data is being leveraged to target ads, resulting in a growing number of privacy laws and regulations. In addition to governmental actors, including legislatures and regulatory agencies, there have also been a growing number of consumer-focused non-profit organizations and commercial entities advocating for privacy rights. These laws and institutions enable Internet consumers to assert their rights over the use of their online data in advertising transactions, a trend which we support. The digital advertising landscape must continue to adapt to these trends and incorporate awareness of consumer privacy and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 5 Table of Contents In addition, several companies have greatly limited the use of third-party cookies and other non-privacy safe identifiers. We believe the Open Internet outside the walled gardens (a colloquial term that refers to closed advertising platforms such as Google and Facebook) will shift from targeting by anonymized and invisible third-party cookies or identifiers to known identities based on consumer choice and opt-in. We expect this shift towards significantly more reliable and accurate consumer identity will create short term disruption but could have the potential to significantly increase advertiser return on investment (ROI) and therefore publisher revenue in the long run. Our Digital Advertising Solutions We generate revenue from the use of our platform for the purchase and sale of digital advertising inventory. We primarily work with publishers and app developers who allow us direct access to their ad inventory, as well as select channel partners that meet our quality and scale thresholds. Our channel partners aggregate and provide further access to thousands of sites and apps from smaller publishers. We generate revenue through fees charged to our publishers, which are generally a percentage of the value of the advertising impressions that publishers monetize on our platform. We also generate revenues from our other products such as OpenWrap, our header bidding solution, and Connect, our solution that provides additional data and insights to buyers, which are sold separate from or in conjunction with use of our platform. We continue to invest in new features for our existing solutions and new solutions such as our new product Activate, which allows buyers to execute direct deals on our platform across publisher inventory, and Convert, our commerce media solution, both of which were launched in 2023. We also enter into written service agreements with our buyers, primarily DSPs, that allow them to use our platform to buy ad inventory. Two of our largest DSP relationships are with Google and The Trade Desk. We are party to an agreement with Google LLC, under which Google is a buyer on our platform. The initial one-year term of the current agreement ended in May 2019, and it automatically renews for successive one-year terms unless either party provides written notice at least 60 days prior to the end of the initial term or such successive terms. Either party may terminate for convenience upon providing at least 30 days prior written notice. We signed a prior similar agreement with a Google subsidiary in 2012. We are also party to an agreement with The Trade Desk, Inc., under which The Trade Desk is a buyer on our platform. The initial term of the agreement ended in November 2013, and it automatically renews for successive one-year terms. Either party may terminate for convenience upon providing at least 30 days prior written notice. Digital advertising spending has historically been subject to seasonality. For example, digital advertisers tend to devote a large portion of their budgets to campaigns in the fourth quarter of the year, to coincide with consumer holiday spending, and then have a significantly smaller advertising budget in the first calendar quarter. Pricing of digital ad impressions in the fourth quarter is likely to be higher due to increased demand, while those same impressions may be priced lower in other quarters. Our Competitive Advantage Publishers are actively seeking to maximize the value of their ad inventory, and buyers are seeking to increase advertising ROI. We believe that our specialized cloud platform, supported by rapid innovation, and transparent business model provide incentives to buyers to consolidate an increasing share of their total digital spend on our platform. At the same time, we believe our direct publisher relationships, omnichannel header bidding capabilities, global scale, and access to incremental advertiser demand through direct relationships with buyers drive superior yield for publishers. We believe the following strengths provide us with long-term competitive advantages: Global, Omnichannel Reach: We are a global business with distributed critical infrastructure and a go-to-market presence in every major advertising market in the world outside of China. Many of our publisher customers have diversified businesses with media properties and audiences across the globe and with a wide variety of ad products, including display and video ads across desktop, tablet, mobile, and connected TV devices. Similarly, many of our advertiser and agency customers have brand portfolios that span the globe with a variety of ad campaign requirements from branding to performance, to combinations thereof. All of these parties actively seek global, omnichannel platform providers that can solve for their needs around the world and across ad formats and devices. Our offering is omnichannel and targets a diverse set of publishers touching many ad formats, and digital device types, including mobile app, mobile web, desktop, display, video, over-the-top video/connected TV (OTT/CTV), and rich media. Due to the global, omnichannel reach of our infrastructure, we believe we are well positioned to help publishers and ad buyers make their advertising businesses more efficient and effective. 6 Table of Contents Customer Control and Partnership: Due to our status as an independent infrastructure provider prioritizing transparency, we can be more closely aligned with both publishers and buyers. We do not own media and therefore do not have a vested interest in driving ad revenue to specific media properties. We do not take a position in media or arbitrage media. Transparency is a fundamental principle of our business and we provide detailed insights into fees to our customers. Our customers can therefore be more confident that our algorithmic software decisions and our guidance are independent and unbiased. Our trusted status has enabled us to build direct relationships with publishers, advertisers, agencies, and DSPs. Leveraging these relationships, we create bespoke products that meet our customers needs. Our ability to meet the demands of both buyers and inventory sellers enables us to produce superior outcomes for all industry participants. Sustained Innovation of our Cloud Platform: Our specialized cloud platform enables real-time programmatic advertising transactions in a market characterized by significant data and impression volumes, regulatory complexity, and increased focus on transparency and privacy. We have maintained a demonstrated track record of stability and agility to address these market conditions and provide superior outcomes for both publishers and buyers. Additionally, we own and operate our proprietary software and hardware infrastructure around the world. This approach saves significant costs compared to companies that rely on public cloud alternatives due to the data-intensive nature of digital advertising and the immense volume of ad impressions created by header bidding. Growth Strategy We believe we are positioned to benefit from tailwinds in the advertising industry, including the rapid proliferation of digital media, the need for purpose-built infrastructure to address the increasing complexity in the digital advertising landscape, and increasing consumer time spent online. Our growth strategy includes: Attract New Customers and Expand our Relationship with Existing Customers Globally: We constantly seek to acquire new customers and retain our relationships with existing publishers and buyers around the world. We invest in continued innovation based on the ever-changing market. We utilize customer feedback to help address the demands of publishers and buyers in order to maintain and improve our relationships with those customers. We are constantly evaluating new markets with a strategy to use our existing global infrastructure and adjacent sales offices, or by expanding our infrastructure footprint and placing personnel directly in those markets. Expansion of SPO Agreements and Activate: As advertisers and agencies increasingly consolidate their spending with fewer larger technology platforms, we seek to increase the proportion of their digital ad spending on our platform through direct relationships. We have entered into supply path optimization (SPO) agreements directly with both advertisers and agencies through various arrangements including custom data and workflow integrations, product features, and volume-based business terms. The effect of these SPO agreements is to increase the volume of ad spend on our platform without corresponding increases in technology costs. Additionally we believe our Activate platform provides buyers with the transparency and reporting demands of the buyers and a more efficient, programmatic way to access publisher inventory. Expansion of Video and Mobile: We see significant growth opportunities in both video and mobile as consumers shift more of their time online to mobile devices and online streaming services. For example, as streaming video continues to expand and ad-supported models become more prevalent, we expect advertising budgets will shift from linear television to CTV. Monetization Excellence: We strive to continuously improve publisher revenue and advertiser ROI by investing in our technology and improving our machine learning capabilities. We leverage our artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities, alongside our growing publisher and buyer relationships, to improve liquidity in our marketplace. Increasing numbers of ad impressions, increasing advertiser bids, and data proliferation provide us with many opportunities to better match sellers and buyers of ad inventory. We believe that improved matching will lead to the growth of our platform and greater publisher and buyer retention. Accelerate New Revenue Streams: As we grow our customer base and process increasing volumes of ad impressions and data, we gain insights into new challenges we can solve on behalf of our customers. We focus on creating new products that we believe address our customers needs, at times before the customer is aware of such need. For example, the Open Internet continues to shift from targeting by anonymized and invisible third-party cookies that consumers must opt out of, towards known first-party identity based on consumer choice and opt-in or other privacy compliant solutions. As a result, publishers and advertisers must transition to a new identity paradigm. We have built a comprehensive platform that allows for the use of many of the leading identifiers in a scaled and privacy-compliant fashion resulting in increased publisher revenue and buyer ROI. We will continue to invest in our go to market efforts to sell these new offerings such as Connect, Activate and Convert, which drives new revenues streams, and have begun to shift customers from a free to fee model for existing solutions such as OpenWrap. 7 Table of Contents Infrastructure Platform Efficiency: We have a track record of expanding the capacity of our infrastructure platform, while maintaining or reducing the corresponding costs related to processing impressions transacted on our platform on a per impressions basis. We expect to continue to invest in both software and hardware infrastructure to continue growing the number of valuable ad impressions we process on our platform. Additionally, we analyze the data on our platform through extensive application of artificial intelligence technologies, including machine learning and natural language processing. By leveraging our artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities we are able to more cost effectively improve outcomes for our customers. For example, when our machine learning models predict that an impression will attract high bids, our algorithms adjust pricing guidance to bidders in real time, which can lead to significant inventory yield improvements for publishers and higher win rates for ad buyers. Our ability to accurately predict and monetize high value impressions also allows us to operate more efficiently, due to the fact that the cost of processing low-value impressions and high-value impressions are approximately the same. Our algorithms, such as for impression throttling, deploy a variety of means to optimize traffic sent to DSPs, agencies, and advertisers. Regulatory Compliance: A growing set of privacy regulations have introduced complexity regarding the collection, use, and transmission of consumer data to the digital advertising ecosystem. Most notably, these include the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) which took effect in the European Union in May 2018, and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA) which took effect in January 2020 and was later amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA), with those amendments taking effect in January 2023. The GDPR and the CCPA, as well as other global and U.S. state consumer privacy laws and regulations, have created a compliance burden for advertisers, publishers, and their partners to navigate. The advertising industry has developed a number of the technical and policy solutions to create standards for compliance, such as the Interactive Advertising Bureau (the IAB) Transparency Consent Framework (TCF). We have implemented a number of technology innovations, process enhancements, and industry solutions in response to our publishers increased obligations. Through the TCF and other frameworks, we can identify and pass user consent parameters, and opt-in or opt-out as applicable, in a bid request. We are also able to evaluate whether such consents apply to our various demand partners, such as DSPs and agencies. Our Technology We have designed our technology to efficiently process real-time advertising transactions while leveraging data to optimize outcomes for publishers and buyers. We own and operate our software and hardware infrastructure globally, which saves significant infrastructure expenditures as compared to public cloud alternatives. We designed our platform using a flexible, service-oriented architecture in order to facilitate rapid development of new solutions, to meet evolving industry demands, and to support new use cases and new ad formats. Our agile development process and flexible, service-oriented architecture empower our development teams to routinely convert a requirement into working software within a typical time frame of two weeks or less. We offer our solution as a complete, unified offering for publishers who want a simple, efficient and comprehensive solution. We also offer modular access to our platform via rich application programming interfaces and a mobile software developer kit for mobile applications (SDK), for publishers who wish to integrate with or extend the platform or develop new business models and custom advertising solutions. Some key benefits of our platform to publishers and buyers include: Scalability: Our specialized cloud infrastructure is designed for the rapid and efficient processing of real-time, programmatic ad transactions and the aggregation and analysis of the significant data accompanying each transaction. The hundreds of billions of ad impressions and trillion advertiser bids that we process every day generate enormous volumes of data that we harness to drive higher revenue for our publishers and increased ROI for our buyers. Transparency: We provide log-level data to buyers and provide transparency on every ad impression, which gives buyers full control over which publishers, ad formats, and specific ad impressions on which they would like to bid. Built in Quality Controls: We have developed a multi-pronged strategy to create a high-quality marketplace beginning with high quality publisher selection, supported by proprietary and third-party fraud detection software, manual review, timely fraud investigations, and a fraud-free program in which buyers are credited for any fraudulent inventory they may have purchased on our platform. 8 Table of Contents Data Driven Decisions: We leverage our artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities to record, aggregate, analyze, and act on vast amounts of data in a matter of milliseconds to help our customers optimize their digital advertising businesses in real-time. This data includes first party customer owned audience data, ad impression and bid request data, and advertiser bid response data. We flow all of this data through our machine learning platform in order to run thousands of algorithmic iterations on trillions of data points per month. These capabilities improve long term marketplace liquidity resulting in increased publisher revenue and higher advertiser ROI. Self-Serve: Our cloud infrastructure solutions are available via self-serve to publishers and buyers, including an easy-to-use customer user interface and a set of application programming interfaces that allow our publisher customers to configure new inventory, extend into new geographies or ad formats, review reporting insights, and manage and track payments and billing cycles. Reporting: Our technology platform provides extensive reporting capabilities to both buyers and publishers via application programming interfaces for direct integration into a customers reporting systems. Publishers are able to review performance, monitor key performance indicators (KPIs), and make adjustments to their set up and optimization in real time. Buyers have access to campaign insight data to facilitate testing and adaptation toward maximizing ROI. Detailed performance by ad format, channels, and ad sizes allows for optimization to achieve maximum ROI. Sales and Marketing We primarily deploy a self-service model and focus our sales and marketing efforts on supporting, advising, and training our publishers to optimize their usage of our platform. We employ a nimble in-market sales team with expertise in programmatic advertising to attract premium publishers to our platform. We have dedicated teams focused on new publisher acquisition and existing publisher relationship management. New publishers on our platform work closely with our Customer Success team, which handles on-boarding and providing support throughout the publisher relationship life cycle. Our Customer Success team is organized and specialized by type of ad format and device and is trained to both maximize the number of integrations with each publisher and deploy the value-added solutions that we provide. Similarly, we have teams focused on new business acquisition and existing partner retention and expansion for advertisers, agencies, and DSPs. These teams focus on onboarding new partners and increasing spend across a variety of ad formats, devices, and geographies. Our marketing team is focused on achieving thought leadership, educating customers on how to harness programmatic advertising to improve their business, guiding buyers on how to maximize ROI via the PubMatic cloud infrastructure, supporting our sales team, generating new leads, and increasing awareness for our brand. Our Competition The digital advertising ecosystem is competitive and complex due to a variety of factors. While programmatic header bidding has enabled the purchasing and selling of vast amounts of digital advertising inventory, there now exist significant challenges related to the proliferation of media across platforms, transaction speed, increased costs, transparency, and regulatory requirements. To address these issues at scale for both publishers and buyers, we provide specialized software and hardware infrastructure to optimally power technology-driven transactions. We compete with other large SSPs, smaller private SSPs in markets around the world, and divisions of larger technology companies. While there is direct competition, our cloud infrastructure is interoperable with the major header bidding software frameworks including open source Prebid, Googles Open Bidding, Amazons Transparent Ad Marketplace, and others. We have also demonstrated an ability to extend our header bidding infrastructure into a variety of higher-growth ad formats such as mobile web, mobile app, digital video, and most recently OTT/CTV. We believe that our specialized platform and cloud infrastructure enable us to compete favorably on the factors described above. In addition, we believe that new market entrants would find it difficult to gain direct access to publishers and ad buyers given their limited scale and face significant costs to integrate with publishers and ad buyers and comply with evolving regulatory requirements around the world. Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal and state statutory and common law rights, foreign laws where applicable, and contractual restrictions. We seek to control access to our proprietary technology by entering into non-disclosure agreements with third parties and disclosure and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors. 9 Table of Contents We consider our trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights to be, in the aggregate, material to our business. We currently own two issued U.S. patents, expiring in 2034, relating to online advertising and auction techniques. We also own one issued Japanese patent. We also own trademark registrations and applications for the PubMatic name and variants thereof and other product-related marks in the United States and certain foreign countries. We have also registered numerous Internet domain names related to our business. We believe our platform would be difficult, time consuming, and costly to replicate. We intend to pursue additional intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries where our products are distributed may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Privacy and Data We are subject to laws and regulations governing privacy and the transmission, collection, and use of personal data. Interest-based advertising, or the use of data to draw inferences about a consumers interests and deliver relevant advertising to that consumer, has come under increasing scrutiny by legislatures, regulatory agencies, and self-regulatory bodies, privacy advocates, academics, and commercial interests in the United States and abroad that focus on data protection and consumer privacy. In particular, much of this scrutiny has focused on the use of cookies and other tracking technologies that collect or aggregate information about consumers online browsing and mobile app usage activity. Because both our company and our publishers rely upon large volumes of such data collected primarily through cookies and other tracking technologies, it is essential that we monitor legal requirements and other developments in this area, domestically and globally, maintain a robust privacy and security compliance program, and engage in responsible privacy practices, including providing consumers with notice of the types of data we collect, how we collect it, with whom we share it, how we use that data to provide our solutions, and the applicable choices we offer consumers. We provide notice through our privacy policies and notices, which can be found on our website at www.pubmatic.com. We do not collect information, such as names, addresses or telephone phone numbers, for providing our advertising services that are directly identifying of the underlying individual. We take steps not to collect and store such information (although on occasion, our publishers voluntarily share information of their consumers with us and in such circumstances, we require the publishers to have obtained all necessary consents for such sharing). Our advertising and reporting rely on information that does not, on its own, directly reveal the identity of the underlying individuals (and we do not attempt to associate this information with other information that can identify such individuals). We typically do collect and store IP addresses, geo-location information, and device identifiers that are considered personal data or personal information under the privacy laws of some jurisdictions or otherwise may be the subject of current or future data privacy legislation or regulation. The definition of personally identifiable information, personal information, or personal data, varies by jurisdiction and continues to evolve in ways that may require us to adapt our practices to avoid violating laws or regulations related to the collection, storage, and use of consumer data. As a result, our technology platform and business practices must be assessed regularly against a continuously evolving legal and regulatory landscape, and we have adopted data minimization practices that mitigate our compliance risks. There are also a number of specific laws and regulations governing the collection and use of certain types of consumer data relevant to our business. For example, the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) imposes restrictions on the collection and use of data provided by children under the age of 13 by child-directed websites or online services, such as apps, directed to children or any website if the collection of such data is known to the website or app operator. We have taken various steps to implement a system in which our publishers are contractually obligated to either flag or notify us in writing of child-directed websites. When websites are flagged, or we receive notice of such websites, we do not collect personal information, as defined by COPPA, including cookie identifiers that can recognize the same consumer across multiple sites over time, or location information more specific than street and city, on such websites or online services. Additionally, our compliance with our privacy policy and our general consumer data privacy and security practices are subject to review by the Federal Trade Commission, which may bring enforcement actions to challenge allegedly unfair and deceptive trade practices, including the violation of privacy policies and representations or material omissions therein. 10 Table of Contents Certain State Attorneys General in the United States may also bring enforcement actions based on comparable state laws or federal laws that permit state-level enforcement. In California, for example, the Attorney General of the newly created California Privacy Protection Agency (CPPA, which is charged with CCPA rule-making and enforcement) may bring regulatory actions for violations of the CCPA. We have registered as a data broker in California with the California Attorney General. . We have also adopted the IAB CCPA Compliance Framework, which includes a technical specification to identify consumer signals to opt-out of sale of their data, and have signed the IAB Limited Service Provider Agreement that imposes service provider obligations for certain opted-out bid requests. These IAB frameworks are designed to facilitate compliance with the CCPA although neither the California Attorney Generals office nor the CPPA has yet approved such frameworks. The CCPA and CPRA set forth high potential liabilities for data privacy violations on a per-record basis, and the industry faces an uncertain compliance burden as our partners and publishers work to become compliant with the law. Adding further complexity in California, the CPRA imposed additional data protection obligations on companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes and opt-outs for certain uses of sensitive data and sharing of personal data. Likewise, several U.S. state laws took effect in 2023: Virginia enacted the Consumer Data Protection Act (CDPA), Connecticut enacted the Connecticut Data Privacy Act (CTDPA), Colorado enacted the Colorado Privacy Act (CPA), and Utah enacted the Utah Consumer Privacy Act (UCPA), which impose consumer rights processes and requires user consent for certain types of sensitive data. Additional state privacy laws have been enacted and are set to take effect between 2024 and 2026: the Florida Digital Bill of Rights (July 1, 2024), Oregons protections for the personal data of consumer enacted through SB 619 (July 1, 2024), the Texas Data Privacy and Security Act (July 1, 2024), Montanas Consumer Data Privacy Act (October 1, 2024), the Delaware Personal Data Privacy Act (January 1, 2025), Iowas Consumer Data Protection Act (January 1, 2025), the New Jersey Senate Bill 332 (January 15, 2025), the Tennessee Information Protection Act (July 1, 2025) and the Indiana Consumer Data Protection Act (January 1, 2026). These laws also set forth high potential liabilities for data privacy violations, including on a per-record basis, and the industry faces an uncertain compliance burden as our partners and publishers work to become compliant with these laws in the future. Outside of the United States, our privacy and data practices are subject to regulation by data protection authorities and other regulators in the countries in which we do business. The use and transfer of personal data in member states of the European Union is currently governed under the GDPR, which grants additional rights to consumers about their data, such as deletion and portability, and generally prohibits the transfer of personal data of EU subjects outside of the EU, unless the party exporting the data from the EU implements a compliance mechanism designed to ensure that the receiving party will adequately protect such data. We had relied on the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework (Privacy Shield Framework), to transfer personal data of EU subjects to the United States, but the Privacy Shield Framework was declared invalid by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on July 16, 2020. In October 2022, the Biden administration negotiated new privacy transfer terms with EU regulators, and signed an Executive Order directing the steps the United States would take to implement its commitments to an EU/U.S. Data Privacy Framework. On July 10, 2023, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision for the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, and in October 2023 we self-certified to comply with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework as a mechanism to legally facilitate personal data transfers from the EU, the U.K., and Switzerland to the U.S. This new Data Privacy Framework could be subject to legal challenge in front of the CJEU, specifically by Max Schrems, who successfully litigated to invalidate the Privacy Shield in 2020 and has indicated that he will legally challenge these new frameworks. Related to cross-border transfers, in its July 16, 2020 decision, while the CJEU upheld the adequacy of the standard contractual clauses (a standard form of contract approved and promulgated by the European Commission as an adequate personal data transfer mechanism and potential alternative to the then-invalidated Privacy Shield Framework), it made clear that reliance on them alone may not necessarily be sufficient in all circumstances and cast doubt on their future use. Use of the standard contractual clauses must now be assessed on a case-by-case basis taking into account the legal regime applicable in the destination country, in particular applicable surveillance laws and rights of individuals. The use of standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data specifically to the United States remains under review by a number of European data protection supervisory authorities. The GDPR, as originally implement by the respective EU members states and later adopted by the U.K. following Brexit (the UK GDPR), sets out higher potential liabilities for certain data protection violations, which may result in fines up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of an enterprises global annual revenue. Additionally, the UK GDPR will also have the ability to fine up to the greater of 17.5 million or 4% of global turnover. Further, the EU is currently in discussions to replace the ePrivacy Directive (commonly called the Cookie Directive) with the ePrivacy Regulation that governs the use of technologies that collect, access, and store consumer information and may create additional compliance burdens for us in Europe. 11 Table of Contents Other jurisdictions have enacted legislation that closely tracks the concepts, obligations, and consumer rights described in the GDPR, including Brazils General Data Protection law and Thailands Personal Data Protection Act. Some jurisdictions, including Russia and China, have in recent years enacted data localization laws, which require any personal information of citizens of those jurisdictions to be stored and processed on servers located in those jurisdictions. Such laws are gaining momentum and are being enforced by local authorities. Beyond laws and regulations, we are also members of self-regulatory bodies that impose additional requirements related to the collection, use, and disclosure of consumer data, including the IAB, the Digital Advertising Alliance, and the NAI. Under the requirements of these self-regulatory bodies, in addition to other compliance obligations, we provide consumers with notice via our privacy policies about our use of cookies and other technologies to collect consumer data, our collection and use of consumer data to deliver interest-based advertisements, and consumers opt-out choices. We also allow consumers to opt-out from the use of data we collect for purposes of interest-based advertising through mechanisms described in our privacy policies available on our website. Some of these self-regulatory bodies have the ability to discipline members or participants, which could result in penalties and cause reputational harm. Additionally, some of these bodies might refer violations of their requirements to the Federal Trade Commission or other regulators. Our Team and Culture Our culture and our team are our most important asset in building and expanding our business. Our team identifies new problems to solve, builds solutions, optimizes and extends our infrastructure, and acquires and serves our customers. We believe that strong and diverse customer teams deepen customer relationships, promote innovation, and increase productivity. Our people strategy revolves around creating employee experiences that foster deep employee engagement built upon personal development and achievement that is supported by continuous feedback, learning, and team building. Our workplaces have been recognized as a Great Place to Work in the United States, India, Asia, and Europe. We have achieved these results by delivering custom learning programs and creating opportunities for advancement that align with the dynamic needs of our business. Our practice of open and transparent communication coupled with a performance-based approach to compensation has created a culture in which employees feel empowered in their ability to influence and impact our business and be rewarded for their efforts. The value proposition we offer to our employees is rounded out with strong benefits programs that include paid family leave, health and wellness benefits and company sponsored opportunities to give back to the communities in which they work and live. We are also committed to being inclusive in our hiring practices, promotion practices, and management practices as a means of ensuring equal opportunity for all employees as we continue to diversify our workforce. The diversity of our workforce has been publicly documented since 2017 with our annual Diversity & Inclusion Report. Execution of this plan is overseen in part by our Diversity & Inclusion Committee. The plan has a global focus that takes into consideration regional cultural differences to provide interactive employee experiences that drive continuous support for inclusion throughout our organization. It has always been our goal to attract and retain the best talent in the industry and our inclusive recruiting process includes finding those candidates that best add to our company mission, values, and cultural principles. These three guiding elements form a social contract between employees as well as set expectations for the common behaviors we can expect from each other and inform how we treat our customers. They are infused in every aspect of our business, from employee experience and workplace culture to marketing strategies and customer success. Values: We put the customer first. We are biased towards action. We are leaders and innovators. We are committed to integrity. We celebrate teamwork. 12 Table of Contents Cultural Principles: We will empower every individual team member and treat each other as partners. We will make having fun a priority. We will hire and retain the best talent. We will communicate internally with honesty, transparency, and authenticity, including positive and negative information. We will encourage diversity and inclusion of ideas and people, creating a high-trust and high-performance workplace. As of December 31, 2023, we had 948 employees, of whom 290 were located in the United States, 537 in India, and 121 in our other offices around the world. Corporate Information We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 2006. Our internet address is www.pubmatic.com. We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and related amendments, exhibits and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). You may access and read our filings without charge through the SECs website at www.sec.gov or through our website at https://investors.pubmatic.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Website addresses referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained on or available through our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report or documents we file with or furnish to the SEC. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks materializes, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially harmed, which could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline, and cause any investment in our Class A common stock to lose some or all of its value. Risks Related to Our Business, Results of Operations and Growth Our revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the overall demand for advertising. Our business depends on the overall demand for advertising and on the economic health of our current and prospective publishers and buyers. In 2023, macroeconomic factors such as inflation, rising interest rates and softening demand in certain verticals caused some advertisers to reduce their advertising budgets. Such macroeconomic factors, as well as broader economic downturns, recessions, inflation, further changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates or any supply chain disruptions, changes in the tax treatment of advertising expenses, or general uncertainty, in North America, Europe, and Asia, where we do most of our business; could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the conflicts in Ukraine and Israel could cause unpredictable economic effects in Europe and EMEA, including potentially softening general consumer demand. Such conflicts have increased costs of labor and other items impacting our cost of revenue, and these conflicts and potential others may do so in the future. Reductions in overall advertising spending due to these factors could make it difficult to predict our revenue and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If our existing customers do not expand their usage of our platform, or if we fail to attract new publishers and buyers, our growth will suffer. Moreover, any decrease in the use of the advertising channels that we primarily depend on, or failure to expand into emerging channels, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend upon our buyer and publisher relationships, including channel partners, which aggregate large numbers of smaller publishers, to provide advertising space which we can offer to prospective buyers to continue to grow the usage of our platform. In doing so, we compete for both supply and demand with larger, well-established companies that may have technological or other advantages stemming from their broader experience in the market. We must continue to adapt and improve our technology to compete effectively, and customers have not always embraced our offerings due to various factors, including switching costs from moving away from pre-existing technology integrations, such as already implemented header bidding wrappers, and lack of awareness of our omnichannel offerings. Although we believe we provide superior transparency and accountability to such competitors, certain customers may make technological or financial demands that we are unable or unwilling to meet. These and other factors may make it difficult for us to increase our business with our publishers and buyers, cause some buyers to reduce their spending with us, or increase our costs of doing business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A relatively small number of premium publishers have historically accounted for a significant portion of the ad impressions sold on our platform, as well as a significant portion of our revenue from publishers, including a relatively small number of channel partners. We generally do not have minimum commitments from publishers. As a result, the amount, quality, and cost of ad impressions available to us can change at any time with little or no prior notice, and we cannot assure you that we will have access to a consistent volume or quality of ad impressions at a reasonable cost, or at all. We depend upon a relatively small number of premium publishers and channel partners and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. To support our continued growth, we seek to add additional publishers and buyers to our platform and to expand current utilization with our existing publishers and buyers. Any disruptions in our relationships with premium publishers, buyers, or our largest channel partners could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we cannot retain or add individual publishers with valuable ad impressions, or if such publishers decide not to make their valuable ad impressions available to us, then our buyers may be less inclined to use our platform, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents A limited number of large demand side platforms (DSPs) The Trade Desk and Google DV360 in particular account for a significant portion of the ad impressions purchased on our platform. We depend upon these DSPs for a large percentage of impressions purchased and expect to do so for the foreseeable future. We have no minimum commitments from buyers to spend on our platform, so the amount of demand available to us can change at any time with little or no prior notice, and we cannot assure you that we will have access to a consistent volume or quality of ad campaigns or demand for our ad impressions at a reasonable price, or at all. Any disruptions in our relationships with DSPs, agencies, advertisers, or buyers could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If a buyer or group of buyers representing a significant portion of the demand in our marketplace decides to materially reduce use of our platform, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our revenue and profitability and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Historically, our buyers have predominantly used our platform to purchase mobile, display, and video advertising inventory from our publishers. We expect that these will continue to be significant channels used by our customers for digital advertising in the future. We also believe that our revenue growth may depend on our ability to expand within mobile, video, and in particular, CTV, and we are continuing to enhance such channels. We may not be able to accurately predict changes in overall advertiser demand for the channels in which we operate and cannot assure you that our investment in formats will correspond to any such changes or shifts in demand. Any decrease in the use of mobile, display, and video advertising, whether due to customers losing confidence in the value or effectiveness of such channels, regulatory restrictions or other causes, or any inability to further penetrate CTV or enter new and emerging advertising channels, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors. We operate in an evolving industry with ever-changing customer needs, and, as a result, our business has evolved over time such that our operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and future results of operations are likely to fluctuate as well. Although we have experienced prolonged revenue growth, we may not be able to sustain this growth rate, current revenue levels, or profitability. In addition, because our business is evolving, our historical results of operations may be of limited utility in assessing our future prospects. We expect to face challenges, risks, and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly developing industries, including those relating to: changes in demand and pricing for ad impressions sold on our platform; changes in our access to valuable ad impressions from publishers; responding to evolving industry standards and government regulations that impact our business, particularly in the areas of data protection and consumer privacy; developing, maintaining, and expanding relationships with publishers, DSPs, agencies, advertisers, and buyers; seasonality in our business; innovating and developing new solutions that are adopted by and meet the needs of publishers, DSPs, agencies, advertisers, and buyers; competing against companies with a larger customer base or greater financial or technical resources; changes in the structure of the buying and selling of ad impressions; changes in the pricing policies of publishers and competitors; changes in demand due to changes in macroeconomic environment, including as a result of an economic downturn, recession, inflation, changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates, disruptions to supply chains, or otherwise; further expanding our business internationally; and recruiting, integrating, and retaining qualified and motivated employees, particularly engineers. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. You should not rely on our past results as an indicator of our future performance. Because many of our expenses are based upon forecasted demand and may be difficult to reduce in the short term, volatility in quarterly revenue could cause significant variations in quarterly results of operations. We may not forecast our revenue or expenses accurately, causing our results of operations to diverge from our estimates or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall, and we could face costly litigation, including securities class action lawsuits. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to make the right investment decisions in our platform, or if we fail to innovate and develop new solutions that are adopted by publishers, we may not attract and retain publishers and buyers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We face intense competition in the marketplace and are confronted by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, regulatory changes, and the frequent introduction of new solutions by our competitors that we must adapt and respond to. We need to continuously update our platform and the technology we invest in and develop, including our machine learning and other proprietary algorithms, in order to attract publishers and buyers and keep ahead of changes in technology, evolving industry standards and a rapidly changing regulatory environment. Our platform is complex and new solutions can require a significant investment of time and resources to develop, test, introduce, and enhance. These activities can take longer than we expect and may require the hiring of employees or contractors with new skill sets, which we may not be able to do in a cost-effective manner or at all. Moreover, we may not make the right decisions regarding these investments. For example, we recently launched two new products, Activate and Convert, which may not be widely adopted or result in incremental value. New formats and channels, such as mobile header bidding and CTV, present unique challenges that we must address to succeed. Our success in new formats and channels depends upon our ability to integrate our platform with these new formats and channels. If our mobile, video, or CTV solutions are not widely adopted by publishers and buyers, we may not retain such publishers and buyers. In addition, new demands from publishers and buyers, superior offerings by competitors, changes in technology, or new industry standards or regulatory requirements could render our platform or our existing solutions less effective and require us to make unanticipated changes to our platform or business model. Our failure to adapt to a rapidly changing market and regulatory environment, anticipate publisher and buyer demand, or attract and retain publishers and buyers would cause our revenue or revenue growth rate to decline, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We must scale our platform infrastructure to support anticipated growth and transaction volume. If we fail to do so, or doing so becomes too costly, we may limit our ability to process ad impressions, and we may lose revenue. Our business depends on processing advertising impressions in milliseconds, and we must handle an increasingly large volume of such transactions. The demands on our platform infrastructure have increased over time due to, among other factors, the addition of new solutions, such as our Activate or Convert offerings, the need to support evolving advertising formats, the handling and increased use of large amounts of data, and overall growth in impressions. Expanding our platform infrastructure and the number of ad impressions we can process requires resource commitment over a period of months or years, and we may not be able to scale quickly enough if demand increases rapidly as short-term solutions may be too costly or unavailable. If we are unable to grow our platform to support substantial increases in the number of transactions and in the amount of data we process, on a high-performance, cost-effective basis, or we are slow in growing our infrastructure compared to demand, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We expect to continue to invest in our platform in order to meet these requirements, and that investment could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Additionally, if we overestimate future usage of our platform, we may incur expense in adding infrastructure without a commensurate increase in revenue, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our efforts to provide new or expanded offerings may not be successful, or we may not be able to scale our offerings to meet demand in a timely manner, and, as a result, we may not realize a return from our investments. We believe there is significant and growing demand for our offerings and those we are developing, and we are making significant investments to meet that demand and grow our market share. That demand may not materialize and, even if it does so, we may not be able to take advantage of that increased demand if we cannot scale our offerings in a timely manner or if the demand for one of our offerings cannibalizes the demand for other products we offer. In some cases, we have experienced fee pressure as we have built out our offerings, and we expect this fee pressure to increase as more competitors, including new entrants as well as publishers themselves, build their own technology and infrastructure to enter the markets in which we do business. Even if the market for these offerings develops as we anticipate, publishers and buyers might not embrace our offerings to the degree we expect due to various factors such as inertia from usage of existing implementations of competitive products. While continued investment in and use of our products has allowed us to achieve efficiencies, the investment cost to gain such efficiencies may grow over time, especially with our existing products which may be closer to technical and economic maturity, and the potential expansion of our business or offerings may increase regulatory scrutiny of our company. Additionally, even if publishers and buyers embrace our new or expanded offerings, the positive effect of these new or expanded offerings on our results of operations may be offset or negated if such adoption cannibalizes business from our existing solutions, if we are unable to scale our offerings to keep up with demand, if we are unable to hire or retain personnel with the requisite skills and experience related to our new or expanded offerings, if publishers and buyers prefer similar offerings from our competitors, or by other adverse developments. 16 Table of Contents Risk Related to Data Collection and the Use of Collected Data The rejection of digital advertising by consumers, through opt-in, opt-out or ad-blocking technologies or other means or the restriction on the use of third party-cookies, mobile device identifiers or other tracking technologies, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We use cookies, or small text files placed on consumer devices when an Internet browser is used, as well as mobile device identifiers, to gather data that enables our platform to be more effective. Our cookies and mobile device identifiers do not identify consumers directly, but record information such as when a consumer views or clicks on an advertisement, when a consumer uses a mobile app, the consumers location, and browser or other device information. Publishers, buyers, third-party data providers, and partners may also choose to share their information about consumers interests or give us permission to use their cookies and mobile device identifiers. We use data from cookies, mobile device identifiers, and other tracking technologies to help advertisers decide whether to bid on, and how to price, an ad impression in a certain location, at a given time, for a particular consumer. Without cookies, mobile device identifiers, and other tracking technology data, transactions processed through our platform would be executed with less insight into consumer activity, reducing the precision of advertisers' decisions about which impressions to purchase for an advertising campaign. This could make advertising through our platform less valuable and decrease our revenue as advertising budgets may be decreased or directed to alternatives that dont rely on cookies, mobile device identifiers, and other tracking technology data. If our ability to use cookies, mobile device identifiers or other tracking technologies is limited, we may be required to develop or obtain additional applications and technologies to compensate for the lack of cookies, mobile device identifiers and other tracking technology data, which may not be available to us or could be time consuming or costly to develop, less effective, and subject to additional regulation. Additionally, consumers can, with increasing ease, implement technologies that limit our ability to collect and use data to deliver advertisements or otherwise limit the effectiveness of our platform. Cookies may be deleted or blocked by consumers. The most commonly used Internet browsers allow consumers to modify their browser settings to block first-party cookies (placed directly by the publisher or website owner that the consumer intends to interact with) or third-party cookies (placed by parties, like us, that have no direct relationship with the consumer), and some browsers block third-party cookies by default. Some consumers also download ad blocking software on their computers or mobile devices, not only for privacy reasons, but also to counteract the adverse effect advertisements can have on the consumer experience, including increased load times, data consumption, and screen overcrowding. Ad-blocking technologies and other global privacy controls may prevent some third-party cookies, or other tracking technologies, from being stored on a consumer's computer or mobile device. If more consumers adopt these measures, it could reduce the volume or effectiveness and value of advertising, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, some ad blocking technologies block only ads that are targeted through use of third-party data, while allowing ads based on first-party data (i.e., data owned by the publisher). These ad blockers could place us at a disadvantage because we rely on third-party data, while some large competitors have troves of first-party data they use to direct advertising. Mobile devices using Android and iOS operating systems limit the ability of cookies to track consumers while they are using applications other than their web browser on the device. As a consequence, fewer of our or our publishers cookies may be set in browsers or be accessible in mobile devices, which adversely affects our business. Other technologies allow ads that are deemed acceptable, which could be defined in ways that place us or our publishers at a disadvantage, particularly if such technologies are controlled or influenced by our competitors. Even if ad blockers do not ultimately have an adverse effect on our business, investor concerns about ad blockers could cause our stock price to decline. The disabling of third-party cookies, and the potential of others to develop proprietary replacements for cookies, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Some prominent technology companies, including Google, have also announced intentions to discontinue the use of third-party cookies, and to develop alternative methods and mechanisms for targeting advertisements. On January 4, 2024, Google disabled third-party cookies for up to 1% of Chrome users and has announced plans to disable cookies for additional users beginning in the third quarter of 2024. If companies are forced to rely on targeting methodologies other than cookies, such companies may instead rely on proprietary products, algorithms, or statistical methods to track consumers without cookies, or may utilize log-in credentials entered by consumers into other web properties owned by those companies such as their email services to track web usage, including usage across multiple devices. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, such companies may build different and potentially proprietary consumer tracking methods into their widely used web browsers, which we may not be able to effectively use for our publishers and buyers. Many applications and other devices also allow consumers to avoid receiving advertisements by paying for subscriptions or other downloads. Although we believe our platform is well-positioned to adapt and continue to provide key data insights to our publishers without cookies, this transition could be more disruptive, slower, or more expensive than we currently anticipate, or publishers and buyers could elect to move a larger proportion of their advertising inventory or spend to these providers to take advantage of proprietary consumer tracking methods, any of which could materially affect our ability to serve our customers, publishers, and buyers, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to collect, use, and disclose data to deliver advertisements. Any limitation imposed on our collection, use or disclosure of this data could significantly diminish the value of our solution and cause us to lose publishers, buyers, and revenue. Consumer tools, regulatory restrictions and technological limitations all threaten our ability to use and disclose data. As we process transactions through our platform, we collect large amounts of data about advertisements and where they are placed, such as advertiser and publisher preferences for media and advertising content. We also collect data on ad specifications such as placement, size and format, ad pricing, and auction activity such as price floors, bid response behavior, and clearing prices. Further, we collect data on consumers that does not directly identify the individual, but includes pseudonymous identifiers and data regarding browser, device location and characteristics, online browsing behavior, exposure to and interaction with advertisements, and inferential data about purchase intentions, and preferences. We collect this data through various means, including from our own systems, pixels that publishers allow us to place on their websites to track consumer visits, software development kits installed in mobile applications, cookies, and other tracking technologies. Our publishers, buyers, and data providers may also choose to provide us with their proprietary data about consumers. We collect this data and analyze it in order to enhance our services, including the pricing, placement, and scheduling of advertisements. As part of our real-time analytics service offering, we also share the data, or analyses based on it, with our publishers and buyers. Our ability to collect, use and share data about advertising transactions and consumer behavior is critical to the value of our services, and is subject to a rapidly evolving regulatory framework that is not always consistent across geographies and jurisdictions. Evolving and conflicting regulatory standards could place restrictions on the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting or otherwise obtaining certain kinds of data and could limit the ways in which we may use or disclose information. Internet users can, with increasing ease, implement practices or technologies that may limit our ability to collect and use data to deliver advertisements, or otherwise inhibit the effectiveness of our platform. Although our publishers and buyers generally permit us to aggregate and use data from advertising placements, subject to certain restrictions, publishers or buyers might decide to restrict our collection or use of their data. Any limitations on this ability could impair our ability to deliver effective solutions, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If publishers, buyers, and data providers do not obtain necessary and requisite consents from consumers for us to process their personal data, we could be subject to fines and liability. Because we do not generally have direct relationships with consumers, we rely on publishers, buyers, and data providers, as applicable, to obtain the consent of the consumer on our behalf to process their data and deliver interest-based advertisements, and to implement any notice or choice mechanisms required under applicable laws. If publishers, buyers, or data providers do not follow the applicable requirements and processes or otherwise fail to secure any legally-required consents or provide required notice and choice mechanisms, which can be difficult given the rapidly evolving regulatory consent frameworks being promulgated, we could be subject to fines and liability. Additionally, if our data, privacy, or consent practices are found to be inadequate, or we make errors in the deployment of existing and future policies or safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory action. We may not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnity arrangements to protect us against any such fines, penalties, claims, and losses. 18 Table of Contents Risk Related to the Advertising Industry and Competition The digital advertising industry is intensely competitive, and if we do not effectively compete against current and future competitors, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The digital advertising ecosystem is competitive and complex due to a variety of factors. While programmatic header bidding and other digital advertising has enabled the purchasing and selling of vast amounts of digital advertising inventory, there are significant challenges related to proliferation of media across platforms, including maintaining competitive transaction speed, increased costs, transparency, and evolving regulatory requirements. To address these issues at scale for both buyers and sellers, we provide specialized software and hardware infrastructure to optimally power technology-driven transactions. To successfully grow our business, we compete with SSPs like Magnite, Inc., smaller private SSPs in markets around the world, as well as divisions of larger companies like Google. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources, longer operating histories, and greater name recognition. In addition, some competitors, particularly those with greater scale or a more diversified revenue base and a broader offering, have greater flexibility than we do to compete aggressively on the basis of price and other contract terms, or to compete with us by including in their product offerings services that we may not be able to provide. Some of our competitors may also choose to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or they may be able to sell competitive products or services at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technical superiority, or economies of scale. The introduction of competitive products, pricing strategies, or other technologies by our competitors that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services could adversely affect our business. We experience requests from publishers and buyers for discounts, fee concessions, rebates, refunds, and greater levels of pricing transparency, in some cases as a condition to maintain the relationship or to increase the amount of advertising spend that the buyer sends to our platform. In addition, we charge fees to publishers for use of our platform, and we may decide to offer discounts or other pricing concessions in order to attract more inventory or demand, or to compete effectively with other providers that have different or lower pricing structures and may be able to undercut our pricing due to greater scale or other factors. Our revenue, take rate, business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we cannot maintain and grow our revenue and profitability through volume increases that compensate for any price reductions, or if we are forced to make significant fee concessions, rebates, or refunds. Some of our competitors are also able or willing to agree to contract terms that expose them to risks that might be more appropriately allocated to publishers or buyers (including inventory risk and the risk of having to pay publishers for unsold advertising impressions, among others), and in order to compete effectively we might need to accommodate risks that could be costly to manage or insure against. Some existing and potential buyers have their own relationships with publishers or are seeking to establish such relationships, and many publishers are investing in capabilities that enable them to connect more effectively directly with buyers. Our business suffers when publishers and buyers purchase and sell advertising inventory directly from one another or through other intermediaries other than us, reducing the amount of advertising spend on our platform. If we are unable to compete effectively for publishers ad impressions and buyers advertising spend, we could experience a decline in market share and revenues and be forced to reduce our prices, resulting in lower profit margins for us. Loss of existing or future market share to new competitors and increased price competition could substantially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. There has also been rapid evolution and consolidation in the advertising technology industry, and we expect these trends to continue, increasing the capabilities and competitive posture of larger companies, particularly those that already are dominant or have a greater market share than us, and enabling new or stronger competitors to emerge. Many publishers and buyers are large, consolidated organizations that may need to acquire other companies in order to grow. Smaller publishers and buyers may need to consolidate to compete effectively. There is a finite number of large publishers and buyers in our target markets, and any consolidation of publishers or buyers may give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power or result in the loss of publishers and buyers that use our platform, reducing our potential base of publishers and buyers, each of which would lead to erosion of our revenue and financial condition. Market pressure may reduce our revenue per impression. Our revenue can be affected by market changes, new demands by publishers and buyers, new solutions, and competitive pressure. Our solutions may be priced too high or too low, or our pricing approaches may not be accepted, any of which may carry adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. We may receive requests from publishers for discounts, fee revisions, rebates, and refunds, or from DSPs, agencies and advertisers for volume discounts, fee revisions, and rebates. Any of these pressures from publishers or buyers can adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations or market changes in digital advertising activity could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our revenue, net cash provided by operating activities, results of operations, and other key operating and performance metrics vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of digital advertising spending. For example, digital advertisers tend to devote a large portion of their budgets to campaigns in the fourth quarter of the year, to coincide with consumer holiday spending, and then have a significantly smaller advertising budget in the first calendar quarter. Pricing of digital ad impressions in the fourth quarter is likely to be higher due to increased demand. Googles announced intent to further deactivate cookies in the third and fourth quarter of 2024 could cause disruption to our business during a time when we typically expect to generate a disproportionate amount of our revenue, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, adverse economic conditions, inflation, changes in foreign exchange rates or interest rates, or general economic uncertainty may cause advertisers to decrease purchases of digital ad impressions, adversely affecting our business, results of operation and financial condition. A decline in the market for programmatic advertising or the failure of that market to grow as expected could also adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If ad formats and digital device types develop in ways that prevent advertisements from being delivered to consumers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our success depends upon the ability of our platform to provide advertising for a variety of digital devices, the major operating systems or Internet browsers that run on them, and the thousands of applications that are downloaded onto them. The design of digital devices and operating systems or browsers is controlled by third parties that may also introduce new devices and operating systems or modify existing ones, and our access to content on certain devices may be limited. If our platform cannot operate effectively with popular devices, operating systems, or Internet browsers, including, for example, as a result of Googles deactivation of cookies or other similar events, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Operations If we fail to detect or prevent fraud on our platform, or malware intrusion into the systems or devices of our publishers and their consumers, publishers could lose confidence in our platform, and we could face legal claims. We may be subject to fraudulent or malicious activities undertaken by persons seeking to use our platform for improper purposes. For example, someone may attempt to divert or artificially inflate advertiser purchases through our platform, or to disrupt or divert the operation of our systems and the devices of our publishers and their consumers in order to misappropriate information, generate fraudulent billings, stage cyberattacks, or for other illicit purposes. For example, sophisticated bot-nets and other complex forms of click fraud might be used to generate fraudulent impressions and divert advertising revenue from legitimate websites of publishers. Those activities could also introduce malware through our platform to commandeer or gain access to information on consumers computers. We use third-party tools and proprietary technology to identify non-human traffic and malware, and we may reduce or terminate relationships with publishers that we find to be engaging in such activities. Although we continuously assess the quality and performance of advertising on publishers digital media properties, it may be difficult to detect fraudulent or malicious activity quickly or at all. Further, perpetrators of fraudulent impressions and malware frequently change their tactics and can become more sophisticated over time, requiring both us and third parties to improve processes for assessing the quality of publisher inventory and controlling fraudulent activity. If we fail to timely detect or prevent fraudulent or malicious activity of this sort, our reputation could be damaged, publishers may contest payment, demand refunds, or fail to give us future business, or we could face legal claims. Even if we are not directly involved in fraud or malicious activity, any sustained failures of others in our industry to adequately detect and prevent fraud could generate the perception that programmatic advertising is unsafe and lead our publishers to avoid programmatic advertising. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to retain key members of our management team, and on our ability to hire, train, retain, and motivate new employees. Our success depends upon the continued service of members of our senior management team and other key employees. Our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Rajeev K. Goel, is critical to our overall management, as well as the continued development of our platform and relationships with publishers, DSPs, and agencies, and our strategic direction. Our success also depends on our ability to hire, train, retain, and motivate new employees that align with our corporate culture that has fostered innovation, creativity, and teamwork across our business. Competition for employees in our industry can be intense, and we compete for experienced personnel with many companies that have greater resources than we have. Further, as our business grows and we introduce new offerings, we may need to hire employees with skills and experience that we have not historically required. The market for talent in our key areas of operations, especially in engineering, and competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, Pune, India, and New York, where we maintain offices. As we expand and change, in particular across multiple geographies or following acquisitions, it may be difficult to preserve our corporate culture, which could increase employee turnover or reduce our ability to innovate, create, and operate effectively. We are subject to payment-related risks if DSP buyers dispute or do not pay their invoices, and if DSPs file for bankruptcy protection or there are any decreases in payments, it could adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. We generate revenue primarily through revenue share agreements with our publishers. We invoice DSPs and collect the full purchase price for the digital ad impressions they purchase, retain our fees, and remit the balance to the publisher. However, in some cases, we are required to pay publishers for digital ad impressions delivered even if we are unable to collect from the buyer that purchased the digital ad impressions. In the past, certain buyers have sought to slow their payments to us or been forced into filing for bankruptcy protection, resulting in us not receiving payment. These challenges may be exacerbated by the overall market and economic volatility, inflation, changes in foreign exchange rates or interest rates, disruptions to supply chains, pandemics, epidemics or other public health crises, and the resulting economic impacts, as many of our buyers are experiencing financial difficulties and liquidity constraints. Some DSPs have historically carried relatively high debt obligations, and the maturity of that debt or changes in interest rates may negatively impact the liquidity of those DSPs and their ability to timely pay us. In certain cases, buyers have been unable to timely make payments and we have suffered financial losses, including in June 2023 when MediaMath declared bankruptcy, which led us to record a bad debt expense of $5.7 million. While our contracts generally do not contain such exposure, there are certain agreements under which we may be responsible for the whole amount of contracted spending, whether or not ultimately paid by the buyer. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn or prolonged period of elevated interest rates may lead additional buyers to slow or default on payments or in some cases seek bankruptcy protection. We cannot assure you that we will not experience bad debt in the future, and write-offs for bad debt could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in the periods in which the write-offs occur. If our cash collections are significantly diminished as a result of these dynamics, our revenue and/or cash flow could be adversely affected, and we may need to use working capital to fund our accounts payable pending collection from the buyers. This may result in additional costs and cause us to forgo or defer more strategic uses of that working capital. 21 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to additional costs and risks, and our continued international expansion may not be successful. We have entered into several international markets and we expect to continue to expand our international operations. Further expansion may require significant management attention and financial resources and may place burdens on our management, administrative, operational, legal, and financial infrastructure. The costs and risks inherent in conducting business internationally include, but are not limited to: difficulties and costs associated with maintaining effective controls at foreign locations; adapting our platform and solutions to non-U.S. publishers preferences and customs; regulatory and other delays and difficulties in setting up foreign operations, including difficulties in hiring personnel with skill sets and experience that match our international expansion efforts; compliance with anti-bribery laws and regulations, export and import control and economic sanctions, laws and regulations; compliance with foreign data privacy laws; economic and political instability in some countries, including as a result of the conflicts in Ukraine and Israel; and compliance with the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. These factors and others, and the costs associated with any failure to effectively manage risks and comply with local laws and regulations, could harm our ability to increase international revenues and, consequently, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our use and reliance upon technology and development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs and liabilities, which could affect our ability to realize cost savings from our operations in India. Most of our technology and development work is conducted in Pune, India. We cannot assure you that our reliance upon development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including, but not limited to: difficulty hiring and retaining engineering and management resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; heightened exposure to changes in economic, health, security, and political conditions in India; and fluctuations in currency exchange rates and tax compliance in India. In addition, enforcement of intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in India may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to protect our trade secrets and confidential information. The experience and capabilities of Indian courts in handling intellectual property litigation vary, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditures of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect to continue to rely on significant cost savings obtained by concentrating our technology and development and engineering work in India, rather than in the United States, but difficulties resulting from the factors noted above and other risks related to our operations in India could increase our expenses and harm our competitive position. The historical rate of wage inflation has been higher in India than in the United States. Accordingly, it may be harder in the future to achieve labor-related cost efficiencies that we have historically benefited from. In addition, if the Rupee strengthens against the U.S. Dollar, our costs would increase. If the cost of technology and development work in India significantly increases or the labor environment in India changes unfavorably, our cost savings may be diminished. Any such developments could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend on third-party data centers, the disruption of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We host our company-owned infrastructure at third-party data centers. Any damage to or failure of our systems generally would prevent us from operating our business. We rely on the Internet and, accordingly, depend upon the continuous, reliable, and secure operation of Internet servers, related hardware and software, and network infrastructure. While we control and have access to our servers and all of the components of our network that are located in our external data centers, we do not control the operation of these facilities. 22 Table of Contents The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one of our data center operators is acquired, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. Problems faced by our third-party data center operations, with the telecommunications network providers with whom we or they contract, or with the systems by which our telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of publishers. Additionally, improving our platforms infrastructure and expanding its capacity in anticipation of growth in new channels and formats, as well as implementing technological enhancements to our platform to improve its efficiency and cost-effectiveness are key components of our business strategy, and if our data centers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Increasing data center capacity requires physical plant expansion and the procurement of additional equipment, which can take a year or more to accomplish. Accordingly, if there is a rapid increase in our need for data center capacity, we may not be able to increase our capacity quickly enough to meet the needs of publishers or our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems could adversely affect our reputation, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Service interruptions might reduce our revenue, trigger refunds to publishers, subject us to potential liability, or adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in interruptions in the availability of our platform. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, they have not been tested under actual disasters or similar events and may not effectively permit us to continue to provide our products and services in the event of any problems with respect to our data centers. Moreover, because we do not currently have full redundancy with respect to the services at each data center, if one of our data centers shuts down there may be a period of time that our products or services, or some of our products or services, will be unavailable to publishers served by that data center. If any of these events were to occur to our business, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be adversely affected. Platform outages or disruptions, including due to cyberattacks or our failure to maintain adequate security and supporting infrastructure, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As we grow our business, we expect to continue to invest in our platform infrastructure, including hardware and software solutions, network services, and database technologies, as well as potentially increase our reliance on open source software. Without these improvements, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions, slow transaction processing, unreliable service levels, impaired quality, or delays in reporting accurate information regarding transactions on our platform, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain publishers. The steps we take to enhance the reliability, integrity, and security of our platform as it scales are expensive and complex, and poor execution could result in operational failures. In addition, cyberattack techniques are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly diverse and sophisticated, and could involve denial-of-service attacks or other maneuvers that have the effect of disrupting the availability of services on our platform. Other types of cyberattacks could harm us even if our platform operations are left undisturbed. For example, attacks may be designed to deceive employees into releasing control of their systems to a hacker, while others may aim to introduce computer viruses or malware into our systems with a view to stealing confidential or proprietary data. Additionally, we rely on third party software providers for the delivery of certain of our services and offerings, and a disruption to those providers, whether an outage, cybersecurity attack, or otherwise, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are also vulnerable to unintentional errors or malicious actions by persons with authorized access to our systems that exceed the scope of their access rights, distribute data erroneously, or, unintentionally or intentionally, interfere with the intended operations of our platform. Although we maintain insurance coverage, it may be insufficient to protect us against all losses and costs stemming from security breaches, cyberattacks and other types of unlawful activity, or any resulting disruptions from such events. Outages and disruptions of our platform, including any caused by cyberattacks, may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Our software platform could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend upon the sustained and uninterrupted performance of our platform to operate our business. Software bugs, faulty algorithms, technical or infrastructure problems, or system updates could lead to an inability to process data to place advertisements or price inventory effectively, or cause advertisements to display improperly or be placed in proximity to inappropriate content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. These risks are compounded by the complexity of our technology and the large amounts of data we utilize. Because our software is complex, undetected material defects, errors and failures may occur. Despite testing, errors or bugs in our software may not be found until the software is in our live operating environment. For example, changes to our solution have in the past caused errors in the measurements of transactions conducted through our platform, resulting in disputes raised by publishers. Errors or failures in our offerings, even if caused by the implementation of changes by publishers or partners to their systems, could also result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our offerings, increased costs or loss of revenue, or loss of competitive position. As a result, defects or errors in our products or services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair the ability of publishers to sell and for buyers to purchase inventory, and impair our ability to fulfill obligations with publishers and partners. Any significant interruptions could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our continued business success depends upon our ability to offer high-quality inventory with appropriate viewability capabilities. We must address quality concerns of both advertisers and publishers. Publishers require ad quality tools that enable granular control over the characteristics of the ads that run on their ad impressions, including those relating to the advertiser, industry and content for a particular ad. We must also provide automatic or ad hoc blocking of ads that contain malware or other ads the publisher deems undesirable. Our inventory quality tools must continue to help publishers demonstrate the value and quality of their ad impressions to DSPs, advertisers, and agencies with automated fraud detection and viewability reporting. Maintaining and upgrading our capabilities associated with ad quality and inventory quality is complex and costly. Maintaining high-quality inventory may become increasingly difficult with the advent of deep fake video and other media produced using artificial intelligence (AI). If we fail to maintain high quality controls for our publishers and partners, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, the viewability of ad impressions is important to certain advertisers because it enables them to assess the value of particular ad impressions as a means to reach a target audience. However, there is no consensus regarding the definition of viewability or the minimum standard viewability thresholds and metrics that should apply for different ad formats. We cannot predict whether consensus views will emerge, or what they will be. Incorporating accepted viewability approaches fully into our business as they evolve will require us to incur additional costs to integrate relevant technologies and process additional information through our platform. In addition, ad impressions that are well differentiated on the basis of viewability will also typically be differentiated on the basis of value, with those that are less viewable valued lower. In this context, if we are not able to effectively transact ad impressions with higher viewability and to incorporate appropriate viewability capabilities into our platform, we could be competitively disadvantaged and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions or strategic investments could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of management, and could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire or invest in other businesses, assets, or technologies that we believe are complementary to and fit within our strategic goals. Any acquisition or investment may divert the attention of management and require us to use significant amounts of cash, issue dilutive equity securities, or incur debt. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities would dilute your stock ownership, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment may not be realized, and we may be exposed to unknown risks, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, including risks arising from: difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, product or service offerings, administrative systems, and personnel of acquired businesses; ineffectiveness or incompatibility of acquired technologies or solutions; potential loss of key employees of the acquired business; inability to maintain key business relationships and reputation of the acquired business; litigation arising from the acquisition or the activities of the acquired business; failure to generate the expected financial results related to an acquisition in a timely manner or at all; failure to accurately forecast the impact of an acquisition; and implementation or remediation of effective controls, procedures, and policies for acquired businesses. We rely on publishers, buyers, and partners to abide by contractual requirements and relevant laws, rules, and regulations when using our platform, and legal claims or enforcement actions resulting from their actions could expose us to liabilities, damage our reputation, and be costly to defend. The publishers, buyers, and partners engaging in transactions through our platform impose various requirements upon each other, and they and the underlying advertisers are subject to regulatory requirements by governments and standards bodies applicable to their activities. We may assume responsibility for satisfying or facilitating the satisfaction of some of these requirements through the contracts we enter into with publishers, buyers, and partners. In addition, we may have responsibility for some acts or omissions of publishers, buyers, or partners transacting business through our platform under applicable laws or regulations or as a result of common law duties, even if we have not assumed responsibility contractually. These responsibilities could expose us to significant liabilities and we may not have the ability to impose effective mitigating controls upon, or to recover from, publishers and buyers. Moreover, for those third parties who are both publishers and buyers on our platform, it is feasible that they could use our platform to buy and sell advertisements in an effort to inflate their own revenue. We could be subject to litigation as a result of such actions, and, if we were sued, we would incur legal costs in our defense and cannot guarantee that a court would not attribute some liability to us. We contractually require our publishers, buyers, data providers, and partners to abide by relevant laws, rules and regulations, and restrictions by their counterparties, when transacting on our platform, and we generally attempt to obtain representations from buyers that the advertising they place through our platform complies with applicable laws and regulations and does not violate third-party intellectual property rights, and from publishers about the quality and characteristics of the impressions they provide. We also generally receive representations from publishers, buyers, and data providers about their privacy practices and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including their maintenance of adequate privacy policies that disclose and permit our data collection practices. Nonetheless, there are many circumstances in which it is difficult or impossible for us to monitor or evaluate compliance by our publishers, buyers, data providers, and partners. For example, we cannot control the content of publishers media properties, and we are often unable to determine exactly what information a partner collects after an ad has been placed, and how the buyer uses any such collected information. Moreover, we are unable to prevent DSPs from aggregating bid requests from publishers and directing it to their own buying platforms or even reselling such bid data to advertisers or third parties. If publishers, buyers, data providers, or partners fail to abide by relevant laws, rules and regulations, or contractual requirements when transacting over our platform, or after such a transaction is completed, we could potentially face liability to consumers for such misuse. Potential sources of liability to consumers include malicious activities, such as the introduction of malware into consumers computers through advertisements served through our platform, and code that redirects consumers to sites other than the ones consumers sought to visit, potentially resulting in malware downloads or use charges from the redirect site. In such an event, consumers may look to PubMatic to recover any alleged damages as a result of publishers use of limitations or disclaimers of liability through their terms of use with consumers. Similarly, if such misconduct results in enforcement action by a regulatory body or other governmental authority, we could become involved in a potentially time-consuming and costly investigation or we could be subject to litigation or some form of sanction or penalty. We may not have adequate indemnity to protect us against, and our insurance policies, may not cover, such claims and losses. 25 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our stock and diminish our cash reserves. In February 2023, our board of directors authorized and approved the 2023 Repurchase Program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to $75.0 million in aggregate of shares of our Class A common stock, with the authorization to expire on December 31, 2024. On February 22, 2024, our board of directors authorized an increase to our share repurchase program for the repurchase of shares of our Class A common stock from $75.0 million to $175.0 million through December 31, 2025. As of December 31, 2023, we have repurchased approximately $59.3 million of our Class A common stock under the program. Although our board of directors has authorized the 2023 Repurchase Program, the program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares of our Class A common stock. The actual timing and amount of repurchases remain subject to a variety of factors, including stock price, trading volume, market conditions and other general business considerations, all of which may be negatively impacted by macroeconomic conditions and factors, including, for example, rising interest rates, inflation, and the wars in Ukraine and Israel. The 2023 Repurchase Program may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time, and we cannot guarantee that the 2023 Repurchase Program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. The program could affect the trading price of our Class A common stock, increase volatility and diminish our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, and any announcement of a termination of this program may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. Our business is subject to the risk of catastrophic events such as pandemics, earthquakes, flooding, fire, and power outages, and to interruption by man-made problems such as acts of war and terrorism. Our business is vulnerable to damage or interruption from pandemics, earthquakes, flooding, fire, power outages, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins, and similar events. A significant natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. We have one office and one data center facility located in California, a state known for seismic activity. Significant portions of our development and advertising operations work is located in Pune, India, which is susceptible to earthquakes and flooding. In addition, economic or political instability caused by the conflicts in Ukraine, or Israel or international responses thereto, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Furthermore, acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas that have higher population density than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our or our publishers and partners businesses or the economy as a whole. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, denial-of-service attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in some circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting California, New York, Virginia, or Pune, India. As we rely heavily on our data center facilities, computer and communications systems, and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high-quality customer service, these disruptions could negatively impact our ability to operate our business and either directly or indirectly disrupt publishers and partners businesses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents We use artificial intelligence in our business, and challenges with properly managing its use could result in reputational harm, competitive harm, and legal liability, and adversely affect our results of operations. We currently incorporate AI solutions into our specialized cloud software, including audience solutions, and these applications may become more important in our operations over time. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products and offerings more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if the content, analyses, or recommendations that AI applications assist in producing are or are alleged to be inaccurate, deficient, or biased, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, AI applications generally state they do not use personal information or other classes of protected information, but we may not know the source of data used by an AI application and may inadvertently incorporate personal information, or data derived from personal information, in the course of using an AI application. The use of AI applications has resulted in, and may in the future result in, cybersecurity incidents that implicate the sensitive data of customers analyzed within such applications. Any such cybersecurity incidents related to our use of AI applications for analysis of sensitive data could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. If we include portions of our proprietary information when using AI tools, that information may enter the public domain and we may lose the ability to protect such proprietary information. AI also presents emerging ethical issues and if our use of AI becomes controversial, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, or legal liability. The rapid evolution of AI, including potential government regulation of AI and its various uses, will require significant resources to develop, test, and maintain our intelligence cloud platform, offerings, services, and features to help us implement AI ethically in order to minimize unintended, harmful impact. Risks Related to Regulations We are subject to constantly evolving laws, regulations and industry requirements related to data privacy, data protection, information security, and consumer protection across the markets we operate in. We receive, store, and process data about or related to consumers in addition to publisher, buyer, partner, employee, and services provider or vendor data. Our handling of this data is subject to numerous federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations that are constantly evolving and not always consistent across jurisdictions. We are also subject to regulation by various governmental authorities in addition to federal and state regulations. Our data handling is further subject to contractual obligations and may be deemed to be subject to industry standards and trade associations. The U.S. federal government and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use, and storage of data relating to individuals, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the United States, various laws and regulations apply to the collection, processing, disclosure, and security of certain types of data. Additionally, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. These regulatory regimes are constantly evolving and not always interpreted in a consistent manner. If we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions that may not only expose us to litigation, fines, and civil and/or criminal penalties, but also require us to change our business practices, each of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The regulatory framework for data privacy issues worldwide is evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The occurrence of unanticipated events often rapidly drives the adoption of legislation or regulation affecting the use, collection, or other processing of data and manners in which we conduct our business. Restrictions have been placed upon the collection, management, aggregation, and use of information, and compliance with those restrictions may require us to change how we collect, manage, aggregate, and use data in the future, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting or otherwise obtaining certain kinds of data.These restrictions could further limit the ways in which we may use or disclose information, or may require us to make changes to our offerings, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In particular, interest-based advertising, or the use of data to draw inferences about a users interests and deliver relevant advertising to that user, and similar or related practices (sometimes referred to as behavioral advertising or personalized advertising), such as cross-device data collection and aggregation, have come under increasing scrutiny by legislative, regulatory, and self-regulatory bodies in the United States and abroad that focus on consumer protection or data privacy.In addition, the steps taken by companies to de-identify personal data, to use and distribute the resulting data, including for purposes of personalization and the targeting of advertisements, have also been a frequent target of scrutiny by these authorities. Much of the related regulatory activity has focused on the use of cookies and other technology to collect information about Internet users online browsing activity on web browsers, mobile devices, and other devices, to associate such data with user or device identifiers or de-identified identities across devices and channels. 27 Table of Contents In addition to governmental authorities, providers of Internet browsers have engaged in, or announced plans to continue or expand, efforts to provide increased visibility into, and certain controls over, cookies and similar technologies and the data collected using such technologies. For example, Google announced on January 4, 2024, that it was disabling third-party cookies for 1% of Chrome users with plans to disable third-party cookies for additional Chrome users in the latter half of the year. Because we, and our customers, rely upon large volumes of such data collected primarily through cookies and similar technologies, it is possible that these efforts may have a substantial impact on our ability to collect and use data from Internet users, and it is essential that we monitor developments in this area domestically and globally, and engage in responsible privacy practices, including providing consumers with notice of the types of data we collect and how we use that data to provide our services. In the United States, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures, along with federal regulatory authorities have increased their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data. In the United States, non-sensitive consumer data generally may be used under current rules and regulations, subject to certain restrictions, so long as the person does not affirmatively opt-out of the collection or use of such data. If an opt-in model or other more restrictive regulations were to be adopted in the United States, less data would be available, and the cost of data would be higher. California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) which took effect in January 2020 and was later amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), with those amendments taking effect in January 2023. The CCPA, as amended by the CPRA, is referred to as the CCPA. The CCPA created individual privacy rights for California residents, including rights of deletion and access, and increased the privacy and security obligations of businesses handling personal data. The CCPA is also still enforceable by the California Attorney General, and there is a CCPA private right of action relating to certain data security incidents. The CCPA generally requires covered businesses to, among other things, provide new disclosures to California consumers regarding the collection, use and disclosure of their personal information. The CCPA also affords California consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information, a concept that is defined broadly and is subject to evolving regulations promulgated initially by the California Attorney General, and now the California Privacy Protection Agency (CPPA), a newly created agency under the CPRA charged with CCPA rulemaking and enforcement. The CPRA also imposed additional data protection obligations on companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes and opt-outs for certain uses of sensitive data and sharing of personal information for cross-context behavioral advertising While new CCPA regulations have been introduced, enforcement of some have been initially delayed through court orders but such enforcement is expected to begin in March 2024. The effects of the CCPA, including from expected but not yet promulgated regulations, are potentially significant and may require us to modify our data collection or processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply, which will increase our potential exposure to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation. Decreased availability and increased costs of information due to implementing the CCPA, could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers requirements and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The CCPA has encouraged copycat laws in other states across the country. Following Californias lead, several other states enacted privacy laws that took effect in 2023: the Colorado Privacy Act, the Connecticut Personal Data Privacy and Online Monitoring Act, the Utah Consumer Privacy Act, and the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act. Additional state privacy laws in nine other states have been enacted and are set to take effect between 2024 and 2026: the Florida Digital Bill of Rights (July 1, 2024), Oregons protections for the personal data of consumer enacted through SB 619 (July 1, 2024), the Texas Data Privacy and Security Act (July 1, 2024), Montanas Consumer Data Privacy Act (October 1, 2024), the Delaware Personal Data Privacy Act (January 1, 2025), Iowas Consumer Data Protection Act (January 1, 2025), the New Jersey Senate Bill 332 (January 15, 2025), the Tennessee Information Protection Act (July 1, 2025) and the Indiana Consumer Data Protection Act (January 1, 2026). Compliance with new privacy legislation adds complexity and may require investment in additional resources for compliance programs, thus potentially resulting in additional costs and expense of resources to maintain compliance. We cannot yet fully predict the impact of such state laws or subsequent guidance on our business or operations, but it may require us to further modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. This new proposed legislation may add additional complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions, and potential legal risk, require additional investment in resources to compliance programs, and could impact strategies and availability of previously useful data and could result in increased compliance costs and/or changes in business practices and policies. Although it continues to be introduced as a bill in Congress each year, it remains to be seen whether the U.S. will implement federal consumer privacy legislation. 28 Table of Contents In Europe, the GDPR took effect on May 25, 2018, and applies to products and services that we provide in Europe, as well as the processing of personal data of European Union (EU) citizens, wherever that processing occurs. The United Kingdom (U.K.) implemented the Data Protection Act, effective May 2018, and statutorily amended it in 2019 to contain provisions, including its own derogations, for how GDPR is applied in the U.K. post-Brexit (the UK GDPR). The GDPR includes operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the EU. For example, we are required to offer consent mechanisms to data subjects in Europe before processing data for certain aspects of our service. Failure to comply with GDPR may result in significant penalties for non-compliance of up to the greater of 20 million (17.5 million in the U.K.) or 4% of an enterprises global annual revenue. In addition to the foregoing, a breach of the GDPR could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease/ change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/ or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, and reputational harm. Further, European regulators continue to be focused on compliance with requirements in the online behavioral advertising ecosystem and enforcing national laws that implement the ePrivacy Directive (commonly called the Cookie Directive) in those ecosystems. Notably, discussions continue about replacing the ePrivacy Directive with an EU Regulation known as the ePrivacy Regulation which would significantly increase fines for non-compliance and impose burdensome requirements around obtaining consent. European court decisions and regulators recent guidance continue to drive increased attention to cookies and tracking technologies. As regulators start to enforce a stricter approach (which has already begun to occur in Germany, where data protection authorities have initiated a probe on third-party cookies), this could lead to substantial costs, require significant systems changes, limit the effectiveness of our marketing activities, divert the attention of our technology personnel, adversely affect our margins, increase costs, and subject us to additional liabilities. IAB Europe previously collaborated with the digital advertising industry to create a user-facing framework (the Transparency and Control Framework, or TCF) for establishing and managing legal bases under the GDPR and other U.K. and EU privacy laws including the ePrivacy Directive. Although the TCF is actively in use, its viability as a compliance mechanism is under review by the Belgian Data Protection Authority (DPA) and others and we cannot predict its effectiveness over the long term. In February 2022, the Belgian DPA issued an order against IAB Europe that imposes specific remedies on IAB Europe and its operation of TCF. IAB Europe appealed the Belgian DPAs decision, and recently, the Belgian Market Court issued an interim ruling on the appeal and referred preliminary questions to the CJEU for guidance. It is unclear whether the Belgian DPA will rule on the corrective action plan submitted by the IAB prior to a final judgement on the appeal. Further, other European regulators have questioned TCFs viability and activists have filed complaints with regulators of alleged non-compliance by specific companies that employ the TCF. In addition, some countries, including India, Brazil, Thailand, and Japan, are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services or force us to change business practices to conform to local law. Any failure to achieve required data protection standards (which are not currently clear when applied to the online advertising ecosystem) may result in lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liability, all of which may harm our results of operations. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws, such as the CCPA and GDPR, and their related regulations and standards, are uncertain and sometimes contradictory across jurisdictions, it is possible that these laws, regulations and standards may be interpreted and applied in manners that are, or are asserted to be, inconsistent with our data management practices or the technological features of our solutions. We are also subject to laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive certain data that is critical to our operations, including data shared between countries or regions in which we operate and data shared among our products and services. We are also subject to regulation with respect to political advertising activities, which are governed by various federal and state laws in the United States, and national and provincial laws worldwide. Online political advertising laws are rapidly evolving and our publishers may impose restrictions on receiving political advertising, especially in light of the 2024 elections both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. The lack of uniformity and increasing compliance requirements around political advertising may adversely impact the amount of political advertising spent through our platform, increase our operating and compliance costs, and subject us to potential liability from regulatory agencies. 29 Table of Contents In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us or our customers. We are members of self-regulatory bodies that impose additional requirements related to the collection, use, and disclosure of consumer data. Under the requirements of these self-regulatory bodies, in addition to other compliance obligations, we are obligated to provide consumers with notice about our use of cookies and other technologies to collect consumer data and of our collection and use of consumer data for certain purposes, and to provide consumers with certain choices relating to the use of consumer data. Some of these self-regulatory bodies have the ability to discipline members or participants, which could result in fines, penalties, and/or public censure (which could in turn cause reputational harm) being imposed on us. Additionally, some of these self-regulatory bodies might refer violations of their requirements to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission or other regulatory bodies. If we were to be found responsible for such a violation, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Legal uncertainty and industry unpreparedness for new regulations may mean substantial disruption and inefficiency, demand constraints, and reduced inventory supply and value. Some of our publishers may be unprepared to comply with evolving regulatory guidance under the CCPA, CPRA, GDPR, UK GDPR, or other privacy regulations, which may result in removing personal data from their inventory before passing it into the bid stream. This may lower their inventory, at least temporarily, resulting in loss of ad spend and revenue for us. Further, since we do not have direct relationships with end users, we rely on publishers to obtain such consents as required and may be subject to liability, including fines, lawsuits, and other penalties, if they fail to adhere to evolving consent requirements. While we can and do provide training and guidance on compliance, the nature of the digital advertising ecosystem and technology, without direct access to the end user, does not support 100% verification that consent from end users has been obtained, when required by applicable law or regulations, and we may inadvertently process personal data when we should not be. This exposes us to potential regulatory scrutiny, investigations, fines, penalties, and other legal and financial exposure. Additionally, privacy and data protection laws are evolving, and it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our safeguards and practices that could result in fines, lawsuits, and other penalties, and significant changes to our publishers business practices and inventory. Even well-prepared publishers and buyers may be confronted with difficult choices and administrative and technical hurdles as they implement compliance programs and integrate with multiple other parties in the ecosystem. Further, compliance program design and implementation will be an ongoing process as understanding of the CCPA, CPRA, GDPR, UK GDPR, increasing numbers of U.S. state privacy laws, or other emerging regulations and industry compliance standards, evolves and companies address sometimes conflicting compliance guidance. In addition to California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Iowa, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, and Virginia have all enacted regulations that may apply to our business, and we expect more state legislatures or regulatory agencies to do the same. The resulting process friction could result in substantial inefficiency and loss of inventory and demand, as well as increased burdens upon our organization as we seek to assist customers and adapt our own technology and processes as necessary to comply with laws and regulations and adapt to industry practice. The uncertain regulatory environment caused by the CCPA, GDPR, UK GDPR, increasing numbers of U.S. state privacy laws, or other emerging regulations may disadvantage us in comparison to larger, integrated competitors such as Google and Meta (Facebook), which have greater compliance resources and can take advantage of their direct relationships with end users to secure consent directly from those users. Changes in the business practices of such large integrated competitors could impose additional requirements with respect to the retention and security of our handling or ability to handle customer and end user data, could limit our marketing and core business activities, and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Recent rulings from the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated the EU-US Privacy Shield as a lawful means for transferring personal data from the European Union to the United States; this introduces increased uncertainty and may require us to change our EU data practices and/or rely on an alternative legally sufficient compliance measure. The GDPR generally prohibits the transfer of personal data of EU subjects outside of the European Union to another country that the European Commission does not recognize as offering an adequate level of data protection unless a lawful data transfer mechanism has been implemented or a data transfer derogation applies. On July 16, 2020, in a case known as Schrems II, the Court of Justice of the European Union (the CJEU) ruled on the validity of two of the primary data transfer mechanisms. The first mechanism called the EU-US Privacy Shield operated by the U.S. Department of Commerce was declared invalid as a legal mechanism to transfer data from Europe to the United States in 2020. As a result, despite the fact that we certified our compliance to the EU-US Privacy Shield, our customers were no longer able to rely on this mechanism as a lawful means to transfer European data to us in the United States. 30 Table of Contents This was the case until October 2022, when the Biden administration negotiated new privacy transfer terms with EU regulators, and signed an Executive Order in October 2022 directing the steps the United States will take to implement its commitments to the EU/US data privacy framework. On July 10, 2023, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision for the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, and we have self-certified to comply with the EU - U.S. Data Privacy Framework, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework as a mechanism to legally facilitate personal data transfers from the EU, the U.K., and Switzerland to the U.S. This new Data Privacy Framework could be subject to legal challenge in front of the CJEU, where non-governmental organizations successfully litigated to invalidate the Privacy Shield in 2020. The second mechanism called the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) is an alternative transfer measure that we also offer to our EU and UK customers for cross-border data transfers that was upheld as a valid legal mechanism for transnational data transfers by the CJEU. However, the ruling requires that European organizations seeking to rely on the SCCs to export data out of the European Union must ensure the data is protected to a standard that is essentially equivalent to that in the European Union, including, where necessary, by taking supplementary measures to protect the data. Although supplementary measures are not explicitly defined, it is possible that European data protection authorities may determine that there are no supplementary measures that can legitimize EU-US data transfers. For the time being, we will rely on the DPF and SCCs for EU-US transfers of EU personal data and explore what supplementary measures can implemented to protect EU personal data that is transferred to us in the United States. SCCs also contemplate data received from a third party, but may not cover data that is collected directly on behalf of a third party. In June 2021, the European Commission further updated the SCCs to require additional information for cross-border data transfers. It remains possible that the SCCs may be later determined inadequate to cover our use of cookies and other tracking technologies placed directly on consumers browsers or devices through our publishers or buyers websites. We may also need to continue to restructure our data export practices because of Brexit. Personal data may not be able to flow freely between the European Union and the United Kingdom, and our United Kingdom subsidiaries may need to enter into SCCs and adopt supplementary measures both with customers and other group entities, in order to ensure the continuing flow of data to and from the United Kingdom subsidiary. On June 28, 2021, the European Commission issued an adequacy decision for personal data transfers from the EEA to the U.K., with a sunset clause of four years, meaning that the European Commission will review and renew only if the European Commission considers that the U.K. continues to ensure an adequate level of data protection. Notably, the European Commission reserved a right to intervene at any time during the four-year adequacy period if the U.K. deviates from the level of protection then in place. If this adequacy decision is reversed by the European Commission, we would have to implement protection measures such as the SCCs for personal data transfers between the EU and the U.K. or find alternative solutions for the compliant transfer of personal data from the EU into the U.K. In March 2022, the U.K. Information Commissioners Office adopted an International Data Transfer Agreement (IDTA) for transfers of personal data out of the U.K. to so-called third countries, as well as an international data transfer addendum (U.K. SCC Addendum) that can be used with the SCCs for the same purpose. Depending on evolving legal developments, we may need to restructure our transfers of European data via another European subsidiary and have such entity enter into SCCs with other group entities and implement supplementary measures to ensure the continuing flow of data from the European Union to the United States. In the event that use of the SCCs is subsequently invalidated as a solution for data transfers to the United States, or there are additional changes to the data protection regime in the European Union resulting in any inability to transfer personal data from the European Union to the United States in compliance with data protection laws, European customers may be more inclined to work with businesses that do not rely on such compliance mechanisms to ensure legal and regulatory compliance, such as EU-based companies or other competitors that do not need to transfer personal data to the United States in order to avoid the above-identified risks and legal issues. Such changes could cause us to incur penalties under GDPR and UK GDPR and could increase the cost and complexity of operating our business. 31 Table of Contents Our failure or the failure of third parties to protect our sites, networks and systems against security breaches, or otherwise to protect our confidential information, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results. We collect, maintain, transmit and store data about consumers, employees, partners and others, including personal and other confidential information. We also engage third parties that store, process, and transmit these types of information on our behalf. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties in an effort to securely transmit confidential and sensitive information, including payment information. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the whole or partial failure of this technology to protect transaction data or other confidential and sensitive information from being breached or compromised. In addition, ecommerce websites are often attacked through compromised credentials, including those obtained through phishing and credential stuffing. Our security measures, and those of our third-party service providers, might not detect or prevent all attempts to breach our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches, ransomware, credential stuffing attacks, or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in or transmitted by our websites, networks, and systems or that we or such third parties otherwise maintain, including payment card systems, which may subject us to fines, higher transaction fees, or limit or terminate our access to certain payment methods. We and such third parties might not anticipate, prevent, or detect attacks until after they have already been launched. Further, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage, systems change frequently and might not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers. In addition, security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or by third parties. These risks can increase over time as the complexity and number of technical systems and applications we use also increases. Breaches of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers on whom we rely or other cyber security incidents could result in unauthorized access to our mobile applications, sites, networks and systems; unauthorized access to and misappropriation of data and customer information, including customers personally identifiable information, or other confidential or proprietary information of ourselves or third parties; viruses, worms, spyware or other malware being served from our mobile applications, sites, networks or systems; deletion or modification of content or the display of unauthorized content on our mobile applications or sites; interruption, disruption or malfunction of operations; costs relating to breach remediation, deployment of additional personnel and protection technologies, response to governmental investigations and media inquiries and coverage; engagement of third-party experts and consultants; litigation; regulatory action; investigations, fines or penalties, and other potential liabilities. In the future, we or our third-party service providers may experience social engineering, ransomware, phishing, malware and similar attacks and threats of denial-of-service attacks and such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. If any of these breaches of security should occur, our reputation and brand could be damaged, our business may suffer, we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation or regulatory action and possible liability. We cannot guarantee that recovery protocols and backup systems will be sufficient to prevent data loss. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a users password could access the users transaction data or personal information, resulting in the perception that our systems are insecure. Many U.S. and foreign laws and regulations require companies to provide notice of data security breaches and/or incidents involving certain types of personal data to individuals, the media, government authorities or other third parties. In addition, some of our customers contractually require notification of data security breaches. Any compromise or breach of our security measures, or those of our third-party service providers, could cause significant legal and financial exposure, adverse publicity, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. There can be no assurance that any limitations of liability provisions in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim arising from a cyber incident. We also cannot be sure that our existing cyber insurance coverage, general liability insurance coverage, and coverage for errors or omissions will fully cover such incidents, will continue to be available on acceptable terms, or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. One or more large, successful claims against us in excess of our available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents Failure to comply with industry self-regulation could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition to complying with government regulations, we participate in trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups such as the Interactive Advertising Bureau and the Networking Advertising Initiative that promote best practices or codes of conduct addressing privacy. For example, we have undertaken to comply with industry codes of conduct in the United States and Europe. On our website, we offer consumers the ability to opt out of receiving advertisements based on cookies or other technologies. If we encounter difficulties implementing such guidelines, or our opt-out mechanisms fail to work as designed, we may experience negative publicity and be the subject of investigations or litigation. Any representations that we make regarding our adherence to self-regulatory standards could result in regulatory action if we fail to meet such representations. Any regulatory action against us could be costly and time consuming, require us to change our business practices, cause us to divert managements attention and our resources, and be damaging to our reputation and our business. New self-regulatory guidelines that are inconsistent with our practices or in conflict with applicable laws and regulations in the United States and other countries where we do business could arise. If we fail to abide by or are perceived as not operating in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and industry best practices, or any industry guidelines or codes with regard to privacy or the provision of Internet advertising, our reputation may suffer and we could lose market share or relationships with our publishers, buyers, or others. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that may apply to us, and are constantly evolving in the United States, European Union, and other jurisdictions. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws, regulations, rules, and other standards are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws, rules, regulations, and other actual or alleged legal obligations, such as contractual or self-regulatory obligations, may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the functionality of our platform. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits, and other claims, we could be required to change our offerings or business activities and practices or modify our software, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to governmental economic sanctions requirements and export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to civil or criminal liability. We are subject to various U.S. export control and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations and the various sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (collectively, Trade Controls). U.S. Trade Controls may prohibit the shipment of specified products and services to certain countries, governments, and persons. Although we endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with Trade Controls, our limited ability to oversee and control the inventory of our channel partners or our failure to successfully comply may expose us to negative legal and business consequences, including civil or criminal penalties, governmental investigations, and reputational harm. Furthermore, if we export our technology or software, the exports may require authorizations, including a license, a license exception, or other appropriate government authorization or regulatory requirements. Complying with Trade Controls may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of opportunities. In addition, various countries regulate the import of encryption technology, including the imposition of import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to offer our platform or could limit our customers ability to use our platform in those countries. Changes in our platform or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our platform in certain markets or prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our platform globally. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform by, or in our decreased ability to export our technology and services to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export our platform could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages, and could limit our ability to use technology or intellectual property. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. There is a risk that our business, platform, and services may infringe or be alleged to infringe the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents held by our competitors or by non-practicing entities. We could be subject to third party claims if our publishers or buyers do not have sufficient rights to the content, technology, data, or other material associated with an ad impression that they provide, or if it infringes or is alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of other parties. We may also face allegations that our employees have misappropriated or divulged the intellectual property of their former employers or other third parties. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property rights of others have any merit, the claims are time consuming, divert management attention and financial resources, and are costly to evaluate and defend. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the cost of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater extent and for longer periods of time than we could. Due to the cost of litigation, we may choose to enter into license agreements with third parties alleging infringement even when we do not believe our business, platform, or services infringe on third parties intellectual property rights. Results of intellectual property litigation matters are difficult to predict and may require us to stop offering some features, purchase licenses, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all, or modify our technology or our platform while we develop non-infringing substitutes, or incur significant settlement costs. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult to enforce and protect, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our technology without compensating us, thereby eroding our competitive advantages and having an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets protections, third-party confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, contractual restrictions on disclosure and use, and trademark, copyright, patent, and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright laws to protect computer programs related to our platform and our proprietary technologies, although to date we have not registered for statutory copyright protection. In order to bring a copyright infringement lawsuit in the United States, the copyright must be registered. Accordingly, the remedies and damages available to us for unauthorized use of our software or products may be limited. Historically, we have prioritized keeping our technology architecture, trade secrets, and engineering roadmap private, and as a general matter, have not patented our proprietary technology. As a result, we cannot look to patent enforcement rights to protect much of our proprietary technology. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that others will not independently develop technology with the same or similar functions to our proprietary technology that we rely on to conduct our business and differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop applications with the same functionality as our offerings, and policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and may not be effective. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those of the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights (including in particular, the proprietary aspects of our offerings) we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who have not incurred the same level of expense, time, and effort to create and protect their intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. While it is our policy to protect and defend our rights to our intellectual property, especially via trade secrets protections, we cannot predict whether steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement, misappropriation, dilution, or other violations of our intellectual property rights. Third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, third parties may challenge intellectual property rights held by us, and pending and future trademark and patent applications may not be approved. These claims may result in restrictions on our use of our intellectual property or the conduct of our business. In any of these cases, we may be required to expend significant time and expense to prevent infringement or to enforce our rights. 34 Table of Contents Our customer agreements generally restrict the use of our confidential information solely to such customers use in connection with its use of our offerings. In spite of such limitations, reverse engineering our software and feature sets, or the theft or misuse of our confidential information, could occur by customers or other third parties who have access to our technology, and we may fail to detect such theft or misuse in a timely manner. We also endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors in order to limit access to and disclosure of our confidential information, as well as to clarify rights to intellectual property and technology associated with our business. These agreements may not effectively grant all necessary rights to any inventions that may have been developed by such employees or consultants. In addition, these agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property, or technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property, or technology. Furthermore, protecting our intellectual property is particularly challenging after our employees or contractors end their relationship with us, and, in some cases, decide to work for our competitors. Enforceability of the non-compete agreements that we have in place is not guaranteed, and contractual restrictions could be breached without us becoming aware of such breach or adequate remedies available to us. We rely on licenses to use the intellectual property rights of third parties to conduct our business. We rely on products, technologies, and intellectual property that we license from third parties for use in operating our business. We cannot assure you that these third-party licenses, or support for such licensed products and technologies, will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of others or that our suppliers and licensors have sufficient rights to the technology in all jurisdictions in which we may operate. Some of our license agreements may be terminated by our licensors for convenience. If we are unable to obtain or maintain rights to any of this technology because of intellectual property infringement claims brought by third parties against our suppliers and licensors or against us, or if we are unable to continue to obtain the technology or enter into new agreements on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to operate and expand our business could be adversely affected. Our platform relies on third-party open source software components. Failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could expose us to liabilities, and the combination of open source software with code that we develop could compromise the proprietary nature of our platform. Our platform utilizes software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we expect to continue to utilize open source software in the future. The use of open source software may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. To the extent that our platform depends upon the successful operation of the open source software we use, any undetected errors or defects in this open source software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our platform, delay new solutions introductions, result in a failure of our platform, and harm our reputation. For example, undetected errors or defects in open source software could render it vulnerable to breaches or security attacks, and, in conjunction, make our systems more vulnerable to data breaches. Furthermore, some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a specific manner, we could, under some open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar solutions with lower development cost, effort, and time, and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our platform to conditions we do not intend or requirements to disclose source code, we cannot assure you that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our platform will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue operating using our offerings on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our solution or the supporting computational infrastructure to discontinue use of code, or to make generally available, in source code form, portions of our proprietary code. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Financial and Accounting Matters If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements and other disclosures on a timely basis could be impaired. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure