ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect, and similar expressions. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to maintain our growth and profitability, our ability to attract and retain publishers, and our expectations concerning the advertising industry. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Overview We are an independent technology company seeking to maximize customer value by delivering digital advertisings supply chain of the future. Our sell-side platform empowers the worlds leading digital content creators across the open internet to control access to their inventory and increase monetization by enabling marketers to drive ROI and reach addressable audiences across ad formats and devices. Since 2006, our infrastructure-driven approach has allowed for the efficient processing and utilization of data in real time. By delivering scalable and flexible programmatic innovation, we improve outcomes for our customers while championing a vibrant and transparent digital advertising supply chain. Our specialized cloud infrastructure platform provides superior monetization for publishers by increasing the value of an impression and providing incremental demand through our deep and growing relationships with buyers. We are aligned with our publisher and app developer partners by being independent. We do not own media and therefore do not have a vested interest in driving ad revenue to specific media properties. Our global platform is omnichannel, supporting a wide array of ad formats and digital device types, including mobile app, mobile web, desktop, display, video, over-the-top (OTT), connected television (CTV), and rich media. In March 2023, our platform efficiently processed approximately 516 billion ad impressions daily, each in a fraction of a second. As of March 31, 2023, we served approximately 1,700 publishers and app developers representing over 97,000 individual domains and apps worldwide on our platform across a diverse group of content verticals such as news, e-commerce, gaming, media, weather, fashion, technology, and more, including many of the leading digital companies such as Yahoo, formerly Verizon Media Group, and News Corp. We have demonstrated that we can retain and grow revenues from our publisher customers, as evidenced by our net dollar-based retention rate of 105% for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2023 and 140% for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2022. We generate revenue from publishers primarily through revenue share agreements, generally one-year contracts that renew automatically for successive one-year periods, unless terminated prior to renewal. We primarily work with publishers and app developers who allow us direct access to their ad inventory, as well as select channel partners that meet our quality and scale thresholds. We refer to our publishers, app developers, and channel partners collectively as our publishers. 17 Table of Contents We enter into written service agreements with our DSP buyers that allow them to use our platform to buy ad inventory, but we earn revenue from our publishers. Our platform service agreements with DSPs generally have one-year terms that renew automatically for successive one-year periods, unless terminated prior to renewal. We also negotiate Supply Path Optimization (SPO) agreements with agencies and advertisers that encourage these buyers to spend a higher share of their advertising budgets on our platform. SPO agreements typically have a one-year term and renewal terms are generally discussed one quarter prior to a new term. The effect of these SPO agreements is to increase the volume of ad spend on our platform without corresponding increases in technology costs. In the first quarter of 2023, mobile (including mobile video) and video (including OTT/CTV) combined comprised approximately 71% of our revenue. We anticipate mobile to continue increasing as a percentage of our total impressions and revenue in the future. We further expect video to constitute an increasingly important component of our business. Macroeconomic Factors and COVID-19 Ongoing interest rate increases, foreign currency fluctuation, persistent inflation in the U.S. and other markets globally and recent turmoil in the global banking and finance system may increase the risk of economic volatility and dislocation in the capital or credit markets in the U.S. or globally. To date, we have not observed material impacts in our business or outlook, but we intend to continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions closely and may determine to take certain financial or operational actions in response to such conditions to the extent our business begins to be adversely impacted. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants resulted, and may continue to result, in a global slowdown of economic activity across a broad variety of goods and services, including those provided by certain of the advertisers on our platform. This situation could also potentially limit our ad buyers budgets or disrupt sales channels and advertising and marketing activities generally. As new variants of COVID-19 emerge and global governments take a variety of approaches to limiting its spread, these disruptive effects may continue for an unknown period of time, with varied effects across markets. The impact of the pandemic on our future growth and our results of operations is unknown and we are unable to accurately predict the future impact. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on a variety of factors, including the duration and spread of the virus, including new variants, and its impact on our publishers, ad buyers, industry, and employees, all of which are uncertain at this time and cannot be accurately predicted. See Risk Factors for further discussion of the risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, rising interest rates, and foreign currency fluctuations on our business. Business Highlights The table below summarizes the financial highlights of our business performance: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue $ 55,407 $ 54,552 Operating income (loss) $ (10,672) $ 4,581 Net income (loss) $ (5,871) $ 4,779 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 8,388 $ 17,006 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 12,754 $ 19,314 _______________ (1)For a definition of Adjusted EBITDA, an explanation of our managements use of this measure, and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, see Non-GAAP Financial Measure. 18 Table of Contents Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe our growth and financial performance are dependent on many factors, including those described below. Growing access to valuable ad impressions Our recent growth has been driven by a variety of factors including increased access to mobile web (display and video) and mobile app (display and video) impressions and desktop video impressions. Our performance is affected by our ability to maintain and grow our access to valuable ad impressions from current publishers as well as through new relationships with publishers. The number of ad impressions processed on our platform was approximately 46.5 trillion and 32.6 trillion for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Monetizing ad impressions for publishers and buyers We focus on monetizing digital impressions by coordinating daily over a hundred billion real-time auctions and nearly a trillion bids globally, using our specialized cloud software, machine learning algorithms, and scaled transaction infrastructure. Valuable ad impressions are transparent and data rich, viewable by humans, and verifiable. Each ad impression we auction consists of over 510 independent data parameters, which can yield valuable insights if recorded and analyzed properly. This processing of voluminous data for each ad impression must occur in less than half a second as consumers expect a seamless digital ad experience. By deploying our specialized software and hardware and continuously optimizing our machine learning algorithms, we are able to derive superior outcomes by increasing advertiser return on investment (ROI) and publisher revenue, while increasing the cost efficiency of our platform and our customers businesses. We continually assess impressions from new and existing publishers through a rigorous validation process. We add or remove impressions from our platform based on an assessment of the projected value of the impressions, which is influenced by the type of publisher and its related consumers, as well as the potential volume of monetizable impressions and ad format types, such as digital video. We continuously create and iterate algorithms that leverage vast datasets flowing through our infrastructure to improve the liquidity in our marketplace. Our ability to drive successful outcomes in the real-time auction process on behalf of our publishers and buyers will affect our operating results. Identifying valuable ad impressions that we can profitably monetize at scale We continuously review our available inventory from existing publishers across every format (mobile, desktop, digital video, OTT, CTV, and rich media). The factors we consider to determine which impressions we process include transparency, viewability, and whether or not the impression is human sourced. By consistently applying these criteria, we believe that the ad impressions we process will be valuable and marketable to advertisers. In addition, using a combination of proprietary analysis driven by machine learning algorithms that are continuously updated along with specialized third-party tools, we aim to exclude low value impressions from our platform and, in some cases, may suspend certain publishers, or particular publisher sites and apps, from using our platform if they do not meet our standards. Our confidence in our ability to achieve our quality goals is backed by a fraud-free guarantee to all of our buyers which we introduced in 2017. We believe that this rigorous commitment to quality helps us maintain our reputation as a leader in the programmatic advertising ecosystem. Our financial performance depends in part on how efficiently and effectively we can conduct these activities at scale. Increasing revenue from publishers and advertising spend from buyers We leverage our extensive platform capabilities and the subject matter expertise of our team members to grow revenue from our publishers and increase advertising spending from our buyers. Our sales and marketing team includes customer success pods to enhance customer knowledge and implementation of best practices. Once we onboard a new customer, we seek to expand our relationship with existing publishers by establishing multiple header bidding integrations by leveraging our omnichannel capabilities to maximize our access to publishers ad formats and devices, and expanding into the various properties that a publisher may own around the world. We may also up-sell additional products to publisher customers including our header bidding management, identity, and audience solutions. We automate workflow processes whenever feasible to drive predictable and value-added outcomes for our customers and increase productivity of our organization. Net dollar-based retention rate is an important indicator of publisher satisfaction and usage of our platform, as well as potential revenue for future periods. We calculate our net dollar-based retention rate at the end of each quarter for a cumulative twelve months. We calculate our net dollar-based retention rate by starting with the revenue from publishers in the prior trailing twelve-month period (Prior Period Revenue). We then calculate the revenue from these same publishers in the current trailing twelve-month period (Current Period Revenue). Current Period Revenue includes any upsells and is net of contraction or attrition, but excludes revenue from new publishers. Our net dollar-based retention rate equals the Current Period Revenue divided by Prior Period Revenue. Our net dollar-based retention rate was 105% for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2023 and 140% for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2022. 19 Table of Contents We work with DSPs to help them reduce their costs and improve advertiser ROI, which in turn makes us the specialized cloud infrastructure platform of choice for many of our buying partners. As buyers increasingly consolidate their spending with fewer larger technology platforms, we seek to bring an increased proportion of their digital ad spending to our platform through direct deals. We have entered into SPO agreements directly with buyers, advertisers and agencies through various arrangements ranging from custom data and workflow integrations, product features, and volume-based business terms. The effect of these SPO agreements is to increase the volume of ad spend on our platform without corresponding increases in technology costs. Managing industry dynamics We operate in the rapidly evolving digital advertising industry. Due to the scale and complexity of the digital advertising ecosystem, direct sales via manual, person-to-person processes are insufficient for delivering a real-time, personalized ad experience, creating the need for programmatic advertising. In turn, advances in programmatic technologies have enabled publishers to auction their ad inventory to more buyers, simultaneously, and in real time through a process referred to as header bidding. Header bidding has also provided advertisers with transparent access to ad impressions. As advertisers keep pace with ongoing changes in the way that consumers view and interact with digital media there will be further innovation and we anticipate that header bidding will be extended into new areas such as OTT/CTV. We believe our focus on publishers and buyers has allowed us to understand their needs and our ongoing innovation has enabled us to quickly adapt to changes in the industry, develop new solutions and do so cost effectively. Our performance depends on our ability to keep pace with industry changes such as header bidding and the evolving needs of our publishers and buyers while continuing our cost efficiency. Expanding and managing investments We make software and hardware infrastructure investment decisions to meet expected increases in ad impressions on both a global and regional data center level throughout the calendar year based on the projected quantity, ad format type, and associated data requirements. In parallel, we seek to continuously improve our infrastructure utilization. Our ability to identify and monetize high value impressions allows us to operate more efficiently because the cost of processing low-value impressions and high-value impressions are approximately the same. We believe that increasing utilization of our platform leads to improved outcomes for our customers and more efficient and effective operations for us. To achieve improved utilization, we leverage the data on our platform through extensive application of artificial intelligence technologies, including machine learning and natural language processing. The magnitude and timing of our investments in our software and hardware may lead to fluctuations in our operating results. Expanding internationally We plan to continue expanding our international presence and making additional investments in sales and marketing and infrastructure to support our long-term growth and to position ourselves for expected increases in the penetration of programmatic advertising globally. We expect programmatic advertising to grow at different rates in different geographic markets. Our publishers outside of the United States typically have smaller amounts of programmatic inventory, and as a result, our sales and marketing expenses associated with non-U.S. publishers are generally proportionally higher. We are constantly evaluating new markets with a strategy to use our existing infrastructure and adjacent sales offices, or by expanding our infrastructure footprint and placing personnel directly in those markets. Our ability to efficiently expand into new markets will affect our operating results. Managing seasonality The global advertising industry experiences seasonal trends that affect the vast majority of participants in the digital advertising ecosystem. Most notably, advertisers have historically spent relatively more in the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with the holiday shopping season, and relatively less in the first quarter. We expect seasonality trends to continue, and our ability to manage our resources in anticipation of these trends will affect our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measure In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including, in particular, operating income (loss), net cash provided by operating activities, and net income (loss), we believe that Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, unrealized gain, loss or impairment of equity investment, interest income, acquisition-related and other expenses, and provision (benefit) for income taxes. The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss) for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ (5,871) $ 4,779 Add back (deduct): Stock-based compensation 7,059 5,136 Depreciation and amortization 11,432 7,183 Unrealized gain on equity investment (1,373) Interest income (1,891) (122) Acquisition-related and other expenses (1) 1,034 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (3,375) 1,403 Adjusted EBITDA $ 8,388 $ 17,006 _______________ (1)We exclude acquisition-related and other expenses incurred in connection with our acquisition of Martin from Adjusted EBITDA because we do not believe such expenses are reflective of our ongoing core operations. Acquisition-related expenses incurred in connection with our acquisition of Martin include third-party transaction costs. Other expenses incurred in connection with our acquisition of Martin include post-acquisition cash compensation arrangements for certain key acquired employees to be paid ratably over three years following the closing of the acquisition (subject to forfeiture upon termination). For additional information, see Note 7, Business Combination to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Although Adjusted EBITDA is used by many investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, it has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Key Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from publishers who use our platform. Our platform allows publishers to sell, in real time, customized ad inventory to buyers and provides automated inventory management and monetization tools to publishers across various device types and digital ad formats. We generate revenue primarily through fees charged to our publishers, which are generally a percentage of the value of the advertising impressions that publishers monetize on the platform. We report revenue on a net basis. This represents gross billings to buyers, net of amounts we pay publishers. We record our accounts receivable at the amount of gross billings to buyers, net of allowances, for the amounts we are responsible to collect, and we record our accounts payable at the net amount payable to publishers. Accordingly, both accounts receivable and accounts payable appear large in relation to revenue, which is reported on a net basis. Our revenue recognition policies are discussed in more detail under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of data center co-location costs, depreciation expense related to hardware supporting our platform, amortization expense related to capitalized internal-use software development costs, personnel costs, and allocated facilities costs. Personnel costs include salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefit costs, and are primarily attributable to our cloud operations group, which maintains our servers, and our client operations group, which is responsible for the integration of new publishers and buyers and providing customer support for existing customers. We expect cost of revenue to generally increase in absolute dollars in future periods. 21 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Technology and Development. Technology and development expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefits costs, allocated facilities costs, and professional services. These expenses include costs incurred in the development, implementation and maintenance of internal-use software, including platform and related infrastructure. We expend technology and development costs as incurred, except to the extent that such costs are associated with internal-use software development that qualifies for capitalization. We expect technology and development expenses to generally increase in absolute dollars in future periods. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefits costs, for our employees engaged in sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer relationship functions. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to promotional, advertising and marketing activities, allocated facilities costs, travel, and entertainment primarily related to sales activity and professional services. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and employee benefits costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and other administrative employees. General and administrative expenses also include outside consulting, legal and accounting services, allocated facilities costs, and travel and entertainment primarily related to inter-office travel and conferences. Total Other Income (expense), Net Total other income (expense), net consists of interest income, unrealized gain (loss) on equity investment and other income (expense), net. Interest income is generated by investing excess cash into money market accounts and marketable securities. Unrealized gain on equity investment consists of gains on our investment in equity securities, including unrealized gains and losses from market price changes or impairment of securities we continue to hold. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of gains and losses from foreign currency exchange transactions. We believe that investment gains and losses, whether realized from dispositions or unrealized from changes in market prices of equity securities, are generally meaningless in understanding our reported results or evaluating the economic performance of our businesses. These gains and losses have caused and will continue to cause significant volatility in our periodic earnings. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists primarily of federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Our income tax provision (benefit) may be significantly affected by changes to our estimates for tax in jurisdictions in which we operate and other estimates utilized in determining the global effective tax rate. Actual results may also differ from our estimates based on changes in economic conditions. Such changes could have a substantial impact on the income tax provision. We reevaluate the judgments surrounding our estimates and make adjustments, as appropriate, each reporting period. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due to state taxes, foreign tax rate differences, research tax credits, and stock-based compensation. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily on the generation of future taxable income. In considering the need for a valuation allowance, we consider our historical, as well as future projected, taxable income along with other objectively verifiable evidence. Objectively verifiable evidence includes our realization of tax attributes, assessment of tax credits, and utilization of net operating loss carryforwards during the year. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated results of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenue $ 55,407 $ 54,552 Cost of revenue(1) 23,863 17,992 Gross profit 31,544 36,560 Operating expenses(1): Technology and development 6,517 4,773 Sales and marketing 23,127 16,456 General and administrative 12,572 10,750 Total operating expenses 42,216 31,979 Operating income (loss) (10,672) 4,581 Interest income 1,891 122 Other income (expense), net (465) 1,479 Income (loss) before income taxes (9,246) 6,182 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (3,375) 1,403 Net income (loss) $ (5,871) $ 4,779 _______________ (1)Amounts include stock-based compensation expense before tax benefit as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 316 $ 278 Technology and development 1,008 877 Sales and marketing 2,709 1,907 General and administrative 3,026 2,074 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 7,059 $ 5,136 23 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (as percentage of revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 43 33 Gross profit 57 67 Operating expenses: Technology and development 12 9 Sales and marketing 42 30 General and administrative 23 20 Total operating expenses 77 59 Operating income (loss) (20) 8 Interest income 3 Other income (expense), net 3 Income (loss) before income taxes (17) 11 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (6) 3 Net income (loss) (11) % 8 % Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 55,407 $ 54,552 $ 855 2 % Cost of revenue 23,863 17,992 5,871 33 % Gross profit $ 31,544 $ 36,560 $ (5,016) (14) % Gross profit margin 57 % 67 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $0.9 million, or 2%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by increased impressions processed on our platform from both existing and new publishers. As of March 31, 2023, we served approximately 1,700 publishers and app developers worldwide on our platform, which represented over 68,000 domains and 29,000 apps in total, compared to approximately 1,490 publishers and app developers worldwide, which represented approximately 60,000 domains and 23,000 apps in total as of March 31, 2022. For purposes of our publisher count, we aggregate multiple business accounts from separate divisions, segments or subsidiaries into a single master publisher based on our assessment of the related nature of the group. We expect revenue to continue to grow for the remainder of 2023 with omnichannel video, which is the combination of short form video and OTT/CTV, as our primary growth driver. Cost of revenue increased $5.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to a $3.2 million increase in depreciation of data center equipment and amortization of internal-use software, a $1.8 million increase in data centers costs, a $0.4 million increase in support and maintenance costs, and a $0.4 million increase in personnel costs as headcount increased. Overall, our cost of revenue per impression processed for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by approximately 7% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our gross margin of 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased compared to 67% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to infrastructure investments from capacity expansion and engineering projects. We expect the cost of revenue to be higher in 2023 compared to 2022 in absolute dollars as we continue to expand our capacity to process impressions. Cost of revenue may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and period to period, on an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of revenue, depending on revenue levels and the volume of transactions we process supporting those revenues, and the timing and amounts of depreciation and amortization of equipment and software. 24 Table of Contents Technology and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Technology and development $ 6,517 $ 4,773 $ 1,744 37 % Percent of revenue 12 % 9 % The increase in technology and development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due to an increase of $3.2 million in personnel costs as headcount increased, and a $0.4 million increase in facilities costs, partially offset by an increase of $2.1 million related to the capitalization of internal-use software. We expect technology and development expenses to continue to increase in 2023 compared to 2022 in absolute dollars, primarily due to investment in technological innovation and additional headcount. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 23,127 $ 16,456 $ 6,671 41 % Percent of revenue 42 % 30 % Sales and marketing costs for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased primarily due to a $3.3 million increase in personnel costs, a $2.4 million increase in travel expenses, and a $0.9 million increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in 2023 compared to 2022 in absolute dollars primarily due to additional headcount investment and marketing programs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 12,572 $ 10,750 $ 1,822 17 % Percent of revenue 23 % 20 % General and administrative expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to a $1.6 million increase in personnel costs associated with an increase in headcount and higher stock-based compensation costs. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in 2023 compared to 2022 in absolute dollars primarily due to higher compensation. Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 1,891 $ 122 $ 1,769 1,450 % Interest income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year period due to the increase in interest rates. 25 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ (465) $ 1,479 $ (1,944) (131) % Other income (expense), net decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year period due to currency fluctuations. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (3,375) $ 1,403 $ (4,778) (341) % The difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2023 of 37% and the federal statutory income tax rate of 21% was related to the effects of stock-based compensation, foreign and state taxes, partially offset by foreign tax credits, and federal and state research credits. The effective income tax rate was 23% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily due to nondeductible stock-based compensation, a higher tax rate in certain foreign countries where we operate, partially offset by deductions for equity awards and for foreign-sourced revenue, changes in tax reserves, and tax benefit for federal and state research credits. 26 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through utilization of cash generated from operations, as well as sales of equity securities and borrowings under our credit facilities. As of March 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $173.2 million and net working capital, consisting of current assets less current liabilities, of $192.7 million. As of March 31, 2023, we had retained earnings of $122.1 million. Our principal uses of cash are funding our operations and other working capital requirements. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and anticipated net cash provided by operating activities, together with available borrowings under our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if our operating performance during the next 12 months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors. As of March 31, 2023, our material cash requirements included the contractual commitments set forth under Contractual Obligations and Future Cash Requirements. In February 2023, our board of directors authorized the 2023 Repurchase Program. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we repurchased 586,830 shares of Class A common stock under the 2023 Repurchase Program for an aggregate purchase price of $7.9 million. As of March 31, 2023, $67.1 million remained available for future share repurchases under the 2023 Repurchase Program. The U.S. Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was enacted on August 16, 2022 and requires a one percent excise tax on certain share repurchases in excess of shares issued for employee compensation made after December 31, 2022. We do not expect this provision to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. In the future, we may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or through equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional financing by incurring additional indebtedness, we may be subject to increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that could be unfavorable to equity investors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to raise capital could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Senior Secured Credit Facilities Credit Agreement On October 17, 2022, we entered into a Senior Secured Credit Facilities Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with the several lenders parties thereto (the Lenders), and Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), as administrative agent, lead arranger, issuing lender, and swingline lender. The Credit Agreement matures on October 17, 2027. In connection with the entry into the Credit Agreement, our previous loan and security agreement, as amended, was terminated. The Credit Agreement provides a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $110.0 million (the Revolving Credit Facility), including a $25.0 million letter of credit sub-facility and a $25.0 million swingline sub-facility. Our obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility and the letter of credit sub-facility (described in Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) with SVB are secured by substantially all our assets excluding our intellectual property. We may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility in an amount not to exceed $90.0 million in the aggregate (the Incremental Facility). Each Lender will have discretion to determine whether it will participate in any Incremental Facility. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will accrue interest at rates equal, at our election, to (i) the applicable secured overnight financing rate (SOFR), plus the applicable margin for such loans, or (ii) the alternate base rate (ABR), which is defined as the highest of (a) the prime rate in effect from time to time, (b) the federal funds effective rate in effect from time to time plus 0.50%, and (c) the adjusted term SOFR for a one (1) month tenor in effect from time to time plus 1.0%, plus the applicable margin for such loans. The applicable margin for borrowings bearing interest on the SOFR ranges from 2.00% to 2.75%, and the applicable margin for borrowings bearing interest based on the ABR ranges from 1.00% to 1.75%. We will pay a quarterly commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement for the non-use of available funds ranging from 0.25% to 0.35%. In addition, the Credit Agreement provides a mechanism to determine a successor reference rate to the applicable reference rate if, among other things, the applicable reference rate becomes unavailable or is generally replaced as a benchmark interest rate. 27 Table of Contents The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties as well as customary affirmative and negative covenants. Negative covenants include, among others, limitations on incurrence of indebtedness, liens, disposition of property and investments by us and our subsidiaries. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain interest coverage, leverage and senior leverage ratios. The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the Lenders may declare the outstanding advances and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable. We may use amounts borrowed under the Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes or working capital financing. We may borrow additional amounts under the Credit Agreement from time to time as opportunities and needs arise. Following the SVB closure by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation on March 10, 2023, and its subsequent receivership by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the FDIC announced that all of SVBs deposits and substantially all of its assets had been transferred to a newly created, full-service FDIC-operated bridge bank, Silicon Valley Bridge Bank N.A. (SVBB). On March 27, 2023, First Citizens Bank & Trust Company (First Citizens) acquired substantially all of the loans and certain other assets of the former SVB, and assumed all customer deposits and certain other liabilities of the former SVB. As such First Citizen assumed SVBs obligations under the Credit Agreement. 28 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 12,754 $ 19,314 Net cash used in investing activities (18,261) (27,805) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (7,615) 453 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (13,122) $ (8,038) Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by growth in our operations, increases or decreases in collections from our buyers and related payments to our publishers, as well as our investment in personnel to support the anticipated growth of our business. Cash flows from operating activities have been affected by changes in our working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable. The timing of cash receipts from buyers and payments to publishers can significantly impact our cash flows from operating activities. In addition, we expect seasonality to impact quarterly cash flows from operating activities. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by operating activities of $12.8 million resulted primarily from adjustments for non-cash expenses of $14.6 million, including $11.4 million for depreciation and amortization and $7.1 million for stock-based compensation, lease expense of $1.5 million, a decrease in accounts receivable of $61.3 million, offset by a net loss of $5.9 million, a decrease in other non-current liabilities of $0.7 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $55.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by operating activities of $19.3 million resulted primarily from net income of $4.8 million, adjustments for non-cash expenses of $10.7 million, including $7.2 million for depreciation and amortization and $5.1 million for stock-based compensation, and a decrease in accounts receivable of $68.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $58.6 million. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily included investments in marketable securities, purchases of equipment as we expanded the infrastructure in our third-party data centers, and capitalized internal-use software costs in support of enhancing our platform. Purchases of property and equipment may vary from period-to-period due to the timing of the expansion of our data centers, the addition of headcount, and the development cycles of our software development. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we used $18.3 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $1.4 million in purchases of property and equipment (primarily data center infrastructure), $6.0 million of investments in capitalized internal-use software, and a net increase in investments of marketable securities of $10.8 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we used $27.8 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $4.2 million of investments in capitalized internal-use software and a net increase in investments of marketable securities of $23.4 million. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities of $7.6 million was primarily due to purchases of treasury stock. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities of $0.5 million was primarily due to proceeds from exercise of stock options. 29 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Future Cash Requirements Our principal contractual obligations consist of non-cancelable leases for our various facilities. In certain cases, the terms of the lease agreements provide for rental payments that increase over time. There were no material changes to our contractual obligations disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. As of March 31, 2023, we had $4.9 million of long-term income tax liabilities, including interest, related to uncertain tax positions. Because of the high degree of uncertainty regarding the settlement of these liabilities, we are unable to estimate the years in which future cash outflows may occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities, and reported amounts of revenue and expenses. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, and adjust those estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results could materially differ from these estimates and assumptions. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 30 Table of Contents