Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows should be read in conjunction with the (1) unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and (2) audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 4, 2024. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, estimate, or continue, and similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Our fiscal year end is the first Sunday after January 30. Overview Data is foundational to our customers business transformation, and we are focused on delivering innovative and disruptive data storage, products and services that enable customers to maximize the value of their data. We are a global leader in data storage and management with a mission to redefine the storage experience by simplifying how people consume and interact with data. Our vision of an all-flash data center integrates our foundation of simplicity and reliability with four major market trends that are impacting all organizations large and small: (1) increasing demand to consume data storage as a service; (2) the shift to modernizing today's data infrastructure with all-flash; (3) the increase of modern cloud-native applications; and (4) increasing demand for data storage to support the acceleration in artificial intelligence (AI) adoption while managing rising energy costs. Our data storage platform supports a wide range of structured and unstructured data, at scale and across any data workloads in hybrid and public cloud environments, and includes mission-critical production, test and development, analytics, disaster recovery, backup and restore, AI and machine learning. Recent Developments In March 2024, through integrations with NVIDIA, we delivered new validated reference architectures for running generative AI use cases, including a new NVIDIA OVX-ready validated reference architecture, adding more options for customers in addition to the previously announced NVIDIA BasePod certification. In March 2024, we introduced new self-service capabilities across our Pure1 storage management platform and Evergreen portfolio that empower customers with more control over their data storage environment via a single management layer, simplifying end-to-end operations. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from the sale of our products and services that comprise our data storage platform. Our data storage platform includes our FlashArray and FlashBlade solutions, and our Evergreen and Portworx subscription services. Subscription services also include our professional services offerings such as installation and implementation consulting services. 25 Table of Contents Provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we typically recognize product revenue upon transfer of control to our customers and the satisfaction of our performance obligations. For Evergreen//Flex, product revenue is recognized upon the commencement of the underlying subscription services. Products are typically shipped directly by us to customers, and our channel partners generally do not stock our inventory. We expect our product revenue may vary from period to period based on, among other things, the timing and size of orders and delivery of products and the impact of significant transactions. We generally recognize revenue from the fair value of subscription services provided ratably over the contractual service period or on a consumption basis for usage above a minimum usage commitment and professional services as delivered. We expect our subscription services revenue to increase and continue to grow faster than our product revenue as more customers choose to consume our storage solutions as a service and our existing subscription customers renew and expand their consumption and service levels. Cost of Revenue Cost of product revenue primarily consists of costs paid to our third-party contract manufacturers, which includes the costs of our raw material components, and personnel costs associated with our supply chain operations. Personnel costs consist of salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense. Our cost of product revenue also includes allocated overhead costs, adjustments to inventory and purchase commitments, product warranty costs, amortization of intangible assets pertaining to developed technology and capitalized internal-use software, and freight. Allocated overhead costs consist of certain employee benefits and facilities-related costs. We expect our cost of product revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our product revenue increases. Cost of subscription services revenue primarily consists of personnel costs associated with delivering our subscription and professional services, part replacements, allocated overhead costs and depreciation of infrastructure used to deliver our subscription services. We expect our cost of subscription services revenue to increase in absolute dollars, as our subscription services revenue increases. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Salaries and personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for employee benefits, facilities, and certain information technology costs. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, prototype expenses, depreciation associated with assets acquired for research and development, data center and cloud services costs, third-party engineering and contractor support costs, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and it may decrease as a percentage of revenue. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel and entertainment expenses as well as allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications and brand-building activities. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars and it may decrease as a percentage of revenue as we continue to realize efficiencies from scaling our business. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources, facilities, IT and fees for third-party professional services as well as amortization of intangible assets pertaining to defensive technology patents and allocated overhead. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and it may decrease as a percentage of revenue. Restructuring and Impairment. Restructuring and impairment expenses consist primarily of employee severance and termination benefits, and certain lease impairment and abandonment charges. 26 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, interest expense related to our debt and gains (losses) from foreign currency transactions. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and current federal and state income taxes in the United States. Our foreign subsidiaries earn a profit margin based upon transfer pricing principles which require an arms length return. Our foreign subsidiaries' sales and marketing expenses are expected to increase over time as we grow, resulting in higher pre-tax foreign earnings and higher foreign income taxes. We have provided a full valuation allowance for U.S. deferred tax assets, which includes net operating loss carryforwards, capitalized research costs, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized based on our history of losses. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue (dollars in thousands, unaudited): Revenue First Quarter of Fiscal Change 2024 2025 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Product revenue $ 308,963 $ 347,384 $ 38,421 12 % Subscription services revenue 280,344 346,095 65,751 23 % Total revenue $ 589,307 $ 693,479 $ 104,172 18 % Total revenue increased by $104.2 million, or 18%, during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024, primarily driven by sales to new and existing enterprise customers across our entire data storage platform. The increase in product revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by strong customer demand for our FlashBlade solutions, including FlashBlade//E. The increase in subscription services revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was largely driven by increases in sales of our Evergreen subscription services, including Evergreen//One, as well as recognition of revenue from previously contracted Evergreen subscription services. During the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024, total revenue in the United States grew 14% from $427.2 million to $489.0 million while total rest of the world revenue grew 26% from $162.1 million to $204.5 million. Subscription Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) We use Subscription ARR as a key business metric to evaluate the performance of subscription services. Subscription ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue and remaining performance obligations and is not intended as a substitute for any of these items. 27 Table of Contents Subscription ARR is calculated as the total annualized contract value of all active customer subscription agreements at the end of a fiscal quarter, plus on-demand revenue for the quarter multiplied by four. Contract values are established prior to any adjustments made in accordance with ASC 606. The following table sets forth our Subscription ARR for the periods presented (dollars in thousands, unaudited): At the End of Year-over-Year Growth First Quarter of Fiscal 2024 First Quarter of Fiscal 2025 % Subscription annual recurring revenue $ 1,156,857 $ 1,445,501 25 % Remaining Performance Obligations Total remaining performance obligations (RPO) which is total contracted but not recognized revenue was $2.3 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Total RPO includes $57.0 million in remaining non-cancelable product orders. RPO consists of both deferred revenue and non-cancelable amounts that are expected to be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. Product orders are generally cancelable until delivery has occurred, and as such, unfulfilled product orders that are cancelable are excluded from RPO. Cancelable orders will fluctuate depending on numerous factors. Of the $2.3 billion RPO at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we expect to recognize approximately 48% over the next 12 months, and the remainder thereafter. RPO is expected to increase as our subscription services business grows over time. RPO includes non-cancelable Total Contract Value (TCV) sales for our storage-as-a-service offerings, including Evergreen//One, Evergreen//Flex, and Cloud Block Store consumption and subscription based offerings. TCV sales for our storage-as-a-service offerings is a key business metric we use to evaluate the performance of our consumption and subscription based offerings. TCV sales for these offerings include recurring subscription fees, any non-recurring charges such as initial setup fees, and any other billable services directly tied to the execution of the underlying service contract. 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin First Quarter of Fiscal Change 2024 2025 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Product cost of revenue $ 93,558 97,971 $ 4,413 5 % Stock-based compensation 2,655 $ 2,782 127 5 % Total product cost of revenue 96,213 100,753 $ 4,540 5 % % of Product revenue 31 % 29 % Subscription services cost of revenue $ 74,100 $ 88,149 $ 14,049 19 % Stock-based compensation 5,647 8,871 3,224 57 % Total subscription services cost of revenue $ 79,747 $ 97,020 $ 17,273 22 % % of Subscription services revenue 28 % 28 % Total cost of revenue $ 175,960 $ 197,773 $ 21,813 12 % % of Total revenue 30 % 29 % Product gross margin 69 % 71 % Subscription services gross margin 72 % 72 % Total gross margin 70 % 71 % Cost of revenue increased by $21.8 million, or 12%, during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024. The increase in product cost of revenue was primarily attributable to higher product sales, partially offset by lower excess and obsolete inventory charges. The increase in subscription services cost of revenue during these periods was primarily attributable to supporting our growing Evergreen subscription installed base, including Evergreen//One and Portworx. The increase in subscription services cost of revenue was also partially impacted by the modification of our fiscal 2024 performance restricted stock units (PRSUs) that resulted in additional stock-based compensation as discussed below. 29 Table of Contents Operating Expenses During the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we recognized $28.7 million in stock-based compensation related to a modification of our fiscal 2024 PRSUs increasing year-over-year stock-based compensation expense. Refer to Note 11 of Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. In addition, operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 were positively impacted as a result of the workforce alignment that we initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. Research and Development First Quarter of Fiscal Change 2024 2025 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Research and development $ 147,099 $ 143,526 $ (3,573) (2) % Stock-based compensation 38,232 50,294 12,062 32 % Total expenses $ 185,331 $ 193,820 $ 8,489 5 % % of Total revenue 31 % 28 % Research and development expense increased by $8.5 million, or 5%, during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024 primarily driven by the modification of our fiscal 2024 PRSUs that resulted in additional stock-based compensation. The decrease in research and development expense as a percentage of total revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was primarily due to higher revenue. Sales and Marketing First Quarter of Fiscal Change 2024 2025 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Sales and marketing $ 215,265 $ 227,453 $ 12,188 6 % Stock-based compensation 17,181 23,519 6,338 37 % Total expenses $ 232,446 $ 250,972 $ 18,526 8 % % of Total revenue 39 % 36 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $18.5 million, or 8%, during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024, primarily due to an increase of $22.8 millionin employee compensation and related costs, partially offset by a decrease of $4.1 million in sales and marketing events. The increase in employee compensation and related costs was partially impacted by the modification of our fiscal 2024 PRSUs that resulted in additional stock-based compensation. The decrease in sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was primarily due to higher revenue and lower costs for sales and marketing events. 30 Table of Contents General and Administrative First Quarter of Fiscal Change 2024 2025 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) General and administrative $ 53,269 $ 49,259 $ (4,010) (8) % Stock-based compensation 14,115 27,528 13,413 95 % Total expenses $ 67,384 $ 76,787 $ 9,403 14 % % of Total revenue 11 % 11 % General and administrative expense increased by $9.4 million, or 14%, during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024, primarily driven by the modification of our fiscal 2024 PRSUs that resulted in additional stock-based compensation, partially offset by a decrease in outside services costs. Restructuring and Impairment During the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we recognized $15.9 million of restructuring and impairment costs. We recognized $9.5 million in incremental restructuring costs primarily associated with one-time severance and other termination benefits related to a workforce alignment plan that was initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. We also recognized $6.4 million in abandonment and impairment charges related to certain leases associated with our former corporate headquarters that we ceased use in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. The incremental impairment charge was due to a revision to the underlying sublease assumptions during the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Other Income (Expense), Net First Quarter of Fiscal Change 2024 2025 $ (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Other income (expense), net $ 11,749 $ 14,091 $ 2,342 Other income (expense), net increased by $2.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024, primarily due to an increase in interest income due to increased interest rate environment, partially offset by higher net foreign exchange losses as the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to certain foreign currencies. Provision for Income Taxes First Quarter of Fiscal Change 2024 2025 $ (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Provision for income taxes $ 7,336 $ 7,326 $ (10) 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $1.7 billion. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of bank deposits and money market accounts. Our marketable securities generally consist of highly rated debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments of highly rated corporations, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, asset-backed securities, and municipal bonds. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our sales growth, the timing and extent of capital spending to support development efforts, growth of our Evergreen//One offering, the addition or closure of office space, ongoing construction of our new headquarters facility, the timing of new product introductions, payments for workforce realignment restructuring activities, our share repurchases, and expected cash payments for tax withholding obligations for equity awards held by employees. We may continue to enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may seek additional equity or debt financing in the future. Revolving Credit Facility In August 2020, we entered into a Credit Agreement with a consortium of financial institutions and lenders that provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of $300.0 million (Credit Facility). Proceeds from the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and working capital. The Credit Facility expires, absent default or early termination by us, on August 24, 2025. In March 2023, we amended the Credit Facility to transition LIBOR to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) effective April 1, 2023. The annual interest rates applicable to loans under the Credit Facility are, at our option, equal to either a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% or term SOFR (based on one, three, or six-month interest periods), subject to a floor of 0%, plus a margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.25%. Interest on revolving loans is payable quarterly in arrears with respect to loans based on the base rate and at the end of an interest period in the case of loans based on term SOFR (or at each three-month interval, if the interest period is longer than three months). We are also required to pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the commitments ranging from 0.25% to 0.40% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. In April 2023, we borrowed $100.0 million under the Credit Facility. The outstanding loan bore weighted-average interest at an annual rate of approximately 6.83% based on a one-month term SOFR resulting in interest expense of $2.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal2025. Loans under the Credit Facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets and subject to certain restrictions and two financial ratios measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter: a Consolidated Leverage Ratio not to exceed 4.5:1 and an Interest Coverage Ratio not to be less than 3:1. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Letters of Credit At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we had outstanding letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $7.7 million in connection with our facility leases. The letters of credit are collateralized by either restricted cash or the Credit Facility and mature on various dates through September 2030. 32 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Program In February 2024, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $250.0 million to repurchase shares of our common stock, increasing the total authorization amount to $395.4 million. The authorization allows us to repurchase shares of our common stock opportunistically and will be funded from available working capital. Repurchases may be made at management's discretion from time to time on the open market through privately negotiated transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions, block purchase techniques, 10b5-1 trading plans, or a combination of the foregoing. The share repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any of our common stock, has no end date, and may be suspended or discontinued by us at any time without prior notice. There were no share repurchases of our common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2025. $395.4 million remained under our share repurchase authorization as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands, unaudited): First Quarter of Fiscal 2024 2025 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 173,247 $ 221,500 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 151,201 $ (48,395) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (527,601) $ 24,974 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2024 and 2025 was primarily driven by cash collections from sales of our product and subscription services, partially offset by payments to our contract manufacturers, employee compensation, and general corporate operating expenditures. The year-over-year increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by increased sales of our product and subscription services, including improved timing of collections. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 was driven by $48.8 million in capital expenditures relating to test equipment for new product innovation, and equipment supporting our growing Evergreen//One offering, as well as the continued construction of our new headquarters facility. Net cash provided by investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was driven by net maturities of $202.6 million in marketable securities, partially offset by $51.4 million in capital expenditures relating to test equipment for new product innovation, and equipment supporting our growing Evergreen//One offering, as well as the construction of our new headquarters facility. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 was primarily driven by proceeds from the issuance of common stock from employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) of $25.3 million, and the exercise of stock options of $13.2 million, partially offset by cash outflows related to tax withholding on vesting of equity awards of $12.5 million. Net cash used in financing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by cash outflows related to the repayment of the principal amount of the Notes of approximately $575.0 million, share repurchases of $69.9 million and tax withholding on vesting of equity awards of $6.8 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds from borrowing under the Credit Facility of $100.0 million, the issuance of common stock from ESPP of $21.2 million, and the exercise of stock options of $4.6 million. 33 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments Except as set forth in Notes 6 to 8 of Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, there have been no material changes to our non-cancelable contractual obligations and commitments disclosed in our Annual Report on 10-K for fiscal 2024. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We deem an accounting policy to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption it incorporates is subject to material level of judgment related to matters that are highly uncertain and changes in those estimates and assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our condensed consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 2 of Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, see Critical Accounting Policy and Estimates in our latest Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended February 4, 2024. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since this Form 10-K was filed on April 1, 2024. Available Information Our website is located atwww.purestorage.com, and our investor relations website is located atinvestor.purestorage.com. The following filings will be available through our investor relations website free of charge after we file them with the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements for our annual meetings of stockholders. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov that has all of our public filings, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, our Proxy Statements, and other ownership related filings. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, social media accounts (Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn), and blogs as part of our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 34 Table of Contents