Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows should be read in conjunction with the (1) unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, estimate, or continue, and similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Our fiscal year end is January 31. Overview Our mission is to deliver data storage that transforms business through a dramatic increase in performance and reduction in complexity and costs. Our innovative technology replaces storage systems designed for mechanical disk with all-flash systems optimized end-to-end for solid-state memory. At the same time, our innovative business model replaces the traditional forklift upgrade cycle with an Evergreen storage model of hardware and software upgrades and maintenance. Our next-generation storage platform and business model are the result of our teams substantial experience in enterprise storage and web-scale infrastructure, as well as frustration with the industrys status quo. Our platform can deliver a 10X acceleration in business applications over legacy disk-based storage. It is also designed to be compatible with existing infrastructure, substantially more reliable and power and space efficient. Our business model builds on our technology innovations to reverse the traditional storage business model. Instead of moving data between old and new systems via forklift upgrades, we keep business data and applications in place and upgrade technology around it. Our platform and business model are designed to add value to customers for a decade or more, reducing total cost of storage ownership while increasing loyalty. We were incorporated in 2009 with a vision to define the next generation of enterprise storage by pioneering the all-flash array category and innovating a customer-centric business model. We deliver our three-part integrated platform as the Purity Operating Environment , our flash-optimized software, FlashArray , our modular and scalable all-flash array hardware, and Pure1 , our cloud-based management and support. Since inception we have consistently expanded our technology and business model: In 2012, we launched our first FlashArray and established our All Software Included model, which entitles customers to all Purity Operating Environment functionality in the base purchase price of a FlashArray . In 2013, we released Purity 3.0, which included writable snapshots and introduced our Love Your Storage Guarantee, a 30-day return guarantee program. In 2014, we expanded our product family to address a broader series of customer requirements and workloads, and released Purity 4.0, which included replication. We also launched our Forever Flash program to provide ongoing hardware upgrades as part of our maintenance and support agreements. In 2015, we launched FlashArray//m and Pure1 , our next-generation all-flash array hardware and cloud-based management and support. In March 2016, we announced our new FlashBlade product , our new elastic scale-out file and object storage system that delivers all-flash performance to terabyte-scale and multi-petabyte-scale data sets. FlashBlade is expected to be available on directed basis in the third quarter of 2016 and is targeted to be generally available later in the year. We also announced a new entry-level model of our FlashArray product and FlashStack Mini, a new converged infrastructure solution. The new entry-level FlashArray product and FlashStack Mini solution are expected to be generally available in June 2016. 17 Since launching FlashArray in May 2012, our customer base has grown to over 1,950 customers. Our custome rs include large and mid-size organizations across a diverse set of industry verticals, including cloud-based software and service providers, consumer web, education, energy, financial services, governments, healthcare, manufacturing, media, retail and tel ecommunications. We define a customer as an end user that purchases our products and services either from one of our channel partners or from us directly. No customer represented over 10% of revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2016. We have grown rapidly in recent periods, with revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2016 of $74.1 million and $139.9 million, representing year-over-year growth of 89%. We expect that the rate of growth in our revenue will continue to decline as our business scales, even if our revenue continues to grow in absolute terms. We have continued to make significant expenditures and investments, including in personnel-related costs, sales and marketing, infrastructure and operations, and have incurred net losses in each period since our inception, including net losses of $49.1 million and $63.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2016. Since our founding, we have invested heavily in growing our business. Our headcount increased from over 1,300 employees as of January 31, 2016 and to over 1,500 employees as of April 30, 2016. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development organization to extend our technology leadership, enhance the functionality of our existing storage platform and introduce new products. By investing in research and development, we believe we will be well positioned to continue our rapid growth and take advantage of our large market opportunity. Our investments in research and development may result in enhancements or products that may not achieve adequate levels of market adoption, are more expensive to develop than anticipated, may take longer to generate revenue or may generate less revenue than we anticipate. We expect that our results of operations and cash flows will be impacted by the timing, size and level of success of these product development investments. We also intend to continue to invest and expand our sales and marketing functions and channel programs, including expanding our global network of channel partners and carrying out associated marketing activities in key geographies. By investing in sales and technical training, demand generation and partner programs, we believe we can enable many of our partners to independently identify, qualify, sell and upgrade customers, with limited involvement from us. However, if we fail to effectively identify, train and manage our channel partners and to monitor their sales activity, as well as the customer support and services being provided to our customers in their local markets, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. In addition, we intend to expand and continue to invest in our international operations, which we believe will be an important factor in our continued growth. However, even though our revenue generated from customers outside of the United States was 22% and 21% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 and three months ended April 30, 2016, our international operations are relatively new and we have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Our inexperience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that our international expansion efforts may not be successful. As a result of our strategy to increase our investments in research and development, sales, marketing, support and international expansion, we expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations at least in the near future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our Business Model Currently, we sell our platform predominantly through a high touch, channel-fulfilled model. Our global sales force works collaboratively with our channel partners. Our channel partners typically place orders with us upon receiving an order from a customer and do not stock inventory. Our sales organization is supported by systems engineers with deep technical expertise and responsibility for pre-sales technical support and engineering for our customers. We support our channel partners through product education and sales and support training. We intend to continue to invest in the channel to add more partners and to expand our reach to customers through our channel partners relationships. No channel partner represented over 10% of revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2016. Our business model enables customers to broadly adopt flash for a wide variety of workloads in their datacenter, with some of our most innovative customers adopting all-flash datacenters. We do not charge separately for software, meaning that when a customer buys a FlashArray , all software functionality of the Purity Operating Environment is included in the base purchase price, and the customer is entitled to updates and new features as long as the customer maintains an active maintenance and support agreement. Product revenue is recognized at the time title and risk of loss have transferred. Support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the related maintenance and support agreement, 18 generally ranging from 1 to 3 years. By keeping our business model simple and efficient, we allow customers to bu y more products and expand their footprint more easily while allowing us to reduce our sales and marketing costs. To deliver on the next level of operational simplicity and support excellence, we designed Pure1 , our integrated cloud-based management and support. Pure1 enables our customers, support staff and partners to collaborate to achieve the best customer experience and is included with an active maintenance and support agreement. In addition, our Forever Flash program provides our customers who continually maintain active maintenance and support for three years with an included controller refresh with each additional three year maintenance and support renewal. In this way, our customers improve and extend the service life of their arrays, we reduce our cost of support by keeping the array modern and we encourage capacity expansion. In accordance with multiple-element arrangement accounting guidance, we recognize the allocated revenue of the controllers and expense the related cost in the period in which we ship these controllers. The combination of our high-performance, all-flash products, our exceptional support and our innovative business model has had a substantial impact on customer success and loyalty and are strong drivers of both initial purchase and additional purchases of our products. For all customers that have been with us for at least 12 months as of April 30, 2016, for every $1 of initial product purchase, our top 25 customers on average spent approximately $12 on new product purchases in the first 18 months following their initial purchase. Factors Affecting Our Performance Adoption of All-Flash Storage Systems Organizations are increasingly replacing traditional disk-based systems with all-flash storage systems to achieve the performance they need. Our success depends on the adoption of all-flash storage systems in IT infrastructures. Although flash is expected to penetrate the datacenter at a rapid rate, a lack of demand for all-flash storage systems for any reason, including technological challenges associated with the use of all-flash memory, the cost or availability of all-flash memory or the adoption of competing technologies and products, would adversely affect our growth prospects. To the extent more organizations recognize the benefits of all-flash memory in datacenter storage systems and as the adoption of all-flash memory storage technology increases, our target customer base will expand. Our business and results of operations will be significantly affected by the speed with which organizations implement all-flash storage systems. Adding New Customers and Expanding Sales to Our Existing Customer Base We believe that the all-flash storage market is still in the early stages of adoption. We intend to target new customers by continuing to invest in our field sales force and extending our relationships with channel partners. We also intend to continue to target large customers including enterprises, service providers and government organizations who have yet to adopt all-flash storage throughout their IT environment. A typical initial order involves educating prospective customers about the technical merits and capabilities and potential cost savings of our products as compared to our competitors products. We believe that customer references have been, and will continue to be, an important factor in winning new business. The average size of arrays deployed by our customers has increased over time. We expect this trend to continue and that a substantial portion of our future sales will be sales to existing customers, including expansion of their arrays. We sell additional products and services to our customers as the data within their existing application deployments naturally grows and they migrate additional applications to our all-flash storage platform. Our business and results of operations will depend on our ability to continue to add new customers and sell additional products to our growing base of customers. Leveraging Channel Partners We sell our products predominantly through a channel-fulfilled model. Our sales force supports our channel partners and is responsible for large account penetration, global account coordination and overall market development. Our channel partners help market and sell our products, typically with assistance from our sales force. This joint sales approach provides us with the benefit of direct relationships with substantially all of our customers and expands our reach through the relationships of our channel partners. We intend to continue to expand our partner relationships to further extend our distribution coverage and to invest in education, training and programs to increase the ability of our channel partners to sell our products independently. Our business and results of operations will be materially affected by our success in leveraging our channel partners. 19 Investing in Research and Development for Growth Our future performance will also depend on our ability to continue to innovate, improve functionality in our products and adapt to new technologies or changes to existing technologies. We intend to continue to invest for long-term growth. Accordingly, we expect to continue to invest heavily in our product development efforts, including software development in the Purity Operating Environment and Pure1 to further expand the capabilities and performance of our storage platform, hardware development in our FlashArray and future hardware platforms, and to introduce new products including new releases and upgrades to our software and hardware. We expect that our results of operations will be impacted by the timing, size and level of success of these product development investments. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue from the sale of our storage products and support services. Provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we typically recognize product revenue upon shipment, as title and risk of loss are transferred to our channel partners at that time. Products are typically shipped directly by us to customers, and our channel partners do not stock our inventory. We expect our product revenue may vary from period to period based on, among other things, the timing and size of orders and delivery of products and the impact of significant transactions. We provide our support services pursuant to maintenance and support agreements, which involve customer support, hardware maintenance and software upgrades for a period of generally 1 to 3 years. We recognize revenue from maintenance and support agreements over the contractual service period. We expect our support revenue to increase as we add new customers and our existing customers renew maintenance and support agreements. Cost of Revenue Cost of product revenue primarily consists of costs paid to our third-party contract manufacturers, which includes the costs of our components, and personnel costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Personnel costs consist of salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense. Our cost of product revenue also includes freight, allocated overhead costs and inventory write-offs. Allocated overhead costs consist of certain facilities and IT costs. We expect our cost of product revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our product revenue increases. Cost of support revenue includes personnel costs associated with our customer support organization and allocated overhead costs. Cost of support revenue also includes parts replacement costs. We expect our cost of support revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our support revenue increases. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Salaries and personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities and IT costs. Research and Development . Research and development expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, prototype expenses, depreciation associated with assets acquired for research and development, third-party engineering and contractor support costs, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in new products and existing products and build upon our technology leadership. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel and entertainment expenses, as well as allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications and brand-building activities. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars over time as we expand our sales force and increase our marketing resources, expand into new markets and further develop our channel program. General and Administrative . General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources and fees for third-party professional services, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. 20 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and state income taxes in the United States. We have recorded no U.S. federal income tax and provided a full valuation allowance for U.S. deferred tax assets, which includes net operating loss (NOL), carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized based on our history of losses. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of our revenue (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2016 (unaudited) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue: Product $ 63,618 $ 111,738 Support 10,459 28,209 Total revenue 74,077 139,947 Cost of revenue: Product (1) 22,712 34,042 Support (1) 6,924 12,893 Total cost of revenue 29,636 46,935 Gross profit 44,441 93,012 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 31,682 52,500 Sales and marketing (1) 48,327 82,816 General and administrative (1) 12,692 21,482 Total operating expenses 92,701 156,798 Loss from operations (48,260 ) (63,786 ) Other income (expense), net (703 ) 1,282 Loss before provision for income taxes (48,963 ) (62,504 ) Provision for income taxes 157 955 Net loss $ (49,120 ) $ (63,459 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2016 (unaudited) Cost of revenueproduct $ 56 $ 102 Cost of revenuesupport 333 1,051 Research and development 3,625 11,220 Sales and marketing 3,444 7,237 General and administrative 1,401 2,524 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 8,859 $ 22,134 21 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2016 (unaudited) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue: Product 86 % 80 % Support 14 20 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Product 31 25 Support 9 9 Total cost of revenue 40 34 Gross profit 60 66 Operating expenses: Research and development 43 38 Sales and marketing 65 59 General and administrative 17 15 Total operating expenses 125 112 Loss from operations (65 ) (46 ) Other income (expense), net (1 ) 1 Loss before provision for income taxes (66 ) (45 ) Provision for income taxes (0 ) 1 Net loss (66 )% (46 )% Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Product revenue $ 63,618 $ 111,738 $ 48,120 76 % Support revenue 10,459 28,209 17,750 170 % Total revenue $ 74,077 $ 139,947 $ 65,870 89 % Total revenue increased by $65.9 million, or 89%, during the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015. The increase in product revenue was primarily driven by sales of our FlashArray//m that was launched in June 2015 to a growing number of new and existing customers. The number of customers grew from approximately 900 as of April 30, 2015 to over 1,950 as of April 30, 2016. The increase in support revenue was driven primarily by an increase in maintenance and support agreements sold with increased product sales, as well as increased recognition of deferred support revenue. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Product cost of revenue $ 22,712 $ 34,042 $ 11,330 50 % Support cost of revenue 6,924 12,893 5,969 86 % Total cost of revenue $ 29,636 $ 46,935 $ 17,299 58 % Product gross margin 64 % 69 % Support gross margin 34 % 54 % Total gross margin 60 % 66 % Cost of revenue increased by $17.3 million, or 58%, during the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015. The increase in product cost of revenue was primarily driven by increased product sales and, to a lesser extent, by the increased costs in our manufacturing operations, including increased personnel costs associated with increased headcount. The increase in support cost of revenue was primarily attributable to costs in our 22 customer support organization primarily driven by personnel costs associated with increased headcount and an increase in parts replacement in support of our maintenance and support agreements. Total headcount in these functions increased 36% from Apri l 30, 2015 to April 30, 2016. Total gross margin increased from 60% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 to 66% during the three months ended April 30, 2016. Product gross margin increased 5 points from the three months ended April 30, 2015 to the three months ended April 30, 2016, primarily driven by a shift in the mix of products sold as we transitioned to FlashArray//m , as well as continued cost reduction on certain key components. Support gross margin increased 20 points from the three months ended April 30, 2015 to the three months ended April 30, 2016, primarily due to increased recognition of deferred support revenue resulting from the increase in our customer base, as well as operational efficiencies. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Research and development $ 31,682 $ 52,500 $ 20,818 66 % Research and development expense increased by $20.8 million, or 66%, during the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015, as we continued to develop new and enhanced product offerings. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $16.2 million in salary and related costs, including an increase of $7.6 million in stock-based compensation expense, as headcount increased by 43% from April 30, 2015 to April 30, 2016. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to $3.6 million in depreciation expense on test equipment. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Sales and marketing $ 48,327 $ 82,816 $ 34,489 71 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $34.5 million, or 71%, during the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015, as we grew our sales force and expanded our geographic footprint. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $21.0 million in salary and related costs, including an increase of $7.3 million in sales commission expense and an increase of $3.8 million in stock-based compensation expense, as headcount increased by 50% from April 30, 2015 to April 30, 2016. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to $9.8 million costs related to marketing and brand awareness programs as well as $3.1 million in sales conference, travel and other costs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) General and administrative $ 12,692 $ 21,482 $ 8,790 69 % General and administrative expense increased by $8.8 million, or 69%, during the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $3.2 million in salary and related costs, including an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million, as we increased our headcount by 44% from April 30, 2015 to April 30, 2016. Additionally, legal, consulting, accounting and audit fees increased by $2.5 million as we expanded internationally and prepared to become and now operate as a public company and $1.9 million in office-related costs. 23 Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Other income (expense), net $ (703 ) $ 1,282 $ 1,985 282 % Changes in other income (expense), net were primarily due to realized gains from foreign currency transactions and interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2015 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands, unaudited) Provision for income taxes $ 157 $ 955 $ 798 508 % The provision for income taxes was primarily related to taxes on international operations as we continued our global expansion and state income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2016, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $607.0 million. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of bank deposits and money market accounts. Our marketable securities consist of highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments of highly rated corporations and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. We have generated significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $618.8 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations at least in the near future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. In August 2014, we entered into a two-year revolving line of credit facility to provide up to $15.0 million based on 80% of qualifying accounts receivable. Borrowings under the line of credit bear interest at the lenders prime rate plus 1%. The revolving line of credit facility was collateralized by substantially all of our assets, excluding any intellectual property. It also contains various covenants, including covenants related to the delivery of financial and other information, as well as limitations on dispositions, mergers, consolidations and other corporate activities. As of January 31, 2016, we had no borrowings from this line of credit and we were in compliance with all financial covenants. In April 2016, we terminated this line of credit. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the timing of new product introductions and the continuing market acceptance of our products and services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. As of January 31, 2016 and April 30, 2016, we had letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $7.1 million and $6.4 million, in connection with our facility leases. The letters of credit are collateralized by restricted cash in the same amount and mature at various dates through March 2023. 24 The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands, unaudited): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2016 (unaudited) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (14,117 ) $ 6,760 Net cash used in investing activities $ (6,742 ) $ (343,809 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,378 $ 18,403 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2016 was $6.8 million, which resulted from a net loss of $63.5 million, partially offset by non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense of $22.1 million, $10.4 million for depreciation and amortization and net cash inflows of $37.2 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $20.7 million increase in deferred revenue, a $28.6 million decrease in accounts receivable and a decrease in deferred commissions of $4.1 million, partially offset by a $11.0 million decrease in accrued compensation and other liabilities, $2.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets and $2.6 million increase in inventory. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to new sales order growth during the quarter ended April 30, 2016. The decreases in accounts receivable, accrued compensation and other liabilities were primarily attributable to the timing of collections and payments. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2015 was $14.1 million, which resulted from a net loss of $49.1 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $8.9 million for stock-based compensation expense and $6.5 million for depreciation and amortization and net cash inflows of $19.7 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of $22.2 million increase in deferred revenue, $4.1 million decrease in accounts receivable and $1.8 million decrease in deferred commissions. The inflows were partially offset by $1.5 million increase in inventory, $3.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and $3.9 million decrease in accrued compensation and other liabilities and accounts payable. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to new sales order growth during the quarter. The increase in inventory was a result of increased purchases to meet higher demand for our products. The decreases in accounts receivable, accrued compensation and other liabilities and accounts payable were primarily attributable to the timing of collections and payments. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2016 of $343.8 million resulted primarily from net purchases of marketable securities of $320.1 million capital expenditures of $24.4 million and a change in restricted cash related to security deposits for office space of $0.7 million. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2015 of $6.7 million resulted from capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $18.4 million during the three months ended April 30, 2016 was primarily due to $15.1 million from proceeds from issuance of common stock under ESPP and $3.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities of $1.4 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 was primarily due to $1.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, which was partially offset by payments of deferred offering costs of $0.3 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on 25 an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these esti mates. Please see Note 2 of Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, please see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our latest 10-K. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since our 10-K filed on March 25, 2016. Available Information Our website is located at www.purestorage.com , and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.purestorage.com . The following filings will be available through our investor relations website after we file them with the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements for our annual meetings of stockholders, and are also available for download free of charge. We will also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of our public filings, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, our Proxy Statements, and other ownership related filings. Further, a copy of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is located at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website . Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.