Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify these statements by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "can," "continue," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans," "seeks," "should," "will," "strategy," "future," "likely," or "would" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or development and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are in some cases beyond our control, including the recent COVID-19 outbreak and the associated efforts to limit the spread of the disease. All of our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks described under "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings, including the audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2020. Overview We are a leading provider of secure, cloud-based digital solutions that transform the ways in which traditional and emerging financial services providers engage with account holders and end users, or End Users. We sell our solutions to financial institutions, alternative finance and leasing companies, or Alt-FIs, and financial technology companies, or FinTechs. Our solutions enable our customers to deliver robust suites of digital banking, lending, leasing, and banking as a service, or BaaS, services that make it possible for End Users to transact and engage anytime, anywhere and on any device. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of engagement between our customers and their End Users. As such, we purpose-build our solutions to deliver compelling and consistent End User experiences across digital channels and to drive the success of our customers by optimizing their digital brands and enhancing End User acquisition, retention and engagement. The effective delivery and management of secure and advanced digital solutions in the complex and heavily-regulated financial services industry requires significant resources, personnel and expertise. We provide digital solutions that are designed to be highly configurable, scalable and adaptable to the specific needs of our customers. We design and develop our solutions with an open platform approach intended to provide comprehensive integration among our solution offerings and our customers' internal and third-party systems. This integrated approach allows our customers to deliver unified and robust financial experiences across digital channels. Our solutions provide our customers the flexibility to configure their digital services in a manner that is consistent with each customer's specific workflows, processes and controls. Our solutions also allow our customers to personalize the digital experiences they deliver to their End Users by extending their individual services and brand requirements across digital channels. Our solutions and our data center infrastructure and resources are also designed to comply with the stringent security and technical regulations applicable to financial institutions and financial services providers and to safeguard our customers and their End Users. We began by providing digital banking solutions to domestic regional and community financial institutions, or RCFIs, with the mission of empowering them to leverage technology to compete more effectively and to strengthen the communities and End Users they serve. To date, a substantial majority of our revenues continue to come from sales of our digital banking platform to RCFIs, and we continue to be focused on our founding mission of building stronger communities by strengthening their financial institutions. However, the continued proliferation and ubiquity of mobile and tablet devices and End Users' 34 Table of Contents increasing expectations for digital services have driven increases in the number of providers, greater fragmentation of financial services markets and a broadening set of new and innovative digital services, creating challenges and opportunities in the markets served by financial institutions as well as emerging providers such as Alt-FIs and FinTechs. End Users increasingly expect to transact and engage with financial services providers anytime, anywhere and on any device, and seamlessly across devices. End Users also select digital solutions based on the quality and intuitiveness of the digital user experience. Financial institutions, Alt-FIs and FinTechs are seeking to address these challenges and opportunities and capture End User engagement by providing new, innovative digital financial services, solutions and experiences. Traditional financial services providers such as banks and credit unions are experiencing reduced End User engagement in their physical branches and increased End User engagement with their digital services and thus, they are increasing their investment in digital services. Emerging providers such as Alt-FIs and FinTechs are leveraging their digital focus and expertise and capitalizing on increased End User demand for digital financial services by creating new and expanding existing digital service offerings. This combined investment by traditional and emerging financial services providers is driving further competition, segmentation and innovation. We deliver our solutions to the substantial majority of our customers using a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model under which our customers pay subscription fees for the use of our solutions. A small portion of our revenues are derived from customers which host our solutions in their own data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. Our digital banking platform customers have numerous End Users, and those End Users can represent one or more consumer or commercial users registered on our digital banking platform, or Registered Users, on our solutions. We generally price our digital banking platform solutions based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers and the number of Registered Users utilizing our solutions. We generally earn additional revenues from our digital banking platform customers based on the number of transactions that Registered Users perform on our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. As a result, our revenues from digital banking platform customers grow as our customers buy more solutions from us and increase the number of Registered Users utilizing our solutions and as those users increase their number of transactions on our solutions. The structure and terms of the arrangements for our newer lending and leasing and BaaS solutions are varied, but we generally sell these solutions on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. We have achieved significant growth since our inception. During each of the past eight years, our average number of Registered Users per installed customer on our digital banking platform, or Installed Customer, has grown, and we have been able to sell additional solutions to existing customers. Our revenues per Installed Customer and per Registered User vary period-to-period based on the length and timing of customer implementations, changes in the average number of Registered Users per customer, sales of additional solutions to existing customers, changes in the number of transactions on our solutions by Registered Users and variations among existing customers and new customers with respect to the mix of purchased solutions and related pricing. Please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operation Measures" for additional detail on how we define "Installed Customers" and "Registered Users." The COVID-19 pandemic creates significant risks and uncertainties for our customers, their End Users, our partners and suppliers, our employees and our business generally. However, we believe that these events could accelerate the transition to digital financial solutions and that our portfolio of digital financial services solutions and our position and reputation in the market provide us with an opportunity to continue to serve clients and grow our business. We are being cautious as a result of the uncertainties and risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and in response to these uncertainties for the short term we have reduced our hiring plans for 2020 and are limiting hiring and other investments mainly to essential support, delivery and infrastructure roles. In the long term, and subject to more certainty regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, we remain committed to continuing to strategically invest across our organization to position us to increase revenues and to improve operating efficiencies. We are also considering how our physical facilities requirements might change when we eventually return to increased onsite operations, including the costs associated with ensuring a safe work environment and the likely increased prevalence of working from home for many employees. The timing and amount of these investments will vary based on the rate at which we expect to add new customers or sell additional solutions to existing customers, our customer retention rates, the implementation and support needs of our customers, our software development plans, our technology and physical infrastructure requirements, and changes thereto resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and other needs of our organization (including needs resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic). Many of these investments will occur in advance of our realizing any resultant benefit which may make it difficult to determine if we are effectively allocating our resources. If we are successful in growing our revenues by increasing the number and scope of our customer relationships, we anticipate that greater economies of scale and increased operating leverage will improve our margins over the long term. We also anticipate that increases in the number of Registered Users for existing digital banking platform customers in the longer term will improve our margins. However, we do not have any control or influence over whether End Users of our digital banking platform elect to become Registered Users of our customers' digital banking services. 35 Table of Contents We sell our solutions primarily through our professional sales organization. While the financial institutions market is well-defined due to the regulatory classifications of those financial institutions, the Alt-FI and FinTech markets are broader and more difficult to define due to the changing number of providers in each market. Subject to the risks and uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in additional sales representatives to identify and address the financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech markets across the U.S. and internationally and to increase our number of sales support and marketing personnel, as well as our investment in marketing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our solutions and generate new customer opportunities. We have continuously invested in expanding and improving our digital banking platform since its introduction in 2005, and we currently intend to continue investing both organically and inorganically through acquisitions to expand our portfolio. Over the past five years we have acquired or developed new solutions and additional functions that serve a broader range of needs of financial institutions as well as the needs of Alt-FIs and FinTechs. In addition to our acquisitions of Cloud Lending Inc., or Cloud Lending, and Gro Solutions, Inc., or Gro, in 2018 and our acquisitions of Centrix and Social Money in 2015, on October 31, 2019 we completed our acquisition of Lender Performance Group, LLC, or PrecisionLender. PrecisionLender is a provider of data-driven sales enablement, pricing and portfolio management solutions for financial institutions globally. Our solutions now include a broad range of services and experiences including commercial banking, regulatory and compliance, digital lending and leasing, BaaS, digital account opening and data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management solutions both in the U.S. and internationally. We believe that financial services providers are best served by a broad, integrated portfolio of digital solutions that provide rapid, flexible and comprehensive integration with internal and third-party systems allowing them to provide modern, intuitive digital financial services in a secure, regulatory-compliant manner. We also believe that the breadth and depth of our solution offerings across the financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech markets, our open and flexible platform approach, our position as a leading provider of digital banking solutions to a large network of RCFIs, and our expertise in delivering new, innovative, secure and regulatory-compliant digital solutions uniquely position us in the market for digital financial services solutions. We currently intend to increase investments in technology innovation and software development as we enhance our solutions and platforms and increase or expand the number of solutions that we offer. We believe that delivery of consistent, high-quality customer support is a significant driver of purchasing and renewal decisions of our prospects and customers. To develop and maintain a reputation for high-quality service, we seek to build deep relationships with our customers through our customer service organization, which we staff with personnel who are motivated by our common mission of using technology to help our customers succeed and who are knowledgeable with respect to the regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry. As our business grows, we currently intend to continue to invest in and grow our services and delivery organization to support our customers' needs and maintain our reputation. Recent Events Global health concerns with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have caused significant disruption to the macroeconomic environment, and the pandemic has significantly increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments unknown and unpredictable at this time, including the duration, severity and spread of the pandemic, related restrictions on travel and transportation and other actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact to our customers, their End Users, our suppliers and partners, and other items identified under "Risk Factors" below. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the impacts that the spread of COVID-19 may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impacts of the pandemic are highly uncertain and subject to change. We have for many years maintained a business continuity plan and a pandemic plan, which we regularly test and update as needed. Based on the information available to us to date, we believe we have taken an informed, proactive and effective approach to addressing the direct known effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on us, our customers and other third parties on which we rely. In late February, we implemented enhanced sanitation efforts at our locations, including more strict cleaning protocols for common surfaces and additional hand sanitization stations across our locations. In early March, we indefinitely suspended all non-essential, work-related domestic and international travel, instituted two-week self-quarantines for any employees who had recently traveled prior to the suspension, and implemented protocols for employees to report personal health situations which resemble COVID-19. By early March, over 90% of our employees had transitioned to working remotely from home and by mid-March virtually every one of our employees had transitioned to working remotely from home. We have now implemented strict protocols for any employee to enter any of our facilities, including the approval of senior management, advance health screening for COVID-19 symptoms and strict social distancing requirements while onsite. As of the filing date of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, we continue to operate with essentially every employee working remotely, except for minimal essential 36 Table of Contents functions requiring facility access from time to time, only if required, in compliance with such protocols, and we currently plan to remain operating virtually at least through the remainder of 2020. We also modified our annual client conference to be a virtual event, which we hosted in multiple segments from April to June 2020. We have similarly cancelled all in-person aspects of our contemplated spring 2021 client conference and are currently evaluating to what extent we may hold the conference either virtually or later in the year. In addition, we have performed additional due diligence with critical vendors and other third parties on which we rely to assess their responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and impacts on their operations and services. To date, we have not experienced any material adverse impacts from any of our vendors or other third parties on which we rely. We intend to continue to conduct enhanced due diligence on such vendors and third parties for the foreseeable future as the uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic continues to persist. We believe that to date our business continuity and pandemic plans are operating effectively and that we have been able to operate and provide services to our customers under the circumstances. As of the date of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, we do not yet have firm plans on when or how we will transition back to onsite operations across our facilities, but we continue to monitor the situation closely and to plan accordingly. To date, we believe our corporate culture, business model, customer relations, and technology and information technology infrastructure have allowed our employees to substantially perform their roles while working remotely. However, in response to the uncertainties presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have reduced our hiring plans for 2020 and are limiting hiring and other investments mainly to essential support, delivery and infrastructure roles. We are also considering how our physical facilities requirements might change when we eventually return to increased onsite operations, including the costs associated with ensuring a safe work environment and the likely increased prevalence of working from home for many employees. We also have conducted an extensive outreach to our customers and many prospective customers to assess their needs in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic and to seek to identify ways that we may assist them with our solutions and services. We believe the impacts of COVID-19 on our existing and prospective customers present both challenges and opportunities. While we believe the pandemic will increase the importance and prominence of digital financial solutions, the increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending, is resulting in delays in certain purchasing decisions and implementations. For example, we are able to deliver our solutions remotely. However, the COVID-19 pandemic and its related restrictions have caused challenges for financial institutions to execute in-branch operations which makes executing more complex projects, such as implementations of new technology solutions, more difficult. Further, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience delays in some implementations and the associated revenue recognition as our customers focus on other initiatives in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and manage their own operations in light of the pandemic. We also have experienced and expect to continue to experience certain customers requesting reduced or extended payment terms to assist them with cost reduction measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which we intend to make conditional on associated contract extensions to offset the impact of the reduced payments. Accordingly, we expect the impacts of COVID-19 to have a negative impact on our bookings, revenues, gross margins and cash flows from operations for so long as such conditions persist. Although at this time we are unable to predict the extent or duration of such impacts, our bookings, in particular with respect to new customer agreements, have been and we anticipate will continue to be adversely impacted. We believe this delay in bookings has been and will continue to be most significant (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management lending solutions particularly with respect to enterprise customers, because the target customers for these solutions have focused their internal resources on responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, including by providing loans through government stimulus programs such as the federal "Paycheck Protection Program." Further, with recent increases in COVID-19 cases in Europe and corresponding additional shelter-in-place and similar restrictions, we expect to see a continued negative impact in the near term on bookings from the sale of our digital lending and leasing solutions to European-based customers. We have experienced a less significant overall bookings impact (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our digital banking solutions. We have, however, experienced a significant slowing of net new customer deals, partially offset by an increase in cross sales of additional features and functionality to our existing customer base due to the increased utilization and demand for digital banking solutions caused by the decreased in-branch operations resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. During the quarter ended June 30, 2020, the negative impact to bookings and revenue from the sale of our Cloud Lending digital lending and leasing solutions was significantly offset by our sales and implementation of new offerings of these solutions designed to facilitate loans under the "Paycheck Protection Program" and similar government stimulus programs in the U.S. and abroad. We did not experience similar benefits to revenues or bookings from stimulus programs in the quarter ended September 30, 2020 and do not currently expect any similar future revenues or bookings impacts related to stimulus programs or benefits. Given the uncertainty that still surrounds the COVID-19 pandemic and the November 2020 election, we are expecting sales performance across all our solutions to continue to be slower than normal during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 and for the foreseeable future. However, based on feedback we have received from our existing and prospective customers and observations from our sales team after operating for over seven months during the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe we will begin to see improvements in the predictability of purchasing decisions and implementations by customers, and a corresponding gradual increase in bookings, 37 Table of Contents beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2020 and continuing through the first half of 2021, although at this time we are unable to predict the extent of such improvement. However, the duration and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to be highly unpredictable and may continue to disrupt any seasonality trends that may otherwise typically be inherent in our historical operating results. Despite these challenges among financial institutions, the usage by End Users of digital financial solutions has never been higher, and we are making additional investments to enhance our technology infrastructure to support this heightened usage. We have seen increased online banking activity as a result of shelter-in-place and similar orders as well as spikes in usage as End Users check accounts for such things as government stimulus funds. We believe the challenges and opportunities posed by the COVID-19 pandemic have and will continue to cause financial institutions to increase their focus on maintaining and improving their digital financial services offerings. For example, government stimulus programs enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as the federal "Paycheck Protection Program," provide financial institutions with additional revenue opportunities. To assist our customers with these loans, our Q2 Cloud Lending team designed and delivered a Paycheck Protection Program solution designed to help our financial institution customers perform the entire Paycheck Protection Program loan application and disbursement process digitally. Key Operating Measures In addition to the United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, measures described below in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsComponents of Operating Results," we monitor the following operating measures to evaluate growth trends, plan investments and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts: Installed Customers We define Installed Customers as the number of customers on our digital banking platform from which we are currently recognizing revenues. The average size of our Installed Customers, measured in both Registered Users per Installed Customer and revenues per Installed Customer, has increased over time as our existing Installed Customers continue to add Registered Users and buy more solutions from us, and as we add larger RCFIs to our Installed Customer base. The net rate at which we add Installed Customers varies based on our implementation capacity, the size and unique needs of our customers, the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions, and customer attrition, including as a result of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions. While we believe the COVID-19 pandemic will increase the importance and prominence of digital financial solutions and that our portfolio of digital financial services solutions and our position and reputation in the market provide us with an opportunity to continue to serve clients and grow our business, the increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity resulting from the pandemic, including consumer and business spending, is resulting in delays in certain purchasing decisions and implementations, which we anticipate will slow the rate at which we add new Installed Customers over the next several months. We had 414, 401 and 382 Installed Customers on our digital banking platform as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Registered Users We define a Registered User as an individual related to an account holder of an Installed Customer on our digital banking platform who has registered to use one or more of our solutions and has current access to use those solutions as of the last day of the reporting period presented. We price our digital banking platform solutions based on the number of Registered Users, so as the number of Registered Users of our solutions increases, our revenues grow. Our average number of Registered Users per Installed Customer grows as our existing digital banking platform customers add more Registered Users and as we add larger RCFIs to our Installed Customer base. We anticipate that the number of Registered Users will grow at a faster rate than our number of Installed Customers. The rate at which our customers add Registered Users and the incremental revenues we recognize from new Registered Users vary significantly period-to-period based on the timing of our implementations of new customers and the timing of registration of new End Users. We add new Registered Users through both organic growth from existing customers and from the addition of End Users from new Installed Customers. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic will increase the importance and prominence of digital financial solutions, which may result in increased registration of new End Users with existing customers; however, the increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending, also is resulting in delays in certain purchasing decisions and implementations, that may slow the rate at which we add new Installed Customers and with them, new Registered Users from such customers. Accordingly, at this time we are unable to predict the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the growth in our number of Registered Users. Our Installed Customers had approximately 14.6 million, 12.8 million and 10.4 million Registered Users as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Registered Users at September 30, 2020 were 17.1 million compared to 14.1 million at September 30, 2019. 38 Table of Contents Revenue Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our customers and expand their use of our products and services over time is an indicator of the stability of our revenue base and the long-term value of our customer relationships. We assess our performance in this area using a metric we refer to as our revenue retention rate. We calculate our revenue retention rate as the total revenues in a calendar year, excluding any revenues from solutions of businesses acquired during such year, from customers who were implemented on any of our solutions as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of the total revenues during the prior year from the same group of customers. Our revenue retention rate provides insight into the impact on current year revenues of: the number of new customers implemented on any of our solutions during the prior year; the timing of our implementation of those new customers in the prior year; growth in the number of End Users on such solutions and changes in their usage of such solutions; sales of new products and services to our existing customers during the current year, excluding any products or services resulting from businesses acquired during such year; and customer attrition. The most significant drivers of changes in our revenue retention rate each year have historically been the number of new customers in the prior year and the timing of our implementation of those new customers. The timing of our implementation of new customers in the prior year is significant because we do not start recognizing revenues from new customers until they are implemented. If implementations are weighted more heavily in the first or second half of the prior year, our revenue retention rate will be lower or higher, respectively. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic will create incentives for our existing customers to purchase additional features to support the increase in demand for digital banking; however, the increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending, also is resulting in delays in certain purchasing decisions and implementations and customer decisions with respect to contract extensions, which may adversely affect our revenue retention rate. We also have and could continue to experience contract terminations with customers who become insolvent as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Accordingly, at this time we are unable to predict the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our revenue retention rate. Our use of revenue retention rate has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate revenue retention rate differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Our revenue retention rate was 120%, 114% and 122% for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Churn We utilize churn to monitor the satisfaction of our customers and evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies. We define churn as the amount of any monthly recurring revenue losses due to customer cancellations and downgrades, net of upgrades and additions of new solutions, during a year, divided by our monthly recurring revenue at the beginning of the year. Cancellations refer to customers that have either stopped using our services completely or remained a customer but terminated a particular service. Downgrades are a result of customers taking less of a particular service or renewing their contract for identical services at a lower price. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic will create incentives for our existing customers to purchase additional features to support the increase in demand for digital banking; however, the increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending, is resulting in delays in certain purchasing decisions and implementations and customer decisions with respect to contract extensions and also may result in certain downgrades and cancellations from existing customers, each of which may adversely affect our churn. For example, we have experienced certain customers requesting reduced or extended payment terms to assist them with cost reduction measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which we intend to make conditional on associated contract extensions to offset the impact of the reduced payments. We also have and could continue to experience contract terminations with customers who become insolvent as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Accordingly, at this time we are unable to predict the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our churn. Our annual churn has ranged from 5.1% to 3.5% over the last eight years, and we had annual churn of 5.1%, 5.0% and 4.9% for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our use of churn has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate churn differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures to clarify and enhance our understanding, and aid in the period-to-period comparison, of our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide supplemental information that is meaningful when assessing our operating performance because they exclude the impact of certain amounts that our management and board of directors do not consider part of core operating results when assessing our operational performance, allocating resources, preparing annual budgets and determining compensation. Accordingly, these non-GAAP financial measures may provide insight to investors into the motivation and decision-making of management in operating the business. Set forth in the tables below are the corresponding GAAP financial measures for each non-GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure included below. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should 39 Table of Contents not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, their most comparable GAAP measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in their financing and accounting methods, the book value of their assets, their capital structures, the method by which their assets were acquired and the manner in which they define non-GAAP measures. Items such as the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, acquisition related adjustments, deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, restructuring charges and partnership termination charges can have a material impact on our GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP Revenue We define non-GAAP revenue as total revenue excluding the impact of PrecisionLender purchase accounting. We monitor these measures to assess our performance because we believe our revenue growth rates would be understated without these adjustments. We believe presenting non-GAAP revenue aids in the comparability between periods and in assessing our overall operating performance. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenue: GAAP revenue $ 103,804 $ 79,702 $ 293,765 $ 228,644 Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 957 3,720 Total Non-GAAP revenue $ 104,761 $ 79,702 $ 297,485 $ 228,644 Non-GAAP Operating Income We provide non-GAAP operating income using non-GAAP revenue as discussed above and excluding such items as amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, acquisition related costs and restructuring charges. We believe these measures are useful for the following reasons: Amortization of acquired intangible assets . We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. We believe that eliminating this expense from our non-GAAP measures is useful to investors, because the amortization of acquired intangible assets can be inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisition transactions, which also vary in frequency from period to period. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. Stock-based compensation . We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to stock-based compensation. We believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense provides for a better comparison of our operating results to prior periods and to our peer companies as the calculations of stock-based compensation vary from period to period and company to company due to different valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation, we exclude these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. Acquisition related costs . We exclude certain expense items resulting from our acquisitions, such as legal, accounting and consulting fees, changes in fair value of contingent consideration, and retention expense. We consider these adjustments, to some extent, to be unpredictable and dependent on a significant number of factors that are outside of our control. Furthermore, acquisitions result in operating expenses that would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our organic business operations. We believe that providing these non-GAAP measures that exclude acquisition related costs, allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to our historical results and results of less acquisitive peer companies, both with and without such adjustments. Unoccupied lease charges. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes restructuring charges related to the estimated costs of exiting and terminating facility lease commitments, as they relate to our corporate restructuring and exit activities. These charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in the future, we believe that eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Partnership termination charges. In the quarter ending June 30, 2020, in connection with the termination of a strategic partnership, we agreed to pay a termination fee of $5.6 million in May 2020 and $7.6 million in the third quarter of 40 Table of Contents 2021. We are excluding the charges associated with this partnership termination as they are non-recurring in nature and would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our organic business operations. We believe that providing these non-GAAP measures that exclude partnership termination charges allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to our historical results and results of peer companies, both with and without such adjustments. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 GAAP operating loss $ (19,847) $ (13,394) $ (79,357) $ (44,888) Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 957 3,720 Partnership termination charges 13,244 Stock-based compensation 11,596 10,070 36,915 28,535 Acquisition related costs 1,062 2,784 714 7,550 Amortization of acquired technology 5,255 1,941 16,184 5,514 Amortization of acquired intangibles 4,465 912 13,447 3,032 Unoccupied lease charges 1,468 244 2,136 244 Non-GAAP operating income (loss) $ 4,956 $ 2,557 $ 7,003 $ (13) Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss before depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, certain costs related to our recent acquisitions, (benefit from) provision for income taxes, interest and other (income) expense, net, deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, partnership termination charges, and unoccupied lease charges. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results for the following reasons: adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a company's operating performance without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing, capital structures and the method by which assets were acquired; our management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP financial measures for planning purposes, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, as a measure of our operating performance, to assess the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance; adjusted EBITDA provides more consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our operations and also facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results; and our investor and analyst presentations include adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our overall operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net loss or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The use of adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool has limitations such as: depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, and the assets being depreciated or amortized will often have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA may not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that could reduce cash available for use; and other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. 41 Table of Contents Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA together with our GAAP financial measures including cash flow from operations and net loss. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (26,720) $ (18,569) $ (99,799) $ (55,211) Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 957 3,720 Partnership termination charges 13,244 Stock-based compensation 11,596 10,070 36,915 28,535 Acquisition related costs 1,062 2,784 714 7,550 Depreciation and amortization 12,929 5,932 38,975 17,728 Unoccupied lease charges 1,468 244 2,136 244 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes 116 (31) 621 (307) Interest and other (income) expense, net 6,727 5,157 19,586 10,508 Adjusted EBITDA $ 8,135 $ 5,587 $ 16,112 $ 9,047 Components of Operating Results Revenues Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in either our data centers or with cloud-based services, transaction revenue from bill-pay solutions, and revenues for customer support and implementation services related to our solutions. We recognize the corresponding revenues over time on a ratable basis over the customer agreement term. A small portion of our revenues are derived from customers which host and manage our solutions on-premises or in third-party data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. We recognize the software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license and the remaining arrangement consideration for maintenance revenue over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Subscription fees are based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the number of End Users using the solutions and the number of bill-pay and certain other transactions those users conduct using our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. Subscription fees are billed monthly, quarterly, or annually and are recognized monthly over the term of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. The structure and terms of the arrangements for our newer lending and leasing and BaaS solutions are varied, but we generally sell these solutions on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. We begin recognizing subscription fees when the control of the service transfers to the customer, generally when the solution is implemented and made available to the customer. The timing of our implementations varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We recognize any related implementation services revenues ratably over the initial customer agreement term beginning on the date we commence recognizing subscription fees. Contract asset balances arise primarily when we provide services in advance of billing for those services. Amounts that have been invoiced but not paid are recorded in accounts receivable or other long-term assets, depending on the timing of expected billing, and in revenues or deferred revenues, depending on when control of the service transfers to the customer. Global health concerns with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have caused significant disruption to the macroeconomic environment, and the pandemic has significantly increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending. Although we believe the pandemic could accelerate the transition to digital financial solutions and that our portfolio of digital financial services solutions and our position and reputation in the market provide us with an opportunity to continue to serve clients and grow our business, as a result of the economic and operational impact of the pandemic on our customers, our bookings, in particular with respect to new customer agreements, have been and we anticipate will continue to be adversely impacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, although at this time we are unable to the predict the extent or duration of such impact. We believe this delay in bookings has been and will continue to be most significant (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management lending solutions particularly with respect to enterprise customers, because the target customers for these solutions have focused their internal resources on responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, including by providing loans through government stimulus programs such as the 42 Table of Contents federal "Paycheck Protection Program." Further, with recent increases in COVID-19 cases in Europe and corresponding additional shelter-in-place and similar restrictions, we expect to see a continued negative impact in the near term on bookings from the sale of our digital lending and leasing solutions to European-based customers. We have experienced a less significant overall bookings impact (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our digital banking solutions. We have, however, experienced a significant slowing of net new customer deals, partially offset by an increase in cross sales of additional features and functionality to our existing customer base due to the increased utilization and demand for digital banking solutions caused by the decreased in-branch operations resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. During the quarter ended June 30, 2020, the negative impact to bookings and revenue from the sale of our Cloud Lending digital lending and leasing solutions was significantly offset by our sales and implementation of new offerings of these solutions designed to facilitate loans under the "Paycheck Protection Program" and similar government stimulus programs in the U.S. and abroad. We did not experience similar benefits to revenues or bookings from stimulus programs in the quarter ended September 30, 2020 and do not currently expect any similar future revenues or bookings impacts related to stimulus programs or benefits. Given the uncertainty that still surrounds the COVID-19 pandemic and the November 2020 election, we are expecting sales performance across all our solutions to continue to be slower than normal during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 and for the foreseeable future. However, based on feedback we have received from our existing and prospective customers and observations from our sales team after operating for over seven months during the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe we will begin to see improvements in the predictability of purchasing decisions and implementations by customers, and a corresponding gradual increase in bookings, beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2020 and continuing through the first half of 2021, although at this time we are unable to predict the extent of such improvement. However, the duration and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to be highly unpredictable and may continue to disrupt any seasonality trends that may otherwise typically be inherent in our historical operating results. We also have experienced and expect to continue to experience delays in some implementations and the associated revenue recognition as our customers focus on other initiatives in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and manage their own operations in light of the pandemic. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience certain customers requesting reduced or extended payment terms to assist them with cost reduction measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which we intend to make conditional on associated contract extensions to offset the impact of the reduced payments. Accordingly, we expect the impacts of COVID-19 to have a negative impact on our revenues, gross margins and cash flows from operations for so long as such conditions persist. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration, severity and spread of the pandemic, related restrictions on travel and transportation and other actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact to the business of our suppliers or customers, and other items identified under "Risk Factors" below, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect the spread of COVID-19 as a global pandemic may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the pandemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for employees providing services to our customers. This includes the costs of our implementation, customer support, data center and customer training personnel, as well as costs related to research and development personnel who perform implementation and customer support services. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, the amortization of deferred solution and services costs, co-location facility costs and depreciation of our data center assets, cloud-based hosting services, an allocation of general overhead costs, the amortization of acquired technology, and referral fees. We allocate general overhead expenses to all departments based on the number of employees in each department, which we consider to be a fair and representative means of allocation. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for an implementation once revenue recognition commences, and we amortize those implementation costs to cost of revenues over the expected period of customer benefit, which has been determined to be the estimated life of the technology. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We capitalize certain software development costs related to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions. We have commenced amortization of capitalized costs in which products have reached general release. Capitalized software development costs are computed on an individual product basis and products available for market are amortized to cost of revenues over the products' estimated economic lives. We intend to continue to increase our investments in our implementation and customer support teams and technology infrastructure to serve our customers and support our growth, including potential incremental investments to address the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations. Over the long term, we expect cost of revenues to continue to grow in 43 Table of Contents absolute dollars as we grow our business but to fluctuate as a percentage of revenues based principally on the level and timing of implementation and support activities and other related costs, including during periods where revenues are lower or implementations are delayed due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. They also include costs related to our acquisitions and the resulting amortization of acquired intangible assets from those acquisitions. Over the long term, we intend to continue to hire new employees and make other investments to support our anticipated growth. As a result, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of revenues over the long term as we grow our business. However, in response to the uncertainties presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, in the short term we have reduced our hiring plans for 2020 and are limiting hiring and other investments mainly to essential support, delivery and infrastructure roles. Due to shelter-in-place and similar government orders, nearly all of our employees are working remotely from home and we have suspended all non-essential business travel and conference participation, including cancelling in-person attendance at our own customer conference typically held in April and instead holding it virtually. As a result, certain costs associated with operating physical locations and facilitating employee travel will be reduced during periods when such restrictive measures are in place, although we may incur additional costs necessary to facilitate and support a remote workforce for an extended period of time. As of the filing date of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, we plan to remain operating virtually at least through the remainder of 2020. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including commissions, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to advertising, lead generation, promotional event programs, corporate communications, travel and allocated overhead. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues will change in any given period based on several factors including the addition of newly-hired sales professionals, the number and timing of newly-installed customers and the amount of sales commissions expense amortized related to those customers, including during periods where revenues are lower or implementations are delayed due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Commissions are generally capitalized and then amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Research and Development We believe that continuing to improve and enhance our solutions is essential to maintaining our reputation for innovation and growing our customer base and revenues. Research and development expenses include salaries and personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, software development costs, allocated overhead and other related expenses incurred in developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions. Certain research and development costs that are related to our software development, which include salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits and bonuses attributed to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions, are capitalized and are included in intangible assets, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, legal and human resources employees. General and administrative expenses also include consulting and professional fees, insurance and travel. We expect to continue to incur incremental expenses associated with the growth of our business and to meet increased compliance requirements associated with operating as a regulated, public company. These expenses include costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations governing public companies, increased costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance and investor relations activities. Acquisition Related Costs Acquisition related costs include compensation expenses related to milestone provisions and retention agreements with certain former shareholders and employees of acquired businesses, which are recognized as earned, changes in fair value of the contingent consideration related to potential acquisition earnout payments and various legal and professional service expenses incurred in connection with the acquisitions, which are recognized when incurred. 44 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Amortization of acquired intangibles represents the amortization of intangibles recorded in connection with our business acquisitions which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Partnership Termination Charges Partnership termination charges represent the fees paid related to termination of a strategic partnership during the quarter ended June 30, 2020. These charges are non-recurring in nature and would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our organic business operations. Unoccupied Lease Charges Unoccupied lease charges include costs related to the early vacating of certain facilities, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from the associated facilities. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and expense and loss on disposal of long-lived assets. We earn interest income on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes issued in February 2018, or 2023 Notes, and our convertible notes issued in June 2019, or 2026 Notes, as well as fees and interest associated with the letter of credit issued to our landlord for the security deposit for our corporate headquarters. Benefit from (Provision for) Income Taxes As a result of our current net operating loss position, current income tax expenses and benefits consist primarily of state income taxes, deferred income tax expenses relating to the tax amortization of recently acquired goodwill, and income tax expense from foreign operations. 45 Table of Contents Results of Operations Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss Data The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenues (1) $ 103,804 $ 79,702 $ 293,765 $ 228,644 Cost of revenues (2)(3) 57,366 40,447 163,676 117,683 Gross profit 46,438 39,255 130,089 110,961 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (3) 18,403 15,700 54,597 47,371 Research and development (3) 23,568 19,617 72,168 56,392 General and administrative (3) 17,563 13,418 53,876 41,357 Acquisition related costs (4) 818 2,758 (22) 7,453 Amortization of acquired intangibles 4,465 912 13,447 3,032 Partnership termination charges 13,244 Unoccupied lease charges (5) 1,468 244 2,136 244 Total operating expenses 66,285 52,649 209,446 155,849 Loss from operations (19,847) (13,394) (79,357) (44,888) Total other income (expense), net (6,757) (5,206) (19,821) (10,630) Loss before income taxes (26,604) (18,600) (99,178) (55,518) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes (116) 31 (621) 307 Net loss $ (26,720) $ (18,569) $ (99,799) $ (55,211) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting of $1.0 million and $3.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively. (2) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $5.3 million and $1.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and $16.2 million and $5.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (3) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Cost of revenues $ 2,110 $ 1,478 $ 7,422 $ 4,454 Sales and marketing 2,209 2,060 6,353 5,462 Research and development 2,901 2,598 9,780 7,083 General and administrative 4,376 3,934 13,360 11,536 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 11,596 $ 10,070 $ 36,915 $ 28,535 (4) The nine months ended September 30, 2020 includes a $2.9 million reduction to estimated contingent consideration as a result of the actual contingent consideration calculated as of the final measurement date of March 31, 2020. (5) Unoccupied lease charges include costs related to the early vacating of various facilities, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from these facilities. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, the charges related to facilities in California, North Carolina, and Texas, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the charges related to facilities in Georgia. 46 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenues for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenues (1) 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues (2)(3) 55.3 50.7 55.7 51.5 Gross profit 44.7 49.3 44.3 48.5 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (3) 17.7 19.7 18.6 20.7 Research and development (3) 22.7 24.6 24.6 24.7 General and administrative (3) 16.9 16.8 18.3 18.1 Acquisition related costs (4) 0.8 3.5 3.3 Amortization of acquired intangibles 4.3 1.1 4.6 1.3 Partnership termination charges 4.5 Unoccupied lease charges (5) 1.4 0.3 0.7 0.1 Total operating expenses 63.9 66.1 71.3 68.2 Loss from operations (19.1) (16.8) (27.0) (19.6) Total other income (expense), net (6.5) (6.5) (6.7) (4.6) Loss before income taxes (25.6) (23.3) (33.8) (24.3) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes (0.1) (0.2) 0.1 Net loss (25.7) % (23.3) % (34.0) % (24.1) % ______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting of 0.9% and 1.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively. (2) Includes amortization of acquired technology of 5.1% and 2.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and 5.5% and 2.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (3) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Cost of revenues 2.0 % 1.9 % 2.5 % 1.9 % Sales and marketing 2.1 2.6 2.2 2.4 Research and development 2.8 3.3 3.3 3.1 General and administrative 4.2 4.9 4.5 5.0 Total stock-based compensation expense 11.2 % 12.6 % 12.6 % 12.5 % (4) The nine months ended September 30, 2020 includes a 1.0% reduction to estimated contingent consideration as a result of the actual contingent consideration calculated as of the final measurement date of March 31, 2020. (5) Unoccupied lease charges include costs related to the early vacating of various facilities, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from these facilities. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, the charges related to facilities in California, North Carolina, and Texas, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the charges related to the facilities in Georgia. Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the line items in the tables above. 47 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 Revenues The following table presents our revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Revenues $ 103,804 $ 79,702 $ 24,102 30.2 % $ 293,765 $ 228,644 $ 65,121 28.5 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Revenues increased by $24.1 million, or 30.2%, from $79.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $103.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $16.2 million increase from the sale of additional solutions to new and existing customers and growth in Registered Users from new and existing customers. In addition, $5.7 million of the increase was generated from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and $2.2 million of the increase was generated from an increase in the number of transactions processed using our solutions. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Revenues increased by $65.1 million, or 28.5%, from $228.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to $293.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $43.1 million increase from the sale of additional solutions to new and existing customers and growth in Registered Users from new and existing customers. In addition, $14.8 million of the increase was generated from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, $5.2 million of the increase was generated from an increase in the number of transactions processed using our solutions, and $2.0 million of the increase was generated from our "Paycheck Protection Program" solutions as a result of successfully funded applications during the nine months ended September 30, 2020. Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Cost of revenues $ 57,366 $ 40,447 $ 16,919 41.8 % $ 163,676 $ 117,683 $ 45,993 39.1 % Percentage of revenues 55.3 % 50.7 % 55.7 % 51.5 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Cost of revenues increased by $16.9 million, or 41.8%, from $40.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $57.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was attributable to a $6.1 million increase in personnel costs due to an increase in the number of personnel who provide implementation and customer support and maintain our data centers and other technical infrastructure, which included a $1.3 million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $0.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to cost of revenues for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. In addition, there was a $3.9 million increase in co-location facility costs and depreciation for our data center assets resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support our growing customer base, a $3.3 million increase from amortization of acquired customer technology resulting from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, a $1.9 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs incurred as a result of the increase in Registered Users from new and existing customers, as well as implementation and support personnel expenses that are reimbursable from our customers, a $1.1 million increase from amortization of capitalized implementation services as a result of customer go lives during the three months ended September 30, 2020, a $0.6 million increase in overhead costs which were allocated to our implementation and support departments, and a $0.4 million increase in other discretionary expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in travel-related expenses of $0.4 million due to significantly reduced travel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Cost of revenues increased by $46.0 million, or 39.1%, from $117.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to $163.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was attributable to a $19.2 million increase in personnel costs due to an increase in the number of personnel who provide implementation and customer support and maintain our data centers and 48 Table of Contents other technical infrastructure, which included a $4.0 million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $2.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to cost of revenues for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. In addition, there was a $10.7 million increase from amortization of acquired customer technology resulting from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, a $6.6 million increase in co-location facility costs and depreciation for our data center assets resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support our growing customer base, a $4.7 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs incurred as a result of the increase in Registered Users from new and existing customers, as well as implementation and support personnel expenses that are reimbursable from our customers, a $2.4 million increase from amortization of capitalized implementation services as a result of customer go lives during the nine months ended September 30, 2020, a $2.1 million increase in overhead costs which were allocated to our implementation and support departments, and a $1.1 million increase in other discretionary expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in travel-related expenses of $0.8 million due to significantly reduced travel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We defer certain personnel and other costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are recoverable from future revenues. However, a substantial portion of our implementation costs are not eligible for deferral and, as a result, are expensed in the period incurred. Costs related to implementations that have been deferred are amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Additionally, we invest in personnel, business processes and systems infrastructure to standardize our business processes and drive future efficiency in our implementations, customer support and data center operations. We expect these investments will increase cost of revenues in absolute dollars as we continue to make investments in capacity and process improvement, including in response to the impacts on our operations of the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating Expenses The following tables present our operating expenses for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Sales and marketing $ 18,403 $ 15,700 $ 2,703 17.2 % $ 54,597 $ 47,371 $ 7,226 15.3 % Percentage of revenues 17.7 % 19.7 % 18.6 % 20.7 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $2.7 million, or 17.2%, from $15.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $18.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was primarily attributable to a $3.1 million increase in personnel costs due to the growth of our sales and marketing organizations, which included a $2.2 million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $0.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to sales and marketing expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. In addition, there was a $0.9 million increase in marketing expenses related to cancellation of all in-person aspects of our spring 2021 client conference due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a $0.1 million increase in other overhead costs which were allocated to our sales and marketing departments, partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in travel-related expenses due to significantly reduced travel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and a $0.5 million decrease in other discretionary expenses primarily related to reduced trade show activities and other events as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $7.2 million, or 15.3%, from $47.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to $54.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was primarily attributable to a $10.7 million increase in personnel costs due to the growth of our sales and marketing organizations, which included a $6.4 million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $0.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to sales and marketing expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. In addition, there was a $0.9 million increase in marketing expenses related to cancellation of all in-person aspects of our spring 2021 client conference due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a $0.6 million increase in other overhead costs which were allocated to our sales and marketing departments. These increases were partially offset by a $2.6 million decrease in other discretionary expenses primarily related to reduced 49 Table of Contents trade show activities and other events as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and a $2.4 million decrease in travel-related expenses due to significantly reduced travel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Research and development $ 23,568 $ 19,617 $ 3,951 20.1 % $ 72,168 $ 56,392 $ 15,776 28.0 % Percentage of revenues 22.7 % 24.6 % 24.6 % 24.7 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Research and development expenses increased by $4.0 million, or 20.1%, from $19.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $23.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was primarily attributable to a $4.3 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions, which included a $2.6 million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to research and development expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. Additionally, there was a $0.2 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our research and development departments. These increases were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in travel-related and other discretionary expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and a $0.2 million decrease as a result of increased capitalized software development costs. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Research and development expenses increased by $15.8 million, or 28.0%, from $56.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to $72.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This increase was primarily attributable to a $16.2 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions, which included a $7.7 million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $2.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to research and development expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. Additionally, there was a $0.8 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our research and development departments. These increases were partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in travel-related and other discretionary expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and a $0.5 million decrease as a result of increased capitalized software development costs. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to support and expand our platform and enhance our existing solutions, as we believe existing customers will have an increased focus on maintaining and improving their digital banking offerings, including functionality such as digital account opening and online lending. In particular, government stimulus programs enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the Paycheck Protection Program, also have provided our financial institution customers with additional opportunities to originate and mange small business loans. To assist financial institutions with processing and managing these loans, our Q2 Cloud Lending team designed, developed and delivered a paycheck protection program solution designed to help our financial institution customers perform the entire paycheck protection program loan application and disbursement process digitally. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) General and administrative $ 17,563 $ 13,418 $ 4,145 30.9 % $ 53,876 $ 41,357 $ 12,519 30.3 % Percentage of revenues 16.9 % 16.8 % 18.3 % 18.1 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. General and administrative expenses increased by $4.1 million, or 30.9%, from $13.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $17.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $2.4 million increase in personnel costs to support the growth of our business, which included a $0.8 50 Table of Contents million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to general and administrative expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. In addition, there was a $0.8 million increase in expenses, in which we used savings from decreased office expenses and travel, to assist employees and enhance their remote working experience, a $0.6 million increase in overhead costs which were allocated to our general and administrative departments, a $0.2 million increase in discretionary spending, a $0.2 million increase in bad debt expense due to additional estimated credit losses from the adoption of ASU 2016-13, and a $0.2 million increase in professional services for legal and compliance fees. These increases were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in travel-related expenses due to significantly reduced travel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. General and administrative expenses increased by $12.5 million or 30.3%, from $41.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to $53.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $6.7 million increase in personnel costs to support the growth of our business, which included a $2.9 million increase in personnel costs from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019, and a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to general and administrative expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the fair value of the awards granted due to the variance in our stock price. In addition, there was a $1.9 million increase in overhead costs which were allocated to our general and administrative departments, a $1.3 million increase in professional services for legal and compliance fees, a $1.3 million increase in bad debt expense due to additional estimated credit losses from the adoption of ASU 2016-13, a $0.8 million increase in expenses, in which we used savings from decreased office expenses and travel, to assist employees and enhance their remote working experience, a $0.2 million increase in discretionary spending, and a $0.5 million increase for price concessions given to customers related to isolated delivery issues of certain of our solutions. These increases were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in travel-related expenses due to significantly reduced travel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, legal and human resources employees. General and administrative expenses also include costs to comply with regulations governing public companies, costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance, investor relations activities and costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX. Over the long term, we anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to incur both increased external audit fees as well as additional spending to ensure continued regulatory and SOX compliance. In the near term, we anticipate that these investments will increase general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues as we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the longer term as our revenues grow. Acquisition Related Costs Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Acquisition related costs $ 818 $ 2,758 $ (1,940) (70.3) % $ (22) $ 7,453 $ (7,475) (100.3) % Percentage of revenues 0.8 % 3.5 % % 3.3 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Acquisition related costs decreased by $1.9 million, or 70.3%, from $2.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. Acquisition related costs for the three months ended September 30, 2020 included $0.8 million of compensation expense related to the retention bonuses for employees of companies acquired in the fourth quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2019. Acquisition related costs for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was comprised of a $1.4 million adjustment to the fair value of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cloud Lending, $1.0 million in legal, professional services, and other costs associated with the acquisition of PrecisionLender and $0.3 million of compensation expense related to the retention bonuses for employees of companies acquired in 2018. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Acquisition related costs decreased by $7.5 million, or 100.3%, from $7.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to a net positive adjustment of $0.02 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The amount for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 included a $2.9 million negative adjustment to the value of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cloud Lending which was consummated in October 2018 based on actual achievement, partially offset by $2.6 million of compensation expense related to the retention bonuses for employees of companies acquired in the fourth quarter of 2018 and 51 Table of Contents the fourth quarter of 2019 and $0.3 million of additional legal, professional services and other costs, while acquisition related costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was comprised of a $4.9 million adjustment to the fair value of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cloud Lending, $1.5 million of compensation expense related to the retention bonuses for employees of companies acquired in 2018, and $1.0 million in legal, professional services, and other costs associated with the acquisition of PrecisionLender. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 4,465 $ 912 $ 3,553 389.6 % $ 13,447 $ 3,032 $ 10,415 343.5 % Percentage of revenues 4.3 % 1.1 % 4.6 % 1.3 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Amortization of acquired intangibles increased by $3.6 million, or 389.6%, from $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $4.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 as a result of the intangible assets recorded from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019. The acquired intangible assets are also related to our business combinations in 2018 and 2015 as well as our asset purchase in 2017. These amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Amortization of acquired intangibles increased by $10.4 million, or 343.5%, from $3.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to $13.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 as a result of the intangible assets recorded from the business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2019. The acquired intangible assets are also related to our business combinations in 2018 and 2015 as well as our asset purchase in 2017. These amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Unoccupied Lease Charges Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Unoccupied lease charges $ 1,468 $ 244 $ 1,224 501.6 % $ 2,136 $ 244 $ 1,892 775.4 % Percentage of revenues 1.4 % 0.3 % 0.7 % 0.1 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Unoccupied lease charges increased by $1.2 million, or 501.6%, from $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $1.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020. During the three months ended September 30, 2020, the charges included costs related to the early vacating of facilities in North Carolina and Texas, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from these facilities. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the charges included costs related to the early vacating of facilities in Georgia, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from these facilities. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Unoccupied lease charges increased by $1.9 million, or 775.4%, from $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 to $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, the charges included costs related to the early vacating of facilities in California, North Carolina, and Texas, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from these facilities. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the charges included costs related to the early vacating of facilities in Georgia, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from these facilities. 52 Table of Contents Total Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Total other income (expense), net $ (6,757) $ (5,206) $ (1,551) (29.8) % $ (19,821) $ (10,630) $ (9,191) (86.5) % Percentage of revenues (6.5) % (6.5) % (6.7) % (4.6) % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Total other income (expense), net represented a net expense of $6.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to a net expense of $5.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2020 consisted of $7.0 million from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes issued in February 2018 and June 2019, and other interest expense, partially offset by $0.3 million of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, while the interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 consisted of $6.4 million of interest expense from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes issued in February 2018 and a loss on disposal of long-lived assets of $0.1 million, partially offset by $1.3 million of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Total other income (expense), net represented a net expense of $19.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to a net expense of $10.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 consisted of $20.6 million from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes issued in February 2018 and June 2019, and other interest expense and a $0.2 million loss on foreign currency translation, partially offset by $1.0 million of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, while the interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 consisted of $13.2 million of interest expense from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes issued in February 2018 and a loss on disposal of long-lived assets of $0.3 million, partially offset by $3.0 million of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Benefit from (provision for) income taxes Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ (%) 2020 2019 $ (%) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes $ (116) $ 31 $ (147) (474.2) % $ (621) $ 307 $ (928) (302.3) % Percentage of revenues (0.1) % % (0.2) % 0.1 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2019. Total benefit from (provision for) income taxes represented an expense of $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to a benefit of $0.03 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. As a result of our current net operating loss position, current income tax expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2020 consist primarily of federal income taxes of $0.2 million relating to the tax amortization of recently acquired goodwill and $0.1 million in income tax expense from foreign operations, partially offset by $0.2 million in income tax benefit relating to unrecognized tax benefits. The income tax benefit for the three months ended September 30, 2019 consisted primarily of income tax benefit from foreign operations. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019. Total benefit from (provision for) income taxes represented an expense of $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to a benefit of $0.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. As a result of our current net operating loss position, current income tax expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 consist primarily of federal income taxes of $0.9 million relating to the tax amortization of recently acquired goodwill, $0.2 million in income tax expense from foreign operations, and $0.1 million in state income tax expense, partially offset by $0.6 million in income tax benefits, which consist primarily of $0.4 million relating to foreign tax reserves and $0.2 million relating to unrecognized tax benefits. The income tax benefit for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 consisted primarily of state income tax benefit of $0.5 million relating to the Texas R&D credit, partially offset by $0.2 million in income tax expense from foreign operations. 53 Table of Contents Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our overall operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of investments in growing our business. The timing of our implementation activities and corresponding revenues from new customers are subject to fluctuation based on the timing of our sales. Historically, sales have tended to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in subsequent quarters but any resulting impact on our results of operation has been difficult to measure due to the timing of our implementations and overall growth in our business. The timing of our implementations also varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. Global health concerns with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have caused significant disruption to the macroeconomic environment, and the pandemic has significantly increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending. As a result, although at this time we are unable to the predict the extent or duration of such impact, our bookings, in particular with respect to new customer agreements, have been and we anticipate will continue to be adversely impacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which will negatively impact future revenues and disrupt any seasonality that may otherwise typically be seen in our operating results. We believe this delay in bookings has been and will continue to be most significant (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management lending solutions particularly with respect to enterprise customers, because the target customers for these solutions have focused their internal resources on responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, including by providing loans through government stimulus programs such as the federal "Paycheck Protection Program." Further, with recent increases in COVID-19 cases in Europe and corresponding additional shelter-in-place and similar restrictions, we expect to see a continued negative impact in the near term on bookings from the sale of our digital lending and leasing solutions to European-based customers. We have experienced a less significant overall bookings impact (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our digital banking solutions. We have, however, experienced a significant slowing of net new customer deals, partially offset by an increase in cross sales of additional features and functionality to our existing customer base due to the increased utilization and demand for digital banking solutions caused by the decreased in-branch operations resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. During the quarter ended June 30, 2020, the negative impact to bookings and revenue from the sale of our Cloud Lending digital lending and leasing solutions was significantly offset by our sales and implementation of new offerings of these solutions designed to facilitate loans under the "Paycheck Protection Program" and similar government stimulus programs in the U.S. and abroad. We did not experience similar benefits to revenues or bookings from stimulus programs in the quarter ended September 30, 2020 and do not currently expect any similar future revenues or bookings impacts related to stimulus programs or benefits. Given the uncertainty that still surrounds the COVID-19 pandemic and the November 2020 election, we are expecting sales performance across all our solutions to continue to be slower than normal during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 and for the foreseeable future. However, based on feedback we have received from our existing and prospective customers and observations from our sales team after operating for over seven months during the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe we will begin to see improvements in the predictability of purchasing decisions and implementations by customers, and a corresponding gradual increase in bookings, beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2020 and continuing through the first half of 2021, although at this time we are unable to predict the extent of such improvement. However, the duration and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to be highly unpredictable. We also have experienced and expect to continue to experience delayed implementations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as our customers focus on other initiatives in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and manage their own operations in light of the pandemic. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration, severity and spread of the pandemic, related restrictions on travel and transportation and other actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact to the business of our suppliers or customers, and other items identified under "Risk Factors" below, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect the spread of COVID-19 as a global pandemic may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the pandemic is highly uncertain and subject to change and may have an unusual impact on any seasonal trends we may have experienced in the past. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of engagement between our customers and their End Users. As a result, we and our customers are very deliberate and careful in our implementation activities to help ensure a successful roll-out of the solutions to End Users and increase the registration of new End Users. Unusually long or short implementations, for even a small number of customers, may result in short-term quarterly variability in our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future, including as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. 54 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity We have financed our operations primarily through the proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering in March 2014, and additional registered common stock offerings, including our May 2020 and June 2019 common stock offerings, cash flows from operations, our February 2018 convertible note offering, and our June 2019 convertible note offering. As of September 30, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and investments of $396.1 million. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience certain customers requesting reduced or extended payment terms to assist them with cost reduction measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which we intend to make conditional on associated contract extensions to offset the impact of the reduced payments. Accordingly, we expect the impacts of COVID-19 to have a negative impact on our revenues, gross margins and cash flows from operations. In response to the uncertainties presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have reduced our hiring plans for 2020 and are limiting hiring and other investments mainly to essential support, delivery and infrastructure roles. We are also considering how our physical facilities requirements might change when we eventually return to increased onsite operations, including the costs associated with ensuring a safe work environment and the likely increased prevalence of working from home for many employees. Based upon our current levels of operations, and our current expectations regarding the impacts of COVID-19 on our operations and financial performance, we believe that our cash flow from operations along with our other sources of liquidity are adequate to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. However, if we experience further reductions in our cash flow from operations due to any of the risk factors identified under, but not limited to, "Risk Factors" below, including any further impacts related to COVID-19, we may need to further adjust our capital, operating and other discretionary spending to realign our working capital requirements with the capital resources available to us. Additionally, if we determine the need for additional short-term liquidity, there is no assurance that such financing, if pursued and obtained, would be adequate or on terms acceptable to us. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (21,979) $ (1,328) Investing activities (15,939) 20,627 Financing activities 303,027 473,853 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 265,109 $ 493,152 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities is primarily influenced by the amount and timing of customer receipts and vendor payments, fair value re-measurement related to contingent earnout payment liabilities and by the amount of cash we invest in personnel and infrastructure to support the anticipated growth of our business and increase in the number of installed customers. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, our net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities were $22.0 million, which consisted of a net loss of $99.8 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $32.9 million, partially offset by non-cash adjustments of $110.8 million. Cash outflows were the result of a $28.5 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period, a $20.3 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of annual billings at the end of the current quarter, a $5.4 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base and related growth in our technical infrastructure and payment of annual bonuses during the first quarter, a $4.2 million increase in contract assets, and a $2.6 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to timing of various prepaid expenses. Cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows resulting from a $19.1 million increase in deferred revenue due to increased payments and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments, a $5.6 million increase in other long-term liabilities, and a $3.4 million decrease in other long-term assets primarily from amortization of our right-of-use assets. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $39.0 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, $38.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $16.8 million in amortization of the 2023 Notes and 2026 Notes discounts and related debt issuance costs, $13.9 million of amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, $2.1 million of unoccupied lease charges and $0.8 million of other non-cash items. 55 Table of Contents For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, our net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities were $1.3 million, which consisted of a net loss of $55.2 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $14.5 million, partially offset by non-cash adjustments of $68.4 million. Cash outflows were the result of a $26.8 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period, a $4.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings at the end of the current quarter, a $3.9 million increase in contract assets, a $2.0 million decrease in other long-term liabilities, and a $1.9 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to various prepaid expenses. Cash inflows were the result of a $11.8 million increase in deferred revenue due to increased payments and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments, an $8.8 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base and related growth in our technical infrastructure, and a $4.4 million decrease in other long-term assets. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $29.4 million of stock-based compensation expense, $17.7 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, $11.2 million in amortization of the 2023 Notes and 2026 Notes, or the Convertible Notes, discounts and related debt issuance costs, $9.7 million of amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, and $0.4 million of other non-cash items. Although we believe the pandemic could accelerate the transition to digital financial solutions and that our portfolio of digital financial services solutions and our position and reputation in the market provide us with an opportunity to continue to serve clients and grow our business, as a result of the economic and operational impact of the pandemic on our customers, our bookings, in particular with respect to new customer agreements, have been and we anticipate will continue to be adversely impacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, although at this time we are unable to the predict the extent or duration of such impact. We believe this delay in bookings has been and will continue to be most significant (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management lending solutions particularly with respect to enterprise customers, because the target customers for these solutions have focused their internal resources on responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, including by providing loans through government stimulus programs such as the federal "Paycheck Protection Program." Further, with recent increases in COVID-19 cases in Europe and corresponding additional shelter-in-place and similar restrictions, we expect to see a continued negative impact in the near term on bookings from the sale of our digital lending and leasing solutions to European-based customers. We have experienced a less significant overall bookings impact (relative to our expectations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) with respect to our digital banking solutions. We have, however, experienced a significant slowing of net new customer deals, partially offset by an increase in cross sales of additional features and functionality to our existing customer base due to the increased utilization and demand for digital banking solutions caused by the decreased in-branch operations resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. We also have experienced and expect to continue to experience delayed implementations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic as our customers focus on other initiatives in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and manage their own operations in light of the pandemic. We anticipate that reduced bookings, in particular for new customer agreements, will result in collection of fewer deposits that we typically collect from customers in advance of implementing our solutions for them and that delays in implementation will result in delays in our ability to invoice for and collect fees for our solutions. We also have experienced certain customers requesting reduced or extended payment terms to assist them with cost reduction measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which we intend to make conditional on associated contract extensions to offset the impact of the reduced payments. For these and other reasons, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows from operations. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments, our recent acquisitions, purchases of property and equipment to support our growth, and costs incurred for the development of capitalized software. Purchases of property and equipment may vary period-to-period due to the timing of the expansion of our operations, data center and other technical infrastructure. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, our net cash used in investing activities was $15.9 million, consisting of $23.6 million from purchases of investments, $16.5 million for the purchase of property and equipment and $0.7 million from capitalized software development costs, partially offset by $24.9 million from maturities of investments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash provided by investing activities was $20.6 million, consisting primarily of $60.7 million from maturities of investments, partially offset by $27.3 million for the purchase of investments, $12.5 million for the purchase of property and equipment, and $0.3 million from the purchase of intangible assets. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 consisted primarily of our May 2020 and June 2019 common stock offerings, the payment of contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cloud Lending which 56 Table of Contents was consummated in October 2018, our June 2019 convertible note offering, and net proceeds from exercises of options to purchase our common stock. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities of $303.0 million was primarily due to the proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $311.3 million, net of issuance costs, from the May 2020 common stock offering and $8.6 million of cash received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by the payment of contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cloud Lending, of which $16.9 million of the payment was estimated at acquisition date fair value and included in financing activities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash provided by financing activities of $473.9 million was due to the issuance of $307.0 million principal amount of the 2026 Notes, net of issuance costs, partially offset by the Capped Call transactions of $40.8 million, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $195.3 million, net of issuance costs, from the June 2019 common stock offering. In addition, cash flows from financing activities included $12.3 million of net cash received from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, and subsequent to September 30, 2020, except as noted below, there were no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments disclosures as set forth under the caption, "Contractual Obligations and Commitments" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2020. As of September 30, 2020, our total lease payment obligations were $84.2 million, of which $31.8 million was included in lease liabilities, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. In the quarter ended June 30, 2020, in connection with the termination of a strategic partnership, we paid a termination fee of $5.6 million in May 2020 with a remaining payment of $7.6 million to be made in the third quarter of 2021. The unpaid portion of the termination fee was included in accrued liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2020. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments at September 30, 2020 (in thousands): Payment due by period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total Convertible Notes, including interest $ 4,097 $ 237,331 $ 4,744 $ 318,622 $ 564,794 Operating lease obligations 9,878 23,960 21,559 28,786 84,183 Purchase commitments 27,943 29,094 297 57,334 $ 41,918 $ 290,385 $ 26,600 $ 347,408 $ 706,311 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K, such as the use of unconsolidated subsidiaries, structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326)" which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2020. The standard impacted our accounting for allowances for credit losses, available-for-sale debt securities and other assets subject to credit risk. Credit losses on trade and other receivables, contract assets, available-for-sale debt securities, and other instruments reflect our current estimate of the expected credit losses and generally result in the earlier recognition of allowance for losses. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of a cumulative-effect adjustment to accumulated deficit of $0.3 million on January 1, 2020. We will continue to actively monitor the impact of the recent COVID-19 pandemic on expected credit losses. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment" which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment by removing Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test and requires an entity to write down the carrying value of goodwill up to the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years and early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests 57 Table of Contents performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2020. There was no material impact on our financial position and results of operations based on the adoption of ASU 2017-04. In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, "Debt - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entity's Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40)" which simplifies the accounting for convertible debt instruments by eliminating the requirement to separate embedded conversion features from the host contract when the conversion features are not required to be accounted for as derivatives under Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, or that do not result in substantial premiums accounted for as paid-in capital. In addition, the guidance eliminates the treasury stock method to calculate diluted earnings per share for convertible instruments and requires the use of the if-converted method. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the potential effects of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent liabilities in our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company's critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates: Revenue recognition; Contract balances; Accounts receivable; Deferred revenues; Deferred implementation costs; Deferred solution and other costs; Stock-based compensation; Convertible senior notes; Purchase price allocation, intangible assets and goodwill; Capitalization of software development costs; Leases; Contingent consideration; and Income taxes. We have other key accounting policies which involve the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Of those policies, we believe that the accounting policies enumerated above involve the greatest degree of complexity and exercise of judgment by our management. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies or estimates which were included in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2020. We evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions on an ongoing basis, and while we believe that our estimates, judgments and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. 58 Table of Contents