Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify these statements by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "can," "continue," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans," "seeks," "should," "will," "strategy," "future," "likely," or "would" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or development and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are in some cases beyond our control. All of our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks described under "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings, including the audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 , which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2019. Overview We are a leading provider of secure, cloud-based digital solutions that transform the ways in which traditional and emerging financial services providers engage with account holders and end users, or End Users. We sell our solutions to regional and community financial institutions, or RCFIs, alternative finance and leasing companies, or Alt-FIs, and financial technology companies, or FinTechs. Our solutions enable our customers to deliver robust suites of digital banking, lending, leasing, and banking as a service, or BaaS, services that make it possible for End Users to transact and engage anytime, anywhere and on any device. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of engagement between our customers and their End Users. As such, we purpose-build our solutions to deliver compelling and consistent End User experiences across digital channels and to drive the success of our customers by optimizing their digital brands and enhancing End User acquisition, retention and engagement. The effective delivery and management of secure and advanced digital solutions in the complex and heavily-regulated financial services industry requires significant resources, personnel and expertise. We provide digital solutions that are designed to be highly configurable, scalable and adaptable to the specific needs of our customers. We design and develop our solutions with an open platform approach intended to provide comprehensive integration among our solution offerings and our customers' internal and third-party systems. This integrated approach allows our customers to deliver unified and robust financial experiences across digital channels. Our solutions provide our customers the flexibility to configure their digital services in a manner that is consistent with each customer's specific workflows, processes and controls. Our solutions also allow our customers to personalize the digital experiences they deliver to their End Users by extending their individual services and brand requirements across digital channels. Our solutions and our data center infrastructure and resources are also designed to comply with the stringent security and technical regulations applicable to financial institutions and financial services providers and to safeguard our customers and their End Users. We began by providing digital banking solutions to domestic RCFIs with the mission of empowering them to leverage technology to compete more effectively and to strengthen the communities and End Users they serve. To date, a substantial majority of our revenues continue to come from sales of our digital banking platform to RCFIs, and we continue to be focused 30 Table of Contents on our founding mission of building stronger communities by strengthening their financial institutions. However, the continued proliferation and ubiquity of mobile and tablet devices and End Users' increasing expectations for digital services have driven increases in the number of providers, greater fragmentation of financial services markets and a broadening set of new and innovative digital services, creating challenges and opportunities in the markets served by RCFIs as well as emerging providers such as Alt-FIs and FinTechs. End Users increasingly expect to transact and engage with financial services providers anytime, anywhere and on any device, and seamlessly across devices. End Users also select digital solutions based on the quality and intuitiveness of the digital user experience. RCFIs, Alt-FIs and FinTechs are seeking to address these challenges and opportunities and capture End User engagement by providing new, innovative digital financial services, solutions and experiences. Traditional financial services providers such as banks and credit unions are experiencing reduced End User engagement in their physical branches and increased End User engagement with their digital services and thus they are increasing their investment in digital services. Emerging providers such as Alt-FIs and FinTechs are leveraging their digital focus and expertise and capitalizing on increased End User demand for digital financial services by creating new and expanding existing digital service offerings. This combined investment by traditional and emerging financial services providers is driving further competition, segmentation and innovation. We deliver our solutions to the substantial majority of our customers using a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model under which our customers pay subscription fees for the use of our solutions. A small portion of our revenues are derived from customers which host our solutions in their own data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. Our digital banking platform customers have numerous End Users, and those End Users can represent one or more consumer or commercial users registered on our digital banking platform, or Registered Users on our solutions. We generally price our digital banking platform solutions based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers and the number of Registered Users utilizing our solutions. We generally earn additional revenues from our digital banking platform customers based on the number of transactions that Registered Users perform on our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. As a result, our revenues from digital banking platform customers grow as our customers buy more solutions from us and increase the number of Registered Users utilizing our solutions and as those users increase their number of transactions on our solutions. The structure and terms of the arrangements for our newer lending and leasing and BaaS solutions are varied, but we generally sell these solutions on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. We have achieved significant growth since our inception. During each of the past seven years, our average number of Registered Users per installed customer on our digital banking platform, or Installed Customer, has grown, and we have been able to sell additional solutions to existing customers. Our revenues per Installed Customer and per Registered User vary period-to-period based on the length and timing of customer implementations, changes in the average number of Registered Users per customer, sales of additional solutions to existing customers, changes in the number of transactions on our solutions by Registered Users and variations among existing customers and new customers with respect to the mix of purchased solutions and related pricing. Please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operation Measures" for additional detail on how we define "Installed Customers" and "Registered Users." We believe we have a significant opportunity to continue to grow our business, and we continue to invest across our organization to increase our revenues and improve our operating efficiencies. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute dollar basis, but the timing and amount of these investments will vary based on the rate at which we expect to add new customers, the implementation and support needs of our customers, our software development plans, our technology infrastructure requirements and the internal needs of our organization. Many of these investments will occur in advance of our realizing any resultant benefit which may make it difficult to determine if we are effectively allocating our resources. If we are successful in growing our revenues by increasing the number and scope of our customer relationships, we anticipate that greater economies of scale and increased operating leverage will improve our margins over the long term. We also anticipate that increases in the number of Registered Users for existing digital banking platform customers will improve our margins. However, we do not have any control or influence over whether End Users of our digital banking platform elect to become Registered Users of our customers' digital banking services. We sell our solutions primarily through our professional sales organization. While the RCFI market is well-defined due to the regulatory classifications of those financial institutions, the Alt-FI and FinTech markets are broader and more difficult to define due to the changing number of providers in each market. We intend to add sales representatives to identify and address the RCFI, Alt-FI and FinTech markets across the U.S. and internationally. We also expect to increase our number of sales support and marketing personnel, as well as our investment in marketing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our solutions and generate new customer opportunities. We have continuously invested in expanding and improving our digital banking platform since its introduction in 2005, and we intend to continue investing both organically and inorganically through acquisitions to expand our portfolio. In addition, 31 Table of Contents over the past three years we have acquired or developed new solutions and additional functions that serve a broader range of needs of RCFIs as well as the needs of Alt-FIs and FinTechs. In addition to our acquisitions of Centrix and Social Money in 2015, on October 15, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Cloud Lending, Inc., or Cloud Lending, a provider of an end-to-end digital lending and leasing platform and on November 30, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Gro Solutions, Inc., or Gro, a provider of digital account opening and digital sales and marketing solutions for financial institutions. Our solutions now include a broad range of services and experiences including corporate banking, regulatory and compliance, digital lending and leasing, BaaS and digital account opening and sales and marketing solutions both in the U.S. and internationally. We believe that financial services providers are best served by a broad integrated portfolio of digital solutions that provide rapid, flexible and comprehensive integration with internal and third-party systems allowing them to provide modern, intuitive digital financial services in a secure, regulatory-compliant manner. We also believe that the breadth and depth of our solution offerings across the RCFI, Alt-FI and FinTech markets, our open and flexible platform approach, our position as a leading provider of digital banking solutions to a large network of RCFIs, and our expertise in delivering new, innovative, secure and regulatory-compliant digital solutions uniquely position us in the market for digital financial services solutions. We intend to increase investments in technology innovation and software development as we enhance our solutions and platforms and increase or expand the number of solutions that we offer. We believe that delivery of consistent, high-quality customer support is a significant driver of purchasing and renewal decisions of our prospects and customers. To develop and maintain a reputation for high-quality service, we seek to build deep relationships with our customers through our customer service organization, which we staff with personnel who are motivated by our common mission of using technology to help our customers succeed and who are knowledgeable with respect to the regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry. As we grow our business, we must continue to invest in and grow our services organization to support our customers' needs and maintain our reputation. Key Operating Measures In addition to the United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, measures described below in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsComponents of Operating Results," we monitor the following operating measures to evaluate growth trends, plan investments and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts: Installed Customers We define Installed Customers as the number of customers on our digital banking platform from which we are currently recognizing revenues. The average size of our Installed Customers, measured in both Registered Users per Installed Customer and revenues per Installed Customer, has increased over time as our existing Installed Customers continue to add Registered Users and buy more solutions from us, and as we add larger RCFIs to our Installed Customer base. The net rate at which we add Installed Customers varies based on our implementation capacity, the size and unique needs of our customers, the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions, and customer attrition, including as a result of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions. We had 401, 382 and 385 Installed Customers on our digital banking platform as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Registered Users We define a Registered User as an individual related to an account holder of an Installed Customer on our digital banking platform who has registered to use one or more of our solutions and has current access to use those solutions as of the last day of the reporting period presented. We price our digital banking platform solutions based on the number of Registered Users, so as the number of Registered Users of our solutions increases, our revenues grow. Our average number of Registered Users per Installed Customer grows as our existing digital banking platform customers add more Registered Users and as we add larger RCFIs to our Installed Customer base. We anticipate that the number of Registered Users will grow at a faster rate than our number of Installed Customers. The rate at which our customers add Registered Users and the incremental revenues we recognize from new Registered Users vary significantly period-to-period based on the timing of our implementations of new customers and the timing of registration of new End Users. Our Installed Customers had approximately 12.8 million, 10.4 million and 8.6 million Registered Users as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Registered Users at March 31, 2019 were 13.1 million compared to 10.9 million at March 31, 2018 . Revenue Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our customers and expand their use of our products and services over time is an indicator of the stability of our revenue base and the long-term value of our customer relationships. We assess our performance in this area using a metric we refer to as our revenue retention rate. We calculate our revenue retention rate as the total revenues 32 Table of Contents in a calendar year, excluding any revenues from solutions of businesses acquired during such year, from customers who were implemented on any of our solutions as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of the total revenues during the prior year from the same group of customers. Our revenue retention rate provides insight into the impact on current year revenues of: the number of new customers implemented on any of our solutions during the prior year; the timing of our implementation of those new customers in the prior year; growth in the number of End Users on such solutions and changes in their usage of such solutions; sales of new products and services to our existing customers during the current year, excluding any products or services resulting from businesses acquired during such year; and customer attrition. The most significant drivers of changes in our revenue retention rate each year have historically been the number of new customers in the prior year and the timing of our implementation of those new customers. The timing of our implementation of new customers in the prior year is significant because we do not start recognizing revenues from new customers until they are implemented. If implementations are weighted more heavily in the first or second half of the prior year, our revenue retention rate will be lower or higher, respectively. Our use of revenue retention rate has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate revenue retention rate differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Our revenue retention rate was 114%, 122%, and 122% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Churn We utilize churn to monitor the satisfaction of our customers and evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies. We define churn as the amount of any monthly recurring revenue losses due to customer cancellations and downgrades, net of upgrades and additions of new solutions, during a year, divided by our monthly recurring revenue at the beginning of the year. Cancellations refer to customers that have either stopped using our services completely or remained a customer but terminated a particular service. Downgrades are a result of customers taking less of a particular service or renewing their contract for identical services at a lower price. Our annual churn has ranged from 5.1% to 3.5% over the last seven years, and we had annual churn of 5.0%, 4.9% and 5.1% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our use of churn has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate churn differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss before depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, certain costs related to our recent acquisitions, (benefit from) provision for income taxes, total other (income) expense, net, and unoccupied lease charges. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results for the following reasons: adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a company's operating performance without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing, capital structures and the method by which assets were acquired; our management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP financial measures for planning purposes, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, as a measure of our operating performance, to assess the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance; adjusted EBITDA provides more consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our operations and also facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results; and our investor and analyst presentations include adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our overall operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net loss or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The use of adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool has limitations such as: depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, and the assets being depreciated or amortized will often have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA may not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; 33 Table of Contents adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that could reduce cash available for use; and other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA together with our GAAP financial measures including cash flow from operations and net loss. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (19,311 ) $ (6,048 ) Depreciation and amortization 5,821 3,878 Stock-based compensation expense 8,896 6,095 Benefit from income taxes (39 ) (187 ) Interest and other (income) expense, net 2,178 1,023 Acquisition related costs 2,718 256 Adjusted EBITDA $ 263 $ 5,017 Components of Operating Results Revenues Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the substantial majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in our data centers or with our cloud-based hosting resources as well as revenues for implementation and customer support services related to our solutions, and we recognize the corresponding revenues over time on a ratable basis over the customer agreement term. A small portion of our revenues are derived from customers which host our solutions in their own data centers under term license and maintenance agreements, and we recognize the software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license and corresponding maintenance revenues over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Subscription fees are based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the number of End Users using the solutions and the number of bill-pay and certain other transactions those users conduct using our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. Subscription fees are billed monthly, quarterly, or annually and are recognized monthly over the term of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. The structure and terms of the arrangements for our newer lending and leasing and BaaS solutions are varied, but we generally sell these solutions on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. We begin recognizing subscription fees when the control of the service transfers to the customer, generally when the solution is implemented and made available to the customer. The timing of our implementations varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We recognize any related implementation services revenues ratably over the initial customer agreement term beginning on the date we commence recognizing subscription fees. Contract asset balances arise primarily when we provide services in advance of billing for those services. Amounts that have been invoiced but not paid are recorded in accounts receivable or other long-term assets, depending on the timing of expected billing, and in revenues or deferred revenues, depending on when control of the service transfers to the customer. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for employees providing services to our customers. This includes the costs of our implementation, customer support, data center and customer training personnel, as well as costs related to research and development personnel who perform implementation and customer support services. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, the amortization of deferred solution and 34 Table of Contents services costs, co-location facility costs and depreciation of our data center assets, cloud-based hosting services, an allocation of general overhead costs, the amortization of acquired technology, and referral fees. We allocate general overhead expenses to all departments based on the number of employees in each department, which we consider to be a fair and representative means of allocation. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solution to the extent those costs are considered to be recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for a particular implementation once revenue recognition commences, and we amortize those implementation costs over the expected period of customer benefit, which has been determined to be the estimated life of the technology. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We capitalize certain software development costs related to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions. The costs related to software development that are incurred between reaching technological feasibility of a solution and the point at which the solution is ready for general release are capitalized and are included in intangible assets, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. During the year ended December 31, 2017, all of the products related to capitalized software development costs reached general release, and we have commenced amortization of these costs. Capitalized software development costs are computed on an individual product basis and products available for market are amortized to cost of revenues over the products' estimated economic lives. We intend to continue to increase our investments in our implementation and customer support teams and technology infrastructure to serve our customers and support our growth. We expect cost of revenues to continue to grow in absolute dollars as we grow our business but to fluctuate as a percentage of revenues based principally on the level and timing of implementation and support activities and other related costs. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. They also include costs related to our acquisitions and the resulting amortization of acquired intangible assets from those acquisitions. We intend to continue to hire new employees and make other investments to support our anticipated growth. As a result, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of revenues over the long term as we grow our business. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including commissions, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to advertising, lead generation, promotional event programs, corporate communications, travel and allocated overhead. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues will change in any given period based on several factors including the addition of newly-hired sales professionals, the number and timing of newly-installed customers and the amount of sales commissions expense amortized related to those customers. Commissions are generally capitalized and then amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Sales and marketing expenses are also impacted by the timing of significant marketing programs such as our annual user conference which we typically hold during the second quarter. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing by increasing our number of sales and marketing personnel and expanding our sales and marketing activities. We believe these investments will help us build brand awareness, add new customers and expand sales to our existing customers as they continue to buy more solutions from us, the number of End Users utilizing our solutions grows and those End Users increase the number of transactions they perform on our solutions. Research and Development We believe that continuing to improve and enhance our solutions is essential to maintaining our reputation for innovation and growing our customer base and revenues. Research and development expenses include salaries and personnel-related costs, including benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, software development costs, allocated overhead and other related expenses incurred in developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions. Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. Certain research and development costs that are related to our software development, which include salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits and bonuses attributed to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions, are capitalized and are included in intangible assets, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. 35 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, legal and human resources employees. General and administrative expenses also include consulting and professional fees, insurance and travel. We expect to continue to incur incremental expenses associated with the growth of our business and to meet increased compliance requirements associated with operating as a public company. These expenses include costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations governing public companies, increased costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance and investor relations activities. Acquisition Related Costs Acquisition related costs include compensation expenses related to milestone provisions and retention agreements with certain former shareholders and employees of acquired businesses which are recognized as earned, changes in fair value of the contingent consideration related to potential acquisition earnout payments and various legal and professional service expenses incurred in connection with the acquisitions, which were recognized when incurred. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Amortization of acquired intangibles represent the amortization of intangibles recorded in connection with our business acquisitions which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and expense and loss on disposal of long-lived assets. We earn interest income on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes issued in February 2018, or Convertible Notes, and fees and interest associated with the letter of credit issued to our landlord for the security deposit for our corporate headquarters. Benefit from Income Taxes As a result of our current net operating loss position, current income tax expenses and benefits consist primarily of state income taxes, deferred income tax expenses relating to the tax amortization of recently acquired goodwill, income tax expense from foreign operations, and the release of valuation allowance resulting in deferred tax benefits relating to acquired net deferred tax liabilities. 36 Table of Contents Results of Operations Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss Data The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Revenues $ 71,296 $ 54,808 Cost of revenues (1)(2) 37,184 26,977 Gross profit 34,112 27,831 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (2) 15,805 10,966 Research and development (2) 17,657 11,157 General and administrative (2) 13,860 10,296 Acquisition related costs 2,718 256 Amortization of acquired intangibles 1,215 368 Total operating expenses 51,255 33,043 Loss from operations (17,143 ) (5,212 ) Total other income (expense), net (2,207 ) (1,023 ) Loss before income taxes (19,350 ) (6,235 ) Benefit from income taxes 39 187 Net loss $ (19,311 ) $ (6,048 ) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $1.6 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (2) Includes stock-based compensation expenses as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Cost of revenues $ 1,548 $ 1,015 Sales and marketing 1,806 1,226 Research and development 2,012 1,356 General and administrative 3,530 2,498 Total stock-based compensation expenses $ 8,896 $ 6,095 37 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenues for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues (1)(2) 52.2 49.2 Gross profit 47.8 50.8 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (2) 22.2 20.0 Research and development (2) 24.8 20.4 General and administrative (2) 19.4 18.8 Acquisition related costs 3.8 0.5 Amortization of acquired intangibles 1.7 0.7 Total operating expenses 71.9 60.3 Loss from operations (24.0 ) (9.5 ) Total other income (expense), net (3.1 ) (1.9 ) Loss before income taxes (27.1 ) (11.4 ) Benefit from income taxes 0.1 0.3 Net loss (27.0 )% (11.0 )% ______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of 2.3% and 1.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. (2) Includes stock-based compensation expenses as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Cost of revenues 2.2 % 1.9 % Sales and marketing 2.5 2.2 Research and development 2.8 2.5 General and administrative 5.0 4.6 Total stock-based compensation expenses 12.5 % 11.1 % Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the line items in the tables above. 38 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenues The following table presents our revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) Revenues $ 71,296 $ 54,808 $ 16,488 30.1 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . Revenues increased by $16.5 million , or 30.1% , from $54.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $71.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $10.1 million increase from the sale of additional solutions to new and existing customers and the growth in new Registered Users from new and existing customers. In addition, $3.5 million of the increase was generated from the businesses acquired in the fourth quarter of 2018 and $2.9 million of the increase was generated from an increase in the number of transactions processed using our solutions. Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) Cost of revenues $ 37,184 $ 26,977 $ 10,207 37.8 % Percentage of revenues 52.2 % 49.2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . Cost of revenues increased by $10.2 million , or 37.8% , from $27.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $37.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . This increase was attributable to a $4.1 million increase in personnel costs due to an increase in the number of personnel who provide implementation and customer support and maintain our data centers and other technical infrastructure, which included a $2.6 million increase in personnel costs from the businesses acquired in the fourth quarter of 2018, and a $0.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to cost of revenues for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the increased fair value of the awards granted due to the increase in our stock price. In addition, there was a $2.7 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs incurred as a result of the increase in Registered Users from existing and new customers, as well as implementation and support personnel expenses that are reimbursable from our customers, a $1.8 million increase in co-location facility costs and depreciation for our data center assets resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support our growing customer base, a $0.7 million increase in amortization of acquired customer technology resulting from the businesses acquired in 2018, a $0.6 million increase in facilities, information technology, and other overhead costs which were allocated to our implementation and support departments, and a $0.3 million increase in travel related and other discretionary expenses. We defer certain payroll costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are considered to be recoverable from future revenues. However, a substantial portion of our implementation costs are not eligible for deferral and, as a result, are expensed in the period incurred. Costs related to implementations that have been deferred are amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Additionally, we invest in personnel, business processes and systems infrastructure to standardize our business processes and drive future efficiency in our implementations, customer support and data center operations. We expect these investments will increase cost of revenues in absolute dollars as we continue to make investments in capacity and process improvement. 39 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following tables present our operating expenses for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) Sales and marketing $ 15,805 $ 10,966 $ 4,839 44.1 % Percentage of revenues 22.2 % 20.0 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . Sales and marketing expenses increased by $4.8 million , or 44.1% , from $11.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $15.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . This increase was primarily attributable to a $3.9 million increase in personnel costs due to the growth of our sales and marketing organizations, which included a $2.5 million increase in personnel costs from the businesses acquired in the fourth quarter of 2018, and a $0.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to sales and marketing expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the increased fair value of the awards granted due to the increase in our stock price. In addition, there was a $0.6 million increase in travel related expenses, and a $0.4 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our sales and marketing departments. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we add personnel to support our revenue growth and as we increase discretionary marketing spend to attract new customers, retain and grow existing customers and drive brand awareness. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over time as our revenues grow. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) Research and development $ 17,657 $ 11,157 $ 6,500 58.3 % Percentage of revenues 24.8 % 20.4 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . Research and development expenses increased by $6.5 million , or 58.3% , from $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $17.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . This increase was primarily attributable to a $5.7 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions, which included a $2.0 million increase in personnel costs from the businesses acquired in the fourth quarter of 2018, and a $0.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to research and development expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the increased fair value of the awards granted due to the increase in our stock price. In addition, there was a $0.6 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our research and development departments, and a $0.2 million increase in travel related expenses. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to support and expand our platform and enhance our existing solutions. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) General and administrative $ 13,860 $ 10,296 $ 3,564 34.6 % Percentage of revenues 19.4 % 18.8 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . General and administrative expenses increased by $3.6 million , or 34.6% , from $10.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $13.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a 40 Table of Contents $3.0 million increase in personnel costs to support the growth of our business, which included a $1.0 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to general and administrative expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the increased fair value of the awards granted due to the increase in our stock price, and a $0.7 million increase in personnel costs from the businesses acquired in the fourth quarter of 2018. In addition, there was a $0.3 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our general and administrative departments, and a $0.2 million increase in travel related expenses. General and administrative expenses include costs to comply with regulations governing public companies, costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance, investor relations activities and costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX. We anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to incur both increased external audit fees as well as additional spending to ensure continued regulatory and SOX compliance. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over time as our revenues grow. Acquisition Related Costs Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) Acquisition related costs $ 2,718 $ 256 $ 2,462 961.7 % Percentage of revenues 3.8 % 0.5 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . Acquisition related costs increased by $2.5 million , or 961.7% , from $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 included a $2.4 million increase for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Cloud Lending which was consummated on October 15, 2018 and $0.3 million of compensation expense related to the retention bonuses for employees of companies acquired in 2018 while the expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was comprised solely of compensation expense related to the retention bonuses for employees of companies acquired in 2015. The final retention bonuses related to the companies acquired in 2015 were paid out in the third quarter of 2018. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 1,215 $ 368 $ 847 230.2 % Percentage of revenues 1.7 % 0.7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . Amortization of acquired intangibles increased by $0.8 million , or 230.2% , from $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as a result of the intangibles acquired in the Cloud Lending and Gro acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2018. The acquired intangible assets are also related to our asset purchase in 2017 and our business combinations in 2015. These amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ (%) Total other income (expense), net $ (2,207 ) $ (1,023 ) $ (1,184 ) (115.7 )% Percentage of revenues (3.1 )% (1.9 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 . Total other income (expense), net decreased by $1.2 million from expense of $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to an expense of $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 consists of $3.0 million of interest expense from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our Convertible Notes issued in February 2018, partially offset by $0.8 million of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents, and investments. 41 Table of Contents Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our overall operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of investments in growing our business. The timing of our implementation activities and corresponding revenues from new customers are subject to fluctuation based on the timing of our sales. Sales may tend to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in subsequent quarters but any resulting impact on our results of operation has been difficult to measure due to the timing of our implementations and overall growth in our business. The timing of our implementations also varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of engagement between our customers and their End Users. As a result, we and our customers are very deliberate and careful in our implementation activities to help ensure a successful roll-out of the solutions to End Users and increase the registration of new End Users. Unusually long or short implementations, for even a small number of customers, may result in short-term quarterly variability in our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity We have financed our operations primarily through the proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering in March 2014, follow-on offerings, cash flows from operations and our February 2018 Convertible Note financing. At March 31, 2019 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and investments of $164.5 million . Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (10,886 ) $ (7,103 ) Investing activities 9,659 (2,645 ) Financing activities 3,428 207,198 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 2,201 $ 197,450 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is primarily influenced by the amount and timing of customer receipts and vendor payments, fair value re-measurement related to contingent earnout payment liabilities and by the amount of cash we invest in personnel and infrastructure to support the anticipated growth of our business and increase in the number of installed customers. 42 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , our net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities were $10.9 million , which consisted of a net loss of $19.3 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $10.7 million , partially offset by non-cash adjustments of $19.1 million . Cash outflows were the result of a $9.1 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period, a $3.0 million decrease in accrued liabilities driven primarily by the payment of annual bonuses during the first quarter, a $2.4 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to various prepaid expenses, a $1.7 million decrease in other long-term liabilities, and a $1.0 million increase in contract assets. Cash inflows were the result of a $3.9 million increase in deferred revenue due to increased payments and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments, a $1.4 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base, and a $1.2 million decrease in other long-term assets. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $9.2 million of stock-based compensation expense, $5.8 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, $2.5 million in amortization of the Convertible Notes discount and related debt issuance costs, and $1.5 million of amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities were $7.1 million, which consisted of a net loss of $6.0 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $14.6 million, partially offset by non-cash adjustments of $13.5 million. Cash outflows were the result of a $4.7 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period, a $4.3 million decrease in accrued liabilities mainly from the payment of annual bonuses, a $3.7 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and customer payments, a $1.7 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to various prepaid expenses, a $1.1 million decrease in accounts payable due to timing of payments, $0.8 million in contract assets added as a result of the adoption of Topic 606, and a $0.5 million net increase in other long-term assets and long-term liabilities. Cash inflows were the result of a $2.3 million increase in deferred revenue due to payments and deposits received from customers prior to the delivery of the related performance obligations. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $6.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $3.9 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, $2.2 million of amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, $1.2 million in amortization of Convertible Notes discount and related debt issuance costs, and $0.1 million of other non-cash items. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments, our recent acquisitions, and purchases of property and equipment to support our growth. Purchases of property and equipment may vary period-to-period due to the timing of the expansion of our operations, data center and other technical infrastructure. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash provided by investing activities was $9.7 million , consisting primarily of $24.9 million from maturities of investments, partially offset by $9.7 million for the purchase of investments, and $5.5 million for the purchase of property and equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in investing activities was $2.6 million, consisting primarily of $5.4 million for the purchase of property and equipment and $0.2 million for release of the hold back from the asset purchase in 2017, partially offset by $2.9 million from maturities of investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our recent financing activities have consisted primarily of our February 2018 Convertible Note financing, net proceeds from exercises of options to purchase our common stock, as well as payments on financing obligations. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash provided by financing activities of $3.4 million was related to cash received from the exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $207.2 million, which was primarily due to the issuance of $223.7 million principal amount of the Convertible Notes, net of issuance costs, and the related sale of warrants for $22.4 million, offset by the purchase of bond hedges for $41.7 million. In addition, cash flows from financing activities included $2.8 million of cash received from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , and subsequent to March 31, 2019 , there were no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments disclosures as set forth under the caption, "Contractual Obligations and 43 Table of Contents Commitments" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2019. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments at March 31, 2019 (in thousands): Payment due by period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total Convertible Notes, including interest $ 1,725 $ 5,175 $ 230,863 $ $ 237,763 Operating lease obligations 7,151 11,199 9,027 15,822 43,199 Purchase commitments 14,155 21,883 14,306 50,344 $ 23,031 $ 38,257 $ 254,196 $ 15,822 $ 331,306 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K, such as the use of unconsolidated subsidiaries, structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)," to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, "Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases)," which provides narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard. In July 2018, the FASB also issued ASU 2018-11, "Targeted Improvements," which provides the option to adopt ASU No. 2016-02 retrospectively for each prior period presented or as of the adoption date with a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. In January 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-01, "Leases (Topic 842): Codification Improvements" to clarify the required disclosures of ASU No. 2016-02 and explicitly exempts entities from disclosing the effect of the change for the interim period. We adopted the standard effective January 1, 2019 and we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within Topic 842, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical lease classification and the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components of an agreement. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of lease assets and lease liabilities of approximately $27.0 million and $36.2 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019. The difference between the lease assets and lease liabilities is the reclassification of deferred rent on our balance sheet at the date of adoption. The standard had no impact on our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive loss or our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326)" which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments. Credit losses on trade and other receivables, held-to-maturity debt securities , and other instruments will reflect our current estimate of the expected credit losses and will generally result in the earlier recognition of allowance for losses. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new accounting guidance and do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment" which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment by removing Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test and requires an entity to write down the carrying value of goodwill up to the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years and early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40)," which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). ASU 2018-15 will be effective beginning in our first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted. The ASU may be applied retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation 44 Table of Contents costs incurred after the date of adoption. We have elected to early adopt the ASU as of January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis. No implementation costs related to hosting arrangements were capitalized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent liabilities in our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company's critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates: Revenue recognition; Contract balances; Accounts receivable; Deferred revenues; Deferred implementation costs; Deferred solution and other costs; Stock-based compensation; Convertible senior notes; Purchase price allocation, intangible assets and goodwill; Capitalization of software development costs; Leases; Contingent consideration; and Income taxes. We have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Of those policies, we believe that the accounting policies enumerated above involve the greatest degree of complexity and exercise of judgment by our management. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies or estimates which were included in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 , which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2019. We evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions on an ongoing basis, and while we believe that our estimates, judgments and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions.