Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings, including the audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 12, 2025. In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in the sections titled "Risk Factors" and "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 12, 2025, which include a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The following discussion and analysis also includes a discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Overview We are a leading provider of digital solutions to financial institutions, financial technology companies, or FinTechs, and alternative finance companies, or Alt-FIs, seeking to incorporate banking into their customer engagement and servicing strategies. Our solutions transform the ways in which financial institutions and other financial services providers engage with End Users. Our solutions comprise a broad and deep portfolio of digital banking solutions, digital lending and relationship pricing solutions, Q2 Innovation Studio and Helix. Q2 Innovation Studio leverages Q2's open technology platform to enable a partnership ecosystem, allowing the design, development and distribution of innovative products, services, features and integrations on Q2's digital banking platform. Helix serves as a cloud-native core and banking as a service, or BaaS, solution. We purpose-build our platforms and solutions to enable success for our customers and partners by allowing them to digitize their operations and offerings, differentiate their digital brands, integrate traditional and emerging financial services and ultimately, enhance their End-User acquisition, engagement and retention and improve their operational efficiencies and profitability. Significant resources, personnel and expertise are required to effectively deliver and manage advanced digital solutions in the complex and heavily regulated financial services industry. We provide digital solutions that are designed to be highly configurable, scalable and adaptable to the specific needs of our customers. We design and develop our solutions with an open platform approach intended to provide comprehensive integration among our solution offerings and our customers' internal and third-party systems. This integrated approach allows our customers to deliver unified and robust financial experiences across digital channels. Our solutions provide our customers the flexibility to configure their digital services in a manner that is consistent with each customer's specific offerings, workflows, processes and controls. Our solutions also allow our customers to personalize the digital experiences they deliver to their End Users by extending their individual services and brand requirements across digital channels. Our solutions and our data center and cloud-based hosting infrastructure and resources are designed to comply with the stringent security and technical regulations applicable to financial institutions and financial services providers and to safeguard our customers' data and that of their End Users. Founded over 21 years ago, Q2 began by providing digital banking solutions to domestic regional and community financial institutions, or RCFIs. We have rapidly grown since then through a combination of innovation, broad market acceptance of our solutions, strategic investments and acquisitions. Our expanded collection of solutions now spans digital banking, digital lending and relationship pricing, regulatory and compliance, risk and fraud, account switching, data-driven sales enablement, spending insights and portfolio management, and also includes our open platform solutions as well as our core and BaaS offerings. We serve account holders and borrowers across retail, small to medium business, or SMBs and commercial segments. While we continue to generate a substantial majority of our revenue from our digital banking platform, we are actively leveraging our broader product portfolio and deep domain expertise to expand our market presence. This strategy includes seeking to further penetrate the digital banking market and drive significant growth across our diverse customer base in the broader financial services sector, while opening up new and meaningful expansion opportunities for our business. 25 Table of Contents The financial services industry is experiencing significant transformation driven by the growing demand within financial institutions to digitize their operations and offerings, as well as the rise of FinTechs and Alt-FIs, which are reshaping End-User expectations for more innovative and engaging digital financial experiences. These shifts are leading to new roles and interdependencies among financial institutions, FinTechs and Alt-FIs, necessitating new technology, partnerships, and business models. We believe that lasting value creation in financial services will be achieved by those companies that are capable of supporting and embracing these market dynamics. We have developed a comprehensive suite of offerings to accelerate and optimize this transformation for our customers, ranging from digitizing entire banks to facilitating partnerships between financial institutions, FinTechs and Alt-FIs. We offer our solutions to most of our customers using a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model under which our customers pay subscription fees for the use of our solutions. Our digital banking platform customers have numerous End Users, and those End Users can represent one or more account holders registered to use one or more of our solutions on our digital banking platform. We generally price our digital banking platform solutions based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers and the number of Registered Users, as defined in "Key Operating Measures"below, or commercial account holders utilizing our solutions. We generally earn additional revenues from our digital banking platform customers based on the number of End Users on our solutions, the number of transactions that End Users perform on our solutions and the excess number of users and transactions above what is included in our standard subscription fee. As a result, our revenues from digital banking platform customers grow as our customers buy more solutions from us and increase the number of End Users utilizing our solutions and as those users increase their number of transactions on our solutions. The structure and terms of our digital lending and relationship pricing arrangements vary but generally are also sold on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. The structure and terms of our Helix arrangements with FinTechs vary but typically involve relatively lower contracted minimum revenues and instead emphasize usage-based revenue, with such revenue recognized as it is incurred. We believe we have the opportunity to continue to grow our business and that the investments we are making are positioning us to continue to realize revenue growth and improve our operating efficiencies. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute dollar basis, but the timing and amount of these investments will vary based on the rate at which we expect to add new customers, the implementation and support needs of our customers, our software development plans, our technology and physical infrastructure requirements and the internal needs of our organization. Many of these investments will occur in advance of any associated benefit. If we are successful in growing our revenues by selling additional innovative solutions to existing customers and creating deeper End-User engagement, we anticipate that greater economies of scale and increased operating leverage will improve our margins over the long term. We primarily sell our solutions through our direct sales organization. While the financial institutions market is well-defined due to the regulatory classifications of those financial institutions, markets for FinTechs and Alt-FIs are broader and more difficult to define due to the changing number of providers in each market. Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in additional sales representatives to identify and address opportunities in the financial institution, FinTech and Alt-FI markets across the U.S. and internationally and to increase our number of sales support and marketing personnel, as well as our investment in marketing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our solutions and generate new customer opportunities. We have continuously invested in expanding and improving our digital banking platform since we introduced it in 2005. We intend to continue investing organically and to selectively pursue acquisitions of and strategic investments in technologies that will strengthen and expand the features and functionality of our solutions and provide access to new customers and markets. We have also acquired or developed new solutions and additional functionality that serve a broader range of needs of financial institutions as well as the needs of FinTechs and Alt-FIs. Our portfolio of digital solutions includes a comprehensive suite of offerings for retail, SMB and commercial banking, onboarding, regulatory and compliance, risk and fraud, digital lending and relationship pricing, open platform solutions, BaaS, account switching and data-driven sales enablement, spending insights and portfolio management solutions, among others. We believe our portfolio, which reflects years of strategic development and innovation, affords us a distinct competitive advantage across multiple market segments. Additionally, Q2 Innovation Studio, an API-based and SDK-based open technology platform, allows our financial institution customers and other partners to develop unique extensions of and integrations to our digital banking platform, allowing financial institutions to quickly and easily deploy customized experiences and the latest financial services expected by End Users. 26 Table of Contents We believe that financial services providers are best served by a broad portfolio of digital solutions offering rapid, flexible and comprehensive integration with internal and third-party solutions enabling them to deliver modern, intuitive, advanced and regulatory-compliant digital solutions. We also believe our unique position in the market stems from the breadth and depth of our solution offerings and customer base, our open and flexible platform approach, our position as a leading provider of digital banking solutions to a large network of financial institutions, and our expertise in delivering new, advanced, innovative and regulatory-compliant digital solutions. These strengths allow us to address the evolving needs and challenges within the financial services industry, as we continually innovate and adapt our offerings to meet the changing demands of our customers and their End Users. We intend to continue to make investments in technology innovation and software development to enhance our existing solutions and platforms while expanding our product portfolio. As our business grows, we intend to continue to invest in and grow our services and delivery organization to support our customers' needs, help them through their digital transformation, deliver our solutions in a timely and effective manner and maintain our strong reputation. We believe that delivery of consistent, high-quality customer support is a significant driver of purchasing and renewal decisions of our prospects and customers. To develop and maintain a reputation for high-quality service, we seek to build deep relationships with our customers through our customer service organization, which we staff with personnel who are motivated by our common mission of using technology to help our customers succeed and who are knowledgeable with respect to the regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry. Recent Events The imposition by the United States of additional tariffs on a broad range of imports from multiple countries and uncertainty regarding the ultimate effectiveness, timing and extent of certain of such tariffs, along with retaliatory tariffs, and the possibility of additional retaliatory tariffs, being imposed by foreign countries, has introduced uncertainty into the global trade environment. Although our operations do not involve the direct purchase of significant volumes of goods or raw materials from outside the United States, and we do not manufacture or inventory physical products, these trade measures may indirectly affect our business. For example, continued or escalating tariffs may contribute to inflationary pressures or impact the cost structures of our third-party service providers, cloud infrastructure partners or customers, which could affect demand for our solutions and services or increase our cost-of-service delivery over time. Additionally, recent changes in the regulatory landscape for financial services and new regulatory developments, including, for example, the GENIUS Act signed into law on July 18, 2025, may impact our prospects' and customers' operations. Financial services providers and their solutions are subject to extensive and complex regulations and oversight by federal, state and other regulatory authorities. New regulations or changes to existing regulations may create uncertainty or additional cost for financial services providers as they adjust their operations and compliance efforts. Changes to regulations or new regulations may also encourage the adoption and prevalence of new financial products and services from non-depository institutions, such as cryptocurrencies or stablecoin, which may compete with their more traditional financial services. Continued heightened geopolitical instability, including acts of war or military conflict, has created additional uncertainty in the marketplace. Heightened geopolitical tensions increase the risks associated with cybersecurity threats, supply chain disruptions, payment delays and failures to settle financial transactions. While we do not have significant operations in directly affected areas, we are unable to predict the impact of geopolitical factors on the global economy or on our financial condition or results of operations. To date, these developments have not had a material impact on our operations or financial performance. However, given the potential for broader macroeconomic implications and downstream effects on the financial services industry, we continue to monitor the evolving trade landscape, including any additional tariffs or retaliatory measures that may arise, regulatory changes and geopolitical tensions on the global economy. The duration and severity of these and other economic conditions and their long-term effects on us and our customers remain uncertain and difficult to predict. Refer to "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above for further discussion of the impact and possible future impacts of general economic uncertainty and the current challenges facing the financial services industry on our business. 27 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Program In October 2025, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program that authorizes us to repurchase up to $150.0 million, or the Repurchase Program, of our common stock. The Repurchase Program permits shares of common stock to be repurchased from time to time at management's discretion, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions, block trades or pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The timing and number of shares of common stock repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the market price of our common stock, general business and market conditions, alternative investment opportunities and funding considerations. The Repurchase Program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number or dollar amount of shares and has no expiration date. The Repurchase Program may be modified, suspended or terminated by our Board of Directors at any time. Key Operating Measures In addition to the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, measures described below in "Components of Operating Results," we monitor the following operating measures to evaluate growth trends, plan investments and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Installed Customers We define Installed Customers as the number of customers live on our digital banking platform. The average size of our Installed Customers, measured in both Registered Users per Installed Customer and revenues per Installed Customer, has increased over time as our existing Installed Customers continue to add Registered Users and commercial account holders, buy more solutions from us, and as we add larger financial institutions to our Installed Customer base. The net rate at which we add Installed Customers varies based on our implementation capacity, the size and unique needs of our customers, the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions and customer attrition, including as a result of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions. We had 460, 450 and 444 Installed Customers on our digital banking platform as of December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Registered Users We define a Registered User as an individual related to an account holder of an Installed Customer on our consumer digital banking platform who has registered to use one or more of our digital banking solutions and has current access to use those solutions as of the last day of the reporting period presented. Our average number of Registered Users per Installed Customer grows as our existing digital banking platform customers add more Registered Users and as we add larger financial institutions to our Installed Customer base. We anticipate that over time the number of Registered Users will grow at a faster rate than our number of Installed Customers but may fluctuate from period to period. We add new Registered Users through both organic and inorganic growth from existing customers and from the addition of End Users from new Installed Customers. Our Installed Customers had approximately 24.7 million, 22.0 million and 21.1 million Registered Users as of December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Registered Users as of September 30, 2025 were 27.0 million compared to 24.4 million as of September 30, 2024. Net Revenue Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our customers and expand their use of our products and services over time is an indicator of the stability of our revenue base and the long-term value of our customer relationships. One of the ways we assess our performance in this area is through our net revenue retention rate and subscription net revenue retention rate, or collectively our net revenue retention rates. We calculate our net revenue retention rate as the total revenues in a calendar year, excluding any revenues from acquired customers during such year, from customers who were implemented on any of our solutions as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of the total revenues during the prior year from the same group of customers. Similarly, we calculate our subscription net revenue retention rate as total subscription revenues in a calendar year from customers who were implemented on any of our solutions as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of total subscription revenues for the prior year from the same group of customers. Our net revenue retention rates provide insight into the impact on current year revenues of: the number of new customers implemented on any of our solutions during the prior year; the timing of our implementation of those new customers in the prior year; growth in the number of End Users on such solutions and changes in their usage of such solutions; and sales of new products and services to our existing customers during the current year, excluding any products or services resulting from businesses acquired during such year and customer attrition. The most significant drivers of changes in our net revenue retention rates each year have historically been the number of new customers in the prior year and the timing of our implementation of those new customers. The timing of our implementation of new customers in the prior year is significant because we do not start recognizing revenues from new customers until they are implemented. As an example, if implementations are weighted more heavily in the first or second half of the prior year, both our net revenue retention rate and subscription net revenue retention rate will be lower or higher, 28 Table of Contents respectively, in the subsequent year. Our use of net revenue retention rate and subscription net revenue retention rate have limitations as analytical tools, and investors should not consider them in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate net revenue retention rates differently, which reduces their usefulness as a comparative measure. Our net revenue retention rate was 109%, 108% and 110% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and our subscription net revenue retention rate was 114%, 112% and 115% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Annualized Recurring Revenue We believe Subscription Annual Recurring Revenue, or Subscription ARR, and Total Annual Recurring Revenue, or Total ARR, provide important information about our future revenue potential and our ability to maintain and expand our relationship with existing clients. We calculate Subscription ARR as the annualized value of all recurring subscription revenue recognized in the last month of the reporting period, with the exception of variable revenue in excess of contracted amounts for which we instead take the average monthly run rate of the trailing three months within that reporting period. Our Subscription ARR also includes the contracted minimum subscription amounts associated with all contracts in place at the end of the quarter for which revenue recognition has not yet commenced. Subscription revenues are defined within "Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates" in our Form 10-K. We calculate Total ARR as the annualized value of all recurring revenue recognized in the last month of the reporting period, with the exception of variable revenue in excess of contracted amounts for which we instead take the average monthly run rate of the trailing three months within that reporting period. Our Total ARR also includes the contracted minimums associated with all contracts in place at the end of the quarter for which revenue recognition has not yet commenced, and revenue generated from Integrated Services. Integrated Services revenue is generated from select established customer relationships where we have engaged with the customer for more tailored, premium professional services resulting in a deeper and ongoing level of engagement with them, which we deem to be recurring in nature. Total ARR does not include revenue from professional services or other sources of revenue that are not deemed to be recurring in nature. Subscription and Total ARR are not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. Subscription and Total ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as Subscription and Total ARR are operating metrics and are not intended to be combined with or replace these items. Our use of Subscription and Total ARR has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate Subscription ARR and Total ARR differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Our Subscription ARR was $681.9 million, $593.9 million and $500.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Subscription ARR as of September 30, 2025 was $745.4 million compared to $654.6 million as of September 30, 2024. Our Total ARR was $824.2 million, $734.8 million and $655.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Total ARR as of September 30, 2025 was $888.4 million compared to $796.4 million as of September 30, 2024. Revenue Churn We utilize revenue churn to monitor the satisfaction of our customers and evaluate the effectiveness of our business solutions and strategies. We define revenue churn as the amount of any monthly recurring revenue losses due to customer cancellations and downgrades, net of upgrades and replacements of existing solutions, during a year, divided by our monthly recurring revenue at the end of the prior year. Cancellations refer to customers that have either stopped using our services completely or remained a customer but terminated a particular service. Downgrades are a result of customers taking less of a particular service or renewing their contract for identical services at a lower price. We had annual revenue churn of 4.4%, 6.1% and 6.3% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our use of revenue churn has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate revenue churn differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures to clarify and enhance our understanding, and aid in the period-to-period comparison, of our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide supplemental information that is meaningful when assessing our operating performance because they exclude the impact of certain categories that our management and board of directors do not consider part of core operating results when assessing our operational performance, allocating resources, preparing annual budgets and determining compensation. Accordingly, these non-GAAP financial measures may provide insight to investors into the motivation and decision-making of management in operating the business. Set forth in the tables below are the corresponding GAAP financial measures for each non-GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure included below. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should 29 Table of Contents not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, their most comparable GAAP measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in their financing and accounting methods, the book value of their assets, their capital structures, the method by which their assets were acquired and the manner in which they define non-GAAP measures. Items such as the deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of acquired intangible assets, lease and other restructuring charges and non-recurring legal settlements can have a material impact on our GAAP financial results. Beginning in the year ended December 31, 2024, because there was no impact of purchase accounting on revenue, our non-GAAP total revenue is now equivalent to our GAAP total revenue, and we have therefore not reported non-GAAP total revenue. Non-GAAP Operating Income We provide non-GAAP operating income that excludes such items as deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of acquired intangible assets, lease and other restructuring charges and non-recurring legal settlements. There was no deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting or transaction-related costs in either of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 or 2024. We believe excluding these items is useful for the following reasons: Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes the deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting. We believe that the exclusion of deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations. Amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to purchased technology and intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. We believe that eliminating these expenses from our non-GAAP measures is useful to investors, because the amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets can be inconsistent in amount and frequency and significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisition transactions, which also vary in frequency from period to period. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period, both with and without such expenses. Stock-based compensation. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to stock-based compensation. We believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense provides for a better comparison of our operating results to prior periods and to our peer companies as the calculations of stock-based compensation vary from period to period and company to company due to different valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation, we exclude these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. Transaction-related costs. We exclude certain expense items resulting from our evaluation and completion of merger and acquisition and divestiture opportunities, such as related legal, accounting and consulting fees and retention expense. We consider these adjustments, to some extent, to be unpredictable and dependent on a significant number of factors that are outside of our control. Furthermore, transaction-related activities result in operating expenses that would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our organic business operations. We believe that providing these non-GAAP measures that exclude transaction-related costs allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to our historical results and results of less acquisitive peer companies, both with and without such adjustments. Lease and other restructuring charges. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes restructuring charges related to the estimated costs of exiting and terminating facility lease commitments, partially offset by anticipated sublease income, and any related impairments of the right of use assets as they relate to corporate restructuring and exit activities. It also excludes severance cash payouts and other related compensation associated with restructuring, departure of executive officers or eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. These charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in the future, we believe that eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. 30 Table of Contents Non-recurring legal settlements. We exclude certain legal settlement costs that we deem not to be in the ordinary course of our business operations ("non-recurring legal settlements"). In March 2025, the Company entered into a settlement agreement to settle a dispute with a former commercial real estate broker related to commissions for the lease of its current headquarters, pursuant to which the Company paid $1.8 million to settle the matter in full. We believe excluding this amount from our non-GAAP financial measures provides meaningful insight and allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to our historical results and results to peer companies, both with and without such adjustments. The following table presents a reconciliation of GAAP operating income (loss) to non-GAAP operating income for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 GAAP operating income (loss) $ 11,004 $ (12,800) $ 23,033 $ (40,688) Stock-based compensation 23,257 24,324 66,767 69,456 Amortization of acquired technology 5,503 5,504 16,512 16,512 Amortization of acquired intangibles 4,776 93 14,392 Lease and other restructuring charges 946 3,520 3,008 6,208 Non-recurring legal settlements 1,750 Non-GAAP operating income $ 40,710 $ 25,324 $ 111,163 $ 65,880 Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) before stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, depreciation, amortization, lease and other restructuring charges, non-recurring legal settlements, provision for income taxes and interest and other (income) expense, net. There were no transaction-related costs in either of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 or 2024. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results for the following reasons: adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a company's operating performance with and without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing, capital structures and the method by which assets were acquired; our management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP financial measures for planning purposes, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, as a measure of our operating performance, to assess the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance; adjusted EBITDA provides more consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our operations and also facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results; and our investor and analyst presentations include adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our overall operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The use of adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool has limitations such as: depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, and the assets being depreciated or amortized will often have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA may not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that could reduce cash available for use; and other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. 31 Table of Contents Because of these and other limitations, investors and others should consider adjusted EBITDA together with our GAAP financial measures including cash flow from operations and net income (loss). The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Reconciliation of net income (loss) to adjusted EBITDA: Net income (loss) $ 15,048 $ (11,797) $ 31,565 $ (38,700) Stock-based compensation 23,257 24,324 66,767 69,456 Depreciation and amortization 13,613 17,651 40,888 52,819 Lease and other restructuring charges 946 3,520 3,008 6,208 Non-recurring legal settlements 1,750 Provision for income taxes 160 2,260 2,380 5,904 Interest and other income, net (4,206) (3,348) (11,032) (7,973) Adjusted EBITDA $ 48,818 $ 32,610 $ 135,326 $ 87,714 Components of Operating Results Revenues Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in either our third-party data centers or with third-party public cloud service providers, transactional revenue from bill-pay solutions and remote deposit products, revenues for professional services and implementation services related to our solutions and certain third-party related pass-through fees. We recognize the corresponding revenues over time on a ratable basis over the customer agreement term or as incurred based on the nature of the revenue. A small portion of our revenues are derived from customers which host and manage our solutions on-premises or in third-party data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. For these customers, we recognize software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license, which generally occurs at the start of each license term, and recognize the remaining arrangement consideration for maintenance revenue over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Subscription fees are based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the number of End Users using the solutions and other usage fees those users generate by using our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. Subscription fees are billed monthly, quarterly or annually and are recognized monthly over the term of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. The structure and terms of our digital lending and relationship pricing arrangements vary but generally are also sold on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. The structure and terms of our Helix arrangements with FinTechs vary but typically involve relatively lower contracted minimum revenues and instead emphasize usage-based revenue, with such revenue recognized as it is incurred. We begin recognizing subscription fees when the control of the service transfers to the customer, generally when the solution is implemented and made available to the customer. We recognize revenue for debit card and bill-pay related transaction services when End Users utilize debit card services integrated within our Helix and other payment-service solutions in the month incurred based on actual or estimated transactions. The timing of our implementations varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We typically recognize any related implementation services revenues ratably over the initial customer agreement term beginning on the date we commence recognizing subscription fees. Contract asset balances arise primarily when we provide services in advance of billing for those services. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable, and in revenues or deferred revenues, depending on when control of the service transfers to the customer. 32 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for employees providing services to our customers. This includes the costs of our personnel performing implementation, customer support, third-party data centers and customer training activities. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, the amortization of deferred solution and services costs, amortization of certain software development costs, co-location facility costs and depreciation of our data center assets, debit card related pass-through fees, third-party public cloud service providers, an allocation of general overhead costs, the amortization of acquired technology intangibles and referral fees. We allocate general overhead expenses to all departments based on the number of employees in each department, which we consider to be a fair and representative means of allocation. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for an implementation once revenue recognition commences, and we amortize those implementation costs to cost of revenues over the expected period of customer benefit, which has been determined to be the estimated life of the technology. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We capitalize certain software development costs for those employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to developing our software solutions on an individual product basis, including those related to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams, as well as third-party development costs. Software development costs are amortized to cost of revenues when products and enhancements are released or made available over the products' estimated economic lives. Operating Expenses Operating expenses primarily consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. They also include costs related to our acquisitions and the resulting amortization of acquired intangible assets from those acquisitions. In an effort to reduce certain of our personnel related expenditures and improve the scaling of expenses relative to revenue growth, we have taken measures intended to increase the cost efficiency of our global workforce structure. Over the long term, we intend to continue to hire new employees and make other investments to support our anticipated growth. As a result, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of revenues over the long term as we grow our business. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including commissions, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to advertising, lead generation, promotional events, corporate communications, travel and allocated overhead. Research and Development We believe that continuing to improve and enhance our solutions is essential to maintaining our reputation for innovation and growing our customer base and revenues. Research and development expenses include salaries and personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, software development costs, allocated overhead and other related expenses incurred in developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions. Certain research and development costs that are related to our software development, which include salaries and other personnel-related costs, comprised of employee benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses attributed to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions, are capitalized and included in intangible assets, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, compliance and security, legal, human resources employees and the majority of our executive team. General and administrative expenses also include consulting and professional fees, travel and other corporate expenses to comply with regulations governing public companies and financial institutions. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Amortization of acquired intangibles represents the amortization of intangibles recorded in connection with our business acquisitions which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. 33 Table of Contents Lease and Other Restructuring Charges Lease and other restructuring charges include costs related to the early vacating of certain facilities, any related impairment of the right of use assets and ongoing expenses of other vacated facilities, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from the associated facilities. It also includes severance cash payouts and other related compensation associated with restructuring, departure of executive officers or eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. Total Other Income, Net Total other income, net, consists primarily of interest income and expense, other non-operating income and expense, loss on disposal of long-lived assets, foreign currency translation adjustment and gain on extinguishment of debt. We earn interest income on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest from the amortization of debt issuance costs, coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes, commitment fees and interest associated with our Revolving Credit Agreement, as well as fees and interest associated with the letter of credit issued to our landlord for the security deposit for our corporate headquarters. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses and benefits consist primarily of federal, state, and international current and deferred income tax expense from global operations. On July 4, 2025, H.R. 1, the "One Big Beautiful Bill Act," was signed into law. This legislation includes several changes to federal tax law that generally allow for more favorable deductibility of certain business expenses beginning in 2025, including the restoration of immediate expensing of domestic research and development expenditures, reinstatement of 100% bonus depreciation, and more favorable rules for determining the limitation on business interest expense. These changes were reflected in the income tax provision for the three months ended September 30, 2025. 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed results of operations data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Revenues $ 201,704 $ 175,021 $ 586,587 $ 513,419 Cost of revenues(1) 92,859 85,962 272,188 255,281 Gross profit 108,845 89,059 314,399 258,138 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 26,401 25,558 79,965 78,736 Research and development 38,932 36,901 113,699 107,522 General and administrative 31,705 31,495 95,061 92,954 Amortization of acquired intangibles 4,776 93 14,392 Lease and other restructuring charges 803 3,129 2,548 5,222 Total operating expenses 97,841 101,859 291,366 298,826 Income (loss) from operations 11,004 (12,800) 23,033 (40,688) Total other income, net 4,204 3,263 10,912 7,892 Income (loss) before income taxes 15,208 (9,537) 33,945 (32,796) Provision for income taxes (160) (2,260) (2,380) (5,904) Net income (loss) $ 15,048 $ (11,797) $ 31,565 $ (38,700) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $5.5 million for each of the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, and $16.5 million for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024. 35 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenues for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues(1) 46.0 49.1 46.4 49.7 Gross profit 54.0 50.9 53.6 50.3 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 13.1 14.6 13.6 15.3 Research and development 19.3 21.1 19.4 20.9 General and administrative 15.7 18.0 16.2 18.1 Amortization of acquired intangibles 2.7 2.8 Lease and other restructuring charges 0.4 1.8 0.4 1.0 Total operating expenses 48.5 58.2 49.7 58.2 Income (loss) from operations 5.5 (7.3) 3.9 (7.9) Total other income, net 2.1 1.9 1.9 1.5 Income (loss) before income taxes 7.5 (5.4) 5.8 (6.4) Provision for income taxes (0.1) (1.3) (0.4) (1.1) Net income (loss) 7.5 % (6.7) % 5.4 % (7.5) % ______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of 2.7% and 3.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and 2.8% and 3.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the line items in the tables above. 36 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 Revenues The following table presents our revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Revenues $ 201,704 $ 175,021 $ 26,683 15.2 % $ 586,587 $ 513,419 $ 73,168 14.3 % Revenues increased by $26.7 million, or 15.2%, from $175.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $201.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $24.6 million increase in subscription revenue from the sale of additional solutions to new and existing customers and growth in expansions with existing customers, a $1.1 million increase in transactional revenue from usage of our solutions and a $1.0 million increase in services and other revenue. Revenues increased by $73.2 million, or 14.3%, from $513.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $586.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $70.9 million increase in subscription revenue from the sale of additional solutions to new and existing customers and growth in expansions with existing customers and a $2.3 million increase in transactional revenue from usage of our solutions. We believe that elevated and fluctuating interest rates have increased the importance for financial institutions to attract and retain depository relationships, which we believe has increased demand for our digital banking solutions. We have observed improved subscription bookings and associated revenue primarily from our digital banking solutions, which we believe is a result of banking conditions placing an importance on attracting and retaining deposits. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, our subscription revenue growth was 18% and 17%, respectively, as compared to the prior year period, and we expect subscription revenue will continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue. We continue to see variability in customer demand for certain discretionary elements of our solutions, including professional services. We believe these fluctuations, and the overall trending decline, are influenced by customer spending patterns and budget cycles, and expect this trend to continue until the broader economic outlook improves. Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Cost of revenues $ 92,859 $ 85,962 $ 6,897 8.0 % $ 272,188 $ 255,281 $ 16,907 6.6 % Percentage of revenues 46.0 % 49.1 % 46.4 % 49.7 % Cost of revenues increased by $6.9 million, or 8.0%, from $86.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $92.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. This increase was primarily attributable to a $5.0 million net increase in third-party public cloud service provider costs, co-location facility costs and software costs resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support growing customer activity and migration to third-party public cloud service providers, a $1.7 million increase from the amortization of capitalized software development and capitalized implementation services, a $0.8 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs and a $0.4 million increase in overhead costs and other discretionary expenses, partially offset by a $0.7 million net decrease in personnel costs, driven by decreases in stock-based compensation expense and a $0.3 million decrease as a result of higher capitalized implementation costs. 37 Table of Contents Cost of revenues increased by $16.9 million, or 6.6%, from $255.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $272.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. This increase was primarily attributable to a $9.5 million net increase in third-party public cloud service provider costs, co-location facility costs and software costs resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support growing customer activity and migration to third-party public cloud service providers, a $4.9 million increase from the amortization of capitalized software development and capitalized implementation services, a $2.9 million net increase in personnel costs, a $1.3 million increase in overhead costs and other discretionary expenses and a $0.8 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs, partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease as a result of higher capitalized implementation costs and a $0.3 million decrease in pass-through fees. We intend to continue to invest in our implementation and customer support teams and third-party partners for intellectual property and transactional processing in our solutions and technology infrastructure to standardize our business processes and drive future efficiency in our implementations, serve our customers and support our growth as we finalize the migration of a significant portion of the computing, storage and processing of our digital banking platform solutions from our third-party data centers to third-party public cloud service providers. As we continue to make these investments over the long term, we expect they will increase cost of revenues in absolute dollars as we grow our business, and we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of revenue, based on cost efficiencies realized in the business, the level and timing of implementation support activities, timing of capitalized software development costs, debit card related pass-through fees and other related costs. Operating Expenses The following tables present our operating expenses for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Sales and marketing $ 26,401 $ 25,558 $ 843 3.3 % $ 79,965 $ 78,736 $ 1,229 1.6 % Percentage of revenues 13.1 % 14.6 % 13.6 % 15.3 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $0.8 million, or 3.3%, from $25.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $26.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. This increase was primarily attributable to a $1.0 million increase in costs related to marketing events and other discretionary expenses partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in personnel costs, primarily from decreases in stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.2 million, or 1.6%, from $78.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $80.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in marketing-related, travel and other discretionary expenses. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues may change in any given period based on factors such as the addition of newly hired sales professionals, the timing of significant marketing events such as our annual in-person client conference, which we typically hold during the second quarter of each year, and the amount of sales commissions expense amortized. Commissions are generally capitalized and then amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the long term as we continue to support our revenue growth and increase marketing spend to attract new customers, retain and grow business with existing customers, build brand awareness, and as we continue to hold various experiences for our current and prospective customers. While sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue may fluctuate on a near-term basis, we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the long term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. 38 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Research and development $ 38,932 $ 36,901 $ 2,031 5.5 % $ 113,699 $ 107,522 $ 6,177 5.7 % Percentage of revenues 19.3 % 21.1 % 19.4 % 20.9 % Research and development expenses increased by $2.0 million, or 5.5%, from $36.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $38.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. This increase was primarily attributable to a $0.6 million increase in travel-related and other discretionary expenses, a $0.4 million increase from lower capitalization of software development and implementation services costs, a $0.4 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions and a $0.4 million increase due to an impairment loss related to capitalized software development costs from certain software assets that are no longer expected to be recoverable. Research and development expenses increased by $6.2 million, or 5.7%, from $107.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $113.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. This increasewas primarily attributable to a $2.3 million increase from lower capitalization of software development and implementation services costs, a $2.2 million increase in travel-related and other discretionary expenses, a $1.2 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions and a $0.4 million increase due to an impairment loss related to capitalized software development costs from certain software assets that are no longer expected to be recoverable. We intend to continue our investments in our software development teams and the associated technology in order to serve our customers and support our growth. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to support and expand our platform and enhance our existing solutions, as we believe existing customers will have an increased focus on maintaining and improving their digital offerings. While research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue may fluctuate on a near-term basis, we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the long term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) General and administrative $ 31,705 $ 31,495 $ 210 0.7 % $ 95,061 $ 92,954 $ 2,107 2.3 % Percentage of revenues 15.7 % 18.0 % 16.2 % 18.1 % General and administrative expenses increased by $0.2 million, or 0.7%, from $31.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $31.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in other discretionary expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $2.1 million, or 2.3%, from $93.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $95.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $1.8 million non-recurring legal settlement charge related to certain litigation as discussed in Note 8 - Commitments and Contingencies and a $0.3 million net increase in software and other discretionary expenses. We expect to continue to incur incremental expenses associated with the growth of our business and compliance requirements associated with operating as a regulated, public company. Over the long term, we anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to incur both increased external audit fees as well as additional spending to ensure continued regulatory and SOX compliance. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the longer term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. 39 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ $ 4,776 $ (4,776) (100.0) % $ 93 $ 14,392 $ (14,299) (99.4) % Percentage of revenues % 2.7 % % 2.8 % Amortization of acquired intangibles decreased by $4.8 million, or 100.0%, from $4.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to zero for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and decreased by $14.3 million, or 99.4%, from $14.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. The decrease in amortization in both periods is related to acquired intangible assets that have been fully amortized. Lease and Other Restructuring Charges Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Lease and other restructuring charges $ 803 $ 3,129 $ (2,326) (74.3) % $ 2,548 $ 5,222 $ (2,674) (51.2) % Percentage of revenues 0.4 % 1.8 % 0.4 % 1.0 % Lease and other restructuring charges decreased by $2.3 million, or 74.3%, from $3.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. The decrease in lease and other restructuring charges was primarily from a $1.2 million decrease related to updated assessments and ongoing expenses of previously vacated facilities, including a $0.7 million reversal of a previously accrued lease restructuring liability which was recorded in the third quarter ended September 30, 2025. The reversal was made in conjunction with the Company's decision to reoccupy a part of a facility lease which it previously vacated for sublease. Additionally, there was a $1.1 million decrease in the current period as compared to the prior year period as a result of severance charges associated with restructuring or eliminating certain positions that were recognized in the previous period. Lease and other restructuring charges decreased by $2.7 million or 51.2%, from $5.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. The net decrease in lease and other restructuring charges was primarily from a decrease related to updated assessments and ongoing expenses of previously vacated facilities, including a $1.4 million reversal of a previously accrued lease restructuring liability which was recorded in the year-ended September 30, 2025. The reversal was made in conjunction with the Company's decision during the year to reoccupy a part of a facility lease which it previously vacated for sublease. Total Other Income, Net Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Total other income, net $ 4,204 $ 3,263 $ 941 28.8 % $ 10,912 $ 7,892 $ 3,020 38.3 % Percentage of revenues 2.1 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.5 % Total other income, net increased by $0.9 million, or 28.8%, from $3.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $4.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. The increase was primarily driven by interest income earned from increased balances in our cash, cash equivalents and investments during the current period. Total other income, net increased by $3.0 million, or 38.3%, from $7.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $10.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. The increase was primarily driven by interest income earned from increased balances in our cash, cash equivalents and investments during the current period, partially offset by expenses associated with the Company's Revolving Credit Agreement. 40 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2025 2024 $ (%) 2025 2024 $ (%) Provision for income taxes $ (160) $ (2,260) $ (2,100) (92.9) % $ (2,380) $ (5,904) $ (3,524) (59.7) % Percentage of revenues (0.1) % (1.3) % (0.4) % (1.1) % Total provision for income taxes decreased by $2.1 million, or 92.9%, from $2.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025. The decrease was primarily driven by a $1.0 million decrease in state income taxes, a $0.7 million decrease in foreign income taxes and a $0.4 million decrease in federal income taxes. Total provision for income taxes decreased by $3.5 million, or 59.7%, from $5.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $2.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. The decrease was primarily driven by a $1.5 million decrease in foreign income taxes, a $1.2 million decrease in state income taxes and a $0.8 million decrease in federal income taxes. Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our overall operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of investments to grow our business. The timing of our implementation activities and corresponding revenues from new customers are subject to fluctuations based on the timing of our sales, which has historically tended to be lower in the first half of the year. The timing of our implementations also varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. General economic conditions and other global events may impact our business and our customers' spending patterns and budget cycles, and these conditions may disrupt any seasonality trends that may otherwise typically be inherent in our historical operating results. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity As of September 30, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and investments of $568.7 million. Based upon our current levels of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations along with our other sources of liquidity, including our ability to access capital markets and available borrowings under our $125.0 million Revolving Credit Agreement, are adequate to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months, including the repayment of our 2025 Notes and 2026 Notes upon maturity. We also believe that our longer-term working capital, planned capital expenditures, and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities. However, if we determine a need for additional short-term or long-term liquidity, there is no assurance that such financing, if pursued, would be adequate or available on terms acceptable to us. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 137,765 $ 92,716 Investing activities (28,340) (14,634) Financing activities 4,218 10,506 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 96 (72) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 113,739 $ 88,516 41 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by net income (loss) less non-cash items, the amount and timing of customer receipts and vendor payments and by the amount of cash we invest in personnel and infrastructure to support the anticipated growth of our business and customer base. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, our net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities was $137.8 million, which consisted of net income of $31.6 million and non-cash adjustments of $130.1 million, partially offset by cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $23.9 million. The primary drivers of cash outflows in operating assets and liabilities were a $28.0 million cash outflow resulting from an increase in accounts receivable, primarily due to the timing of annual billings, a $26.1 million cash outflow resulting from a gross increase in deferred solution costs primarily from annual commission payments and deferred implementation costs from both new customers and existing customer expansions. Cash outflows were partially offset by a $33.9 million cash inflow resulting from an increase in deferred revenue due to the timing of annual billings and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs and amortization of debt issuance costs, partially offset by amortization of premiums and discounts on investments and deferred income taxes. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, our net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities was $92.7 million, which consisted of a net loss of $38.7 million and non-cash adjustments of $146.1 million, partially offset by cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $14.7 million. The primary drivers of cash outflows in operating assets and liabilities were a $21.9 million increase in deferred solution costs primarily from annual commission payments and deferred implementation costs from both new customers and existing customer expansions, a $14.8 million increase in accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of annual billings and a $6.6 million decrease in other long-term liabilities. Cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows resulting from a $30.5 million increase in deferred revenue due to the timing of annual billings and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, amortization of debt issuance costs, deferred income taxes and lease restructurings and impairments, partially offset by amortization of premiums and discounts on investments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments, acquisitions of businesses, costs incurred for the development of capitalized software and purchases of property and equipment to support our growth. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, our net cash used in investing activities was $28.3 million, consisting of $91.5 million for purchases of investments, $16.2 million for capitalized software development costs and $4.8 million for the purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by $84.2 million received from the maturities of investments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, our net cash used in investing activities was $14.6 million, consisting of $67.3 million for purchases of investments, $17.6 million for capitalized software development costs and $5.3 million for the purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by $75.6 million received from the maturities of investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our recent financing activities have consisted primarily of activity related to our convertible notes as well as net proceeds from exercises of stock options, contributions to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, to purchase our common stock and payments for debt issuance costs related to the Revolving Credit Agreement. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, our net cash provided by financing activities was $4.2 million, attributable to cash received from exercises of stock options and contributions to our ESPP to purchase our common stock. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, our net cash provided by financing activities was $10.5 million, primarily consisting of $11.4 million due to cash received from exercises of stock options and contributions to our ESPP to purchase our common stock, partially offset by $0.9 million for payment of debt issuance costs related to the Revolving Credit Agreement. 42 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of the 2026 Notes, 2025 Notes, non-cancelable operating leases primarily related to our facilities, minimum purchase commitments for sponsorship obligations, third-party products, co-location fees and other product costs. Our obligations under our convertible senior notes and Revolving Credit Agreement are described in Note 9 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Information regarding our non-cancellable leases, non-recurring legal settlements and other purchase commitments as of September 30, 2025 can be found in Note 7 and Note 8 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies contained in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report, regarding the impact of certain recent accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates The preparation of our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. In accordance with GAAP, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions on an ongoing basis, and while we believe that our estimates, judgments and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time. Actual results might differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under the heading "Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates" in our Form 10-K. There were no material changes to our significant accounting policies.