Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify these statements by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "can," "continue," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans," "seeks," "should," "will," "strategy," "future," "likely," or "would" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or development and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are in some cases beyond our control. All of our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks described under "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings, including the audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 , which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018. Overview We are a leading provider of secure, cloud-based digital banking solutions. We enable regional and community financial institutions, or RCFIs, to deliver a robust suite of integrated digital banking services to more effectively engage with their consumer and commercial account holders who expect to bank anytime, anywhere and on any device. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of interaction between our RCFI customers and their account holders. As such, we purpose build our solutions to deliver a compelling, consistent user experience across digital channels and drive the success of our customers by extending their local brands, enabling improved account holder retention and creating incremental sales opportunities. The effective delivery and management of secure and advanced digital banking solutions in the complex and heavily-regulated financial services industry requires significant resources, personnel and expertise. We provide digital banking solutions that are designed to be highly configurable, scalable and adaptable to the specific needs of our RCFI customers. Our solutions deliver to account holders a unified digital banking experience across online, mobile and voice channels by leveraging a common platform that integrates our solutions with each other and with our customers' other internal and third-party systems. In addition, we design our solutions and our data center infrastructure to comply with stringent security and technical regulations applicable to financial institutions and to safeguard our customers and their account holders through features such as real-time risk and fraud analytics. RCFIs have historically sought to differentiate themselves and create account holder loyalty by providing localized, in-branch banking services and serving as centers of commerce and influence in their communities. However, account holders increasingly engage with their financial services providers across digital channels rather than in physical branches, making it easier for account holders to access competitive financial services and more difficult for RCFIs to maintain account holder loyalty. Innovation in financial services technologies, the proliferation of mobile and tablet devices and evolving consumer expectations for new financial services and modern and intuitive user experiences are pressuring RCFIs to deliver advanced digital banking and other financial services to successfully compete and grow. RCFIs are increasingly considering new ways to complement their digital banking services with innovative financial services, including developing their own applications integrated with their digital banking services and partnering with financial technology companies. 29 Table of Contents In June 2017, we introduced Q2 Open, a portfolio of open API financial services which are designed to allow RCFIs, as well as others wishing to provide innovative financial services, to develop and support their own applications and financial services technologies more quickly and effectively. Q2 Open additionally provides an opportunity for our RCFI customers to partner with financial technology companies in providing innovative financial services products to meet evolving consumer expectations. We deliver our solutions to the substantial majority of our customers using a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model under which our customers pay subscription fees for the use of our solutions. A small portion of our customers host our solutions in their own data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. Our customers have numerous account holders and end users, and those account holders and end users can represent one or more registered users on our solutions. We generally price our solutions based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers and the number of registered users utilizing our solutions. We earn additional revenues based on the number of bill-pay and certain other transactions that registered users perform on our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. As a result, our revenues grow as our customers buy more solutions from us and increase the number of registered users utilizing our solutions and as those users increase their number of transactions on our solutions. We have achieved significant growth since our inception. During each of the past six years, our average number of registered users per installed customer has grown, and we have been able to sell additional solutions to existing customers. Our revenues per installed customer and per registered user vary period-to-period based on the length and timing of customer implementations, changes in the average number of registered users per customer, sales of additional solutions to existing customers, changes in the number of transactions on our solutions by registered users and variations among existing customers and new customers with respect to the mix of purchased solutions and related pricing. We believe we have a significant opportunity to continue to grow our business, and we intend to invest across our organization to increase our revenues and improve our operating efficiencies. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute dollar basis, but the timing and amount of these investments will vary based on the rate at which we expect to add new customers, the implementation and support needs of our customers, our software development plans, our technology infrastructure requirements and the internal needs of our organization. Many of these investments will occur in advance of our realizing any resultant benefit which may make it difficult to determine if we are effectively allocating our resources. If we are successful in growing our revenues by increasing the number and scope of our customer relationships, we anticipate that greater economies of scale and increased operating leverage will improve our margins over the long term. We also anticipate that increases in the number of registered users for existing customers will improve our margins. However, we do not have any control or influence over whether account holders elect to become registered users of our customers' digital banking services. We sell our solutions primarily through our professional sales organization. Our primary target market of RCFIs is well-defined as a result of applicable governmental regulations. As a result, we are able to effectively concentrate our sales and marketing efforts on these readily-identifiable financial institutions. We intend to add sales representatives for both banks and credit unions across the U.S. We also expect to increase our number of sales support and marketing personnel, as well as our investment in marketing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our solutions and generate new customer opportunities. We seek to help our customers succeed by providing advanced digital banking and financial technology solutions that allow our customers to distinguish themselves from competing financial institutions and financial technology companies, better engage with their account holders and end users, and meet evolving consumer expectations for financial services. We believe that we successfully compete in our market due to our deep domain expertise, reputation for innovation and the quality, breadth and integration of our solutions and common platform. We have made significant investments, and intend to increase investments in technology innovation and software development as we enhance our solutions and platform and increase or expand the number of solutions that we offer to RCFIs and financial technology companies and their account holders and end users. We believe that delivery of consistent, high-quality customer support is a significant driver of purchasing and renewal decisions of our prospects and customers. To develop and maintain a reputation for high-quality service, we seek to build deep relationships with our customers through our customer service organization, which we staff with personnel who are motivated by our common mission of using technology to help RCFIs and financial technology companies succeed and who are knowledgeable with respect to the regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry. As we grow our business, we must continue to invest in and grow our services organization to support our customers' needs and maintain our reputation. 30 Table of Contents Key Operating Measures In addition to the United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, measures described below in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsComponents of Operating Results," we monitor the following operating measures to evaluate growth trends, plan investments and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts: Installed Customers We define installed customers as the number of customers on the Q2 platform from which we are currently recognizing revenues. The average size of our installed customers, measured in both registered users per installed customer and revenues per installed customer, has increased over time as our existing installed customers continue to add registered users and buy more solutions from us, and as we add larger RCFIs to our installed customer base. The net rate at which we add installed customers varies based on our implementation capacity, the size and unique needs of our customers, the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions, and customer attrition, including as a result of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions. We had 382, 385 and 369 installed customers on the Q2 platform as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Registered Users We define a registered user as an individual related to an account holder of an installed customer on the Q2 platform who has registered to use one or more of our solutions and has current access to use those solutions as of the last day of the reporting period presented. We price our solutions based on the number of registered users, so as the number of registered users of our solutions increases, our revenues grow. Our average number of registered users per installed customer grows as our existing customers add more registered users and as we add larger RCFIs to our installed customer base. We anticipate that the number of registered users will grow at a faster rate than our number of installed customers. The rate at which our customers add registered users and the incremental revenues we recognize from new registered users vary significantly period-to-period based on the timing of our implementations of new customers and the timing of registration of new users. Our installed customers had approximately 10.4 million, 8.6 million and 6.3 million registered users as of December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Registered users on the Q2 platform at March 31, 2018 were 10.9 million compared to 8.9 million at March 31, 2017 . Revenue Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our installed customers and expand their use of our products and services over time is an indicator of the stability of our revenue base and the long-term value of our customer relationships. We assess our performance in this area using a metric we refer to as our revenue retention rate. We calculate our revenue retention rate as the total revenues in a calendar year from customers who were installed customers on any Q2 solution as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of the total revenues during the prior year from those installed customers on any Q2 solution. Our revenue retention rate provides insight into the impact on current year revenues of the number of new customers implemented on any Q2 solution during the prior year, the timing of our implementation of those new customers in the prior year, growth in the number of registered users and changes in their usage of our solutions, sales of new products and services to our existing installed customers during the current year and installed customer attrition. The most significant drivers of changes in our revenue retention rate each year have historically been the number of new customers in the prior year and the timing of our implementation of those new customers. The timing of our implementation of new customers in the prior year is significant because we do not start recognizing revenues from new customers until they become installed customers. If implementations are weighted more heavily in the first or second half of the prior year, our revenue retention rate will be lower or higher, respectively. Our use of revenue retention rate has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate revenue retention rate differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Our revenue retention rate was 122% for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. Churn We utilize churn to monitor the satisfaction of our digital banking customers and evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies. We define churn as the amount of any monthly recurring revenue losses due to installed customer cancellations and downgrades, net of upgrades and additions of new solutions, during a year, divided by our monthly recurring revenue at the beginning of the year. Cancellations refer to installed customers that have either stopped using our services completely or remained a customer but terminated a particular service. Downgrades are a result of customers taking less of a particular service or renewing their contract for identical services at a lower price. Our annual churn has ranged from 5.1% to 3.5% over the last six years, and we had annual churn of 4.9%, 5.1% and 3.5% for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 31 Table of Contents and 2015, respectively. Our use of churn has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate churn differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss before depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, certain costs related to our recent acquisitions, (benefit from) provision for income taxes, total other (income) expense, net, and unoccupied lease charges. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results for the following reasons: adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a company's operating performance without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing, capital structures and the method by which assets were acquired; our management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP financial measures for planning purposes, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, as a measure of our operating performance, to assess the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance; adjusted EBITDA provides more consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our operations and also facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results; and our investor and analyst presentations include adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our overall operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net loss or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The use of adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool has limitations such as: depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, and the assets being depreciated or amortized will often have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA may not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that could reduce cash available for use; and other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA together with our GAAP financial measures including cash flow from operations and net loss. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (6,048 ) $ (7,040 ) Depreciation and amortization 3,878 3,525 Stock-based compensation expense 6,095 4,197 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (187 ) 136 Interest and other (income) expense, net 1,023 (34 ) Acquisition related costs 256 348 Adjusted EBITDA $ 5,017 $ 1,132 32 Table of Contents Components of Operating Results Revenues Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the substantial majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in our data centers as well as revenues for implementation and customer support services related to our solutions, and we recognize the corresponding revenues over time on a ratable basis over the the customer agreement term. A small portion of our customers host our solutions in their own data centers under term license and maintenance agreements, and we recognize the software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license and corresponding maintenance revenues over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Subscription fees are based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the number of registered users and the number of bill-pay and certain other transactions those users conduct using our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. Subscription fees are billed monthly, quarterly, or annually and are recognized monthly over the term of our customer agreements. The initial term of our customer agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. We begin recognizing subscription fees when the control of the service transfers to the customer, generally when the solution is implemented and made available to the customer. The timing of our implementations varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We recognize any related implementation services revenues ratably over the initial customer agreement term beginning on the date we commence recognizing subscription fees. Contract asset balances arise primarily when the Company provides services in advance of billing for those services. Amounts that have been invoiced but not paid are recorded in accounts receivable or other long-term assets, depending on the timing of expected billing, and in revenues or deferred revenues, depending on when control of the service transfers to the customer. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for employees providing services to our customers. This includes the costs of our implementation, customer support, data center and customer training personnel, as well as costs related to research and development personnel who perform implementation and customer support services. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, the amortization of deferred solution and services costs, co-location facility costs and depreciation of our data center assets, an allocation of general overhead costs, the amortization of acquired technology, and referral fees. We allocate general overhead expenses to all departments based on the number of employees in each department, which we consider to be a fair and representative means of allocation. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solution to the extent those costs are considered to be recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for a particular implementation once revenue recognition commences, and we amortize those implementation costs over the expected period of customer benefit, which has been determined to be the estimated life of the technology. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We capitalize certain software development costs related to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions. The costs related to software development that are incurred between reaching technological feasibility of a solution and the point at which the solution is ready for general release are capitalized and are included in intangible assets, net on the consolidated balance sheet. During the year ended December 31, 2017, all of the products related to capitalized software development costs reached general release, and we have commenced amortization of these costs. Capitalized software development costs are computed on an individual product basis and products available for market are amortized to cost of revenues over the products' estimated economic lives. We intend to continue to increase our investments in our implementation and customer support teams and technology infrastructure to serve our customers and support our growth. We expect cost of revenues to continue to grow in absolute dollars as we grow our business but to fluctuate as a percentage of revenues based principally on the level and timing of implementation and support activities and other related costs. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. They also include costs related to our acquisitions and the resulting amortization of acquired intangible assets from those acquisitions. We intend to continue to hire new employees and make other investments to support our anticipated growth. As a result, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of revenues over the long term as we grow our business. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including commissions, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to advertising, lead generation, promotional event programs, corporate communications, travel and allocated overhead. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues will change in any given period based on several factors including the addition of newly-hired sales professionals, the number and timing of newly-installed customers and the amount of sales commissions expense amortized related to those customers. Commissions are generally capitalized and then amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Sales and marketing expenses are also impacted by the timing of significant marketing programs such as our annual user conference which we typically hold during the second quarter. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing by increasing our number of sales and marketing personnel and expanding our sales and marketing activities. We believe these investments will help us build brand awareness, add new customers and expand sales to our existing customers as they continue to buy more solutions from us, the number of registered users utilizing our solutions grows and those users increase the number of transactions on our solutions. Research and Development We believe that continuing to improve and enhance our solutions is essential to maintaining our reputation for innovation and growing our customer base and revenues. Research and development expenses include salaries and personnel-related costs, including benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, software development costs, allocated overhead and other related expenses incurred in developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions. Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. Certain research and development costs that are related to our software development, which includes salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits and bonuses attributed to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions, are capitalized and are included in intangible assets, net on the consolidated balance sheet. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, legal and human resources employees. General and administrative expenses also include consulting and professional fees, insurance and travel. We expect to continue to incur incremental expenses associated with the growth of our business and to meet increased compliance requirements associated with operating as a public company. These expenses include costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations governing public companies, increased costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance and investor relations activities. Acquisition Related Costs Acquisition related costs include compensation expenses related to milestone provisions and retention agreements with certain former shareholders and employees of Centrix and Social Money which are recognized as earned, and various legal and professional service expenses incurred in connection with the acquisitions, which were recognized when incurred. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Amortization of acquired intangibles represent the amortization of intangibles recorded in connection with our business acquisitions which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. 34 Table of Contents Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and expense and loss on disposal of long-lived assets. We earn interest income on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our Convertible Notes, and fees and interest associated with the letter of credit issued to our landlord for the security deposit for our corporate headquarters. Benefit from (Provision for) Income Taxes As a result of our current net operating loss position, current income taxes consist primarily of state income taxes and state research and development credits, and deferred income taxes relate to the tax amortization of recently acquired goodwill. Results of Operations Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Data The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Revenues $ 54,808 $ 44,534 Cost of revenues (1)(2) 26,977 22,772 Gross profit 27,831 21,762 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (2) 10,966 9,878 Research and development (2) 11,157 9,651 General and administrative (2) 10,296 8,452 Acquisition related costs 256 348 Amortization of acquired intangibles 368 371 Total operating expenses 33,043 28,700 Loss from operations (5,212 ) (6,938 ) Total other income (expense), net (1,023 ) 34 Loss before income taxes (6,235 ) (6,904 ) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 187 (136 ) Net loss $ (6,048 ) $ (7,040 ) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $0.9 million for each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 . (2) Includes stock-based compensation expenses as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Cost of revenues $ 1,015 $ 724 Sales and marketing 1,226 631 Research and development 1,356 945 General and administrative 2,498 1,897 Total stock-based compensation expenses $ 6,095 $ 4,197 35 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenues for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues (1)(2) 49.2 51.1 Gross profit 50.8 48.9 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (2) 20.0 22.2 Research and development (2) 20.4 21.7 General and administrative (2) 18.8 19.0 Acquisition related costs 0.5 0.8 Amortization of acquired intangibles 0.7 0.8 Total operating expenses 60.3 64.4 Loss from operations (9.5 ) (15.6 ) Total other income (expense), net (1.9 ) 0.1 Loss before income taxes (11.4 ) (15.5 ) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 0.3 (0.3 ) Net loss (11.0 )% (15.8 )% ______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of 1.7% and 2.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. (2) Includes stock-based compensation expenses as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Cost of revenues 1.9 % 1.6 % Sales and marketing 2.2 1.4 Research and development 2.5 2.1 General and administrative 4.6 4.3 Total stock-based compensation expenses 11.1 % 9.4 % Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the line items in the tables above. 36 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenues The following table presents our revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) Revenues $ 54,808 $ 44,534 $ 10,274 23.1 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . Revenues increased by $10.3 million , or 23.1% , from $44.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to $54.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $8.7 million increase from growth in new registered users from existing customers and the addition of registered users from newly installed customers, and $1.6 million of revenue growth was generated primarily from an increase in the number of transactions processed using our solutions. These increases for the three months ended March 31, 2018 included $2.3 million related to the adjustments from the new revenue standard. Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) Cost of revenues $ 26,977 $ 22,772 $ 4,205 18.5 % Percentage of revenues 49.2 % 51.1 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . Cost of revenues increased by $4.2 million , or 18.5% , from $22.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to $27.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This increase was attributable to a $2.3 million increase in personnel costs due to an increase in the number of personnel who provide implementation and customer support and maintain our data centers and other technical infrastructure, which included a $0.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to cost of revenues for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the increased fair value of the awards granted due to the increase in our stock price. In addition, there was a $1.2 million increase in co-location facility costs and depreciation for our data center assets resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support our growing customer base, a $0.4 million increase from amortization of capitalized implementation services, a $0.2 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs incurred as a result of the increase in registered users from existing and new customers, as well as implementation and support personnel expenses that are reimbursable from our customers, and a $0.1 million increase in facilities, information technology, and other overhead costs which were allocated to our implementation and support departments. We defer certain payroll costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are considered to be recoverable from future revenues. However, a substantial portion of our implementation costs are not eligible for deferral and, as a result, are expensed in the period incurred. Costs related to implementations that have been deferred are amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Additionally, we invest in personnel, business processes and systems infrastructure to standardize our business processes and drive future efficiency in our implementations, customer support and data center operations. We expect these investments will increase cost of revenues in absolute dollars as we continue to make investments in capacity and process improvement. 37 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following tables present our operating expenses for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) Sales and marketing $ 10,966 $ 9,878 $ 1,088 11.0 % Percentage of revenues 20.0 % 22.2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.1 million , or 11.0% , from $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to $11.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily attributable to a $0.8 million increase in personnel costs due to the growth of our sales and marketing organizations, which included a $0.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to sales and marketing expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vested during the period and the increased fair value of the awards granted due to the increase in our stock price. In addition, there was a $0.2 million increase in travel related expenses and a $0.1 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our sales and marketing departments. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we add personnel to support our revenue growth and as we increase discretionary marketing spend to attract new customers, retain and grow existing customers and drive brand awareness. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over time as our revenues grow. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) Research and development $ 11,157 $ 9,651 $ 1,506 15.6 % Percentage of revenues 20.4 % 21.7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . Research and development expenses increased by $1.5 million , or 15.6% , from $9.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily attributable to a $1.0 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions, which included a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to research and development expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based awards vesting during the period and the increased fair value of the awards vesting due to the increase in our stock price. An additional $0.5 million of the increase resulted from the reduction of capitalization of research and development salaries as software development costs because all products previously being capitalized reached general release during 2017. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to support and expand our platform and enhance our existing solutions. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) General and administrative $ 10,296 $ 8,452 $ 1,844 21.8 % Percentage of revenues 18.8 % 19.0 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . General and administrative expenses increased by $1.8 million , or 21.8% , from $8.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to $10.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $1.0 million increase in personnel costs to support the growth of our business, which included a $0.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to general and administrative expenses for the increase in the number of stock-based 38 Table of Contents awards vested during the period and the increased fair value of the awards granted due to the increase in our stock price. In addition, there was a $0.6 million increase in professional services for legal and consulting fees and a $0.2 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our general and administrative departments. General and administrative expenses include costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX, and other regulations governing public companies, costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance and investor relations activities. We anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to incur both increased external audit fees as well as additional spending to ensure continued SOX and other regulatory compliance. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over time as our revenues grow. Acquisition Related Costs Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) Acquisition related costs $ 256 $ 348 $ (92 ) (26.4 )% Percentage of revenues 0.5 % 0.8 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . Acquisition related costs decreased by $0.1 million , or 26.4% , from $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The expense for each of these periods is comprised of compensation expense related to the remaining retention bonuses for employees of the companies acquired in 2015. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 368 $ 371 $ (3 ) (0.8 )% Percentage of revenues 0.7 % 0.8 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . Amortization of acquired intangibles was relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The acquired intangible assets are related to our business combinations in 2015 and asset purchase in 2017, and these amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ (%) Total other income (expense), net $ (1,023 ) $ 34 $ (1,057 ) (3,108.8 )% Percentage of revenues (1.9 )% 0.1 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 . Total other income (expense), net decreased by $1.1 million from income of $34.0 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to expense of $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 consists primarily of the interest from the amortization of debt discount, issuance costs, and coupon interest attributable to our Convertible Notes issued in February 2018. Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our overall operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of investments in growing our business. The timing of our implementation activities and corresponding revenues from new customers are subject to fluctuation based on the timing of our sales. Sales may tend to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in subsequent quarters but any resulting impact on our results of operation has been difficult to measure due to the timing of our implementations and overall growth in our business. The timing of our implementations also varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of 39 Table of Contents interaction between our customers and their account holders. As a result, we and our customers are very deliberate and careful in our implementation activities to help ensure a successful roll-out of the solutions to account holders and increase the registration of new users. Unusually long or short implementations, for even a small number of customers, may result in short-term quarterly variability in our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity We have financed our operations primarily through the proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering, or IPO, and follow-on offerings and cash flows from operations. In February 2018, we issued the Convertible Notes to supplement our overall liquidity position. At March 31, 2018 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and investments of $294.1 million . Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (7,103 ) $ (10,668 ) Investing activities (2,645 ) (4,439 ) Financing activities 207,198 2,990 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 197,450 $ (12,117 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is primarily influenced by the amount and timing of customer receipts and vendor payments and by the amount of cash we invest in personnel and infrastructure to support the anticipated growth of our business and increase in the number of installed customers. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , our net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities were $7.1 million , which consisted a net loss of $6.0 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $14.6 million , partially offset by non-cash adjustments of $13.5 million . Cash outflows were the result of a $4.7 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period, a $4.3 million decrease in accrued liabilities mainly from the payment of annual bonuses, a $3.7 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and customer payments, a $1.7 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to various prepaid expenses, a $1.1 million decrease in accounts payable due to timing of payments, $0.8 million in contract assets added as a result of the adoption of the new revenue standard, and a $0.5 million net increase in other long-term assets and long-term liabilities. Cash inflows were the result of a $2.3 million increase in deferred revenue due to payments and deposits received from customers prior to the delivery of the related performance obligations. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $6.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $3.9 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, $2.2 million of amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, $1.2 million in amortization of Convertible Notes discount and related debt issuance costs, and $0.1 million of other non-cash items. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , our net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities were $10.7 million, which consisted of a net loss of $7.0 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $13.3 million, partially offset by non-cash adjustments of $9.6 million. Cash inflows were the result of a $3.8 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and customer payments and a $1.3 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base and related growth in our technical infrastructure and expanded facilities. Cash outflows were the result of an $8.8 million decrease in accrued liabilities mainly from the payment of the $6.0 million milestone bonus and annual bonuses, a $3.4 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our 40 Table of Contents increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period, a $3.1 million decrease in deferred revenues due to the recognition of revenue from prior payments exceeding deposits received from customers during the period, a $2.8 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to various prepaid expenses related to our annual client conference, and a $0.3 million decrease in deferred rent and other long-term liabilities. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $4.2 million of stock-based compensation expense, $3.5 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, and $1.7 million of amortization of deferred implementation, deferred solution and other costs. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments, our recent acquisitions, purchases of property and equipment to support our growth, and costs incurred for the development of capitalized software. Purchases of property and equipment may vary period-to-period due to the timing of the expansion of our operations, data center and other technical infrastructure. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in investing activities was $2.6 million , consisting primarily of $5.4 million for the purchase of property and equipment and $0.2 million for release of the hold back from the asset purchase in 2017, partially offset by $2.9 million from maturities of investments. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash used in investing activities was $4.4 million, consisting primarily of $5.4 million for the purchase of property and equipment, $2.9 million for the purchase of investments, $1.3 million for an asset purchase, and $0.5 million from the capitalization of software development costs, partially offset by $5.7 million from maturities of investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our financing activities have consisted primarily of net proceeds from exercises of options to purchase common stock, and in February 2018, we issued $230.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.75% Convertible Notes due February 15, 2023, unless repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by financing activities was $207.2 million , which was primarily due to the issuance of $223.7 million principal amount of the Convertible Notes, net of issuance costs, and the related sale of Warrants for $22.4 million , offset by the purchase of Bond Hedges for $41.7 million . In addition, cash flows from financing activities included $2.8 million of cash received from the exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash provided by financing activities was $3.0 million, consisting primarily of cash received from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended March 31, 2018, and subsequent to March 31, 2018, except as noted below, there were no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments disclosures as set forth under the caption, "Contractual Obligations and Commitments" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018. In February 2018, we issued $230.0 million principal amount of 0.75% convertible senior notes due February 15, 2023, unless earlier converted or repurchased in accordance with their terms prior to such date. Interest is payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year. See Note 9 Convertible Senior Notes to the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments at March 31, 2018 (in thousands): Payment due by period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total Convertible Notes, including interest $ 1,725 $ 5,175 $ 231,725 $ $ 238,625 Operating lease obligations 5,670 11,416 8,728 19,351 45,165 Purchase commitments 14,171 16,265 14,711 3,678 48,825 $ 21,566 $ 32,856 $ 255,164 $ 23,029 $ 332,615 41 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K, such as the use of unconsolidated subsidiaries, structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," or ASU 2014-09, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled to when products are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-09 was modified by subsequently issued ASUs 2015-14, 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12 and 2016-20. Topic 606 also includes Subtopic 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs - Contracts with Customers, which requires the deferral of incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Collectively, we refer to ASU 2014-09, as amended, and Subtopic 340-40 as the "new revenue standard." On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new revenue standard for all contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method. Adoption of the new revenue standard resulted in changes to our accounting policies for revenue recognition, contract balances, accounts receivables, deferred revenues, deferred implementation costs, and deferred solution and other costs. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as a positive adjustment to the opening balance of accumulated deficit on the condensed consolidated balance sheet in the amount of $15.8 million , which reflects the acceleration of revenues and deferral of incremental commission costs of obtaining subscription contracts. The comparative information in prior periods presented has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for the impact of this adoption. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)," to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The standard is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, and early application is permitted. We anticipate that the adoption of Topic 842 will impact our condensed consolidated balance sheets as most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as right-of-use assets and corresponding operating lease liabilities upon the adoption of ASU 2016-02, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities that we report relative to such amounts prior to adoption. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments," to clarify and provide specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues that are not addressed by current GAAP and thereby reduce the current diversity in practice. We adopted ASU 2016-15, effective January 1, 2018, and there was no impact on the condensed consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash," which provides guidance on the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. We adopted this ASU retrospectively, effective January 1, 2018. As a result of including restricted cash with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the consolidated statements of cash flows, resulting in an increase in net cash flows of $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and $1.3 million for fiscal 2017. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment" which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment by removing Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test and requires an entity to write down the carrying value of goodwill up to the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years and early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718)" to provide clarity and reduce both diversity in practice and cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. We adopted ASU 2017-09, effective January 1, 2018, and there was no impact on the condensed consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption. In December 2017, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118 to address the application of GAAP in situations in which a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-05, "Income Taxes 42 Table of Contents (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SEC Update)," which amended ASC 740 to incorporate the requirements of SAB 118. We recorded the provisional tax impacts of the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2017. During the first quarter of 2018, we did not receive any additional information regarding these provisional calculations. As a result, we continue to anticipate finalizing our analysis in connection with the completion of our tax return for 2017 to be filed in 2018. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent liabilities in our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company's critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates: Revenue recognition; Contract balances; Accounts receivable; Deferred revenues; Deferred implementation costs; Deferred solution and other costs; Stock-based compensation; Convertible senior notes; Purchase price allocation, intangible assets and goodwill; Capitalization of software development costs; and Income taxes. We have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Of those policies, we believe that the accounting policies enumerated above involve the greatest degree of complexity and exercise of judgment by our management. Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition, deferred revenues, deferred implementation costs, deferred solutions and other costs, and accounts receivable that were updated as a result of adopting Topic 606, and convertible senior notes from the issuance of our Convertible Notes, there were no other significant changes in our critical accounting policies or estimates which were included in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 , which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018. We evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions on an ongoing basis, and while we believe that our estimates, judgments and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions.