Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating Measures" for additional detail on how we define "Installed Customers" and "Registered Users." We primarily sell subscriptions to our solutions through our direct sales organization and recognize the related revenues over the terms of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform agreements averages over five years. Our digital banking platform revenues generally increase as we add new customers, sell additional solutions to existing customers, the number of End Users on our solutions grows and the number of transactions that End Users perform on our solutions increases. The structure and terms of our newer lending and leasing, BaaS and sales enablement and portfolio management solution arrangements are varied, but generally are also sold on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. We have achieved significant growth since our inception. We had total revenues of $402.8 million, $315.5 million and $241.1 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, to grow our business by expanding our sales and marketing activities, developing and acquiring new solutions, enhancing our existing solutions and technical infrastructure and scaling our operations. We incurred net losses of $137.6 million, $70.9 million and $35.4 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had total assets of $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. Refer to "Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic" included in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risks Related to Covid-19 Pandemic" included in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for additional information on the impacts and risks of the COVID-19 Pandemic on us and the actions we have taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We were incorporated in March 2005 in the state of Delaware under the name CBG Holdings, Inc. We changed our name to Q2 Holdings, Inc. in March 2013. We are headquartered in Austin, Texas, and our principal executive offices are located at 13785 Research Blvd, Suite 150, Austin, Texas 78750. Our telephone number is (512) 275-0072. Industry Background The financial services market is intensely competitive. The growth and adoption of digital financial services has and continues to create challenges and opportunities for both traditional providers such as financial institutions as well as emerging providers such as Alt-FIs and FinTechs. The proliferation and adoption of mobile and tablet devices and digital services are dramatically changing the financial services market The proliferation and ubiquity of mobile and tablet devices and End Users' increasing expectations for digital services have driven increases in the number of financial services providers, greater fragmentation of the financial services market and a broadening set of new and innovative digital financial services. End Users increasingly expect to transact and engage with financial services providers anytime, anywhere and on any device, and seamlessly across devices. These changes in the financial services market and in End-User expectations create challenges and opportunities for financial institutions as well as emerging financial services providers such as Alt-FIs and FinTechs. Financial institutions, Alt-FIs and FinTechs are seeking to address these challenges and opportunities and capture End-User engagement by providing an ever-broadening set of new and innovative digital financial services, solutions and experiences which better align with End Users' increasingly digital lives, experiences and interactions. These services, experiences and solutions include, among other things, account opening, deposits, investments, payments, money transfers, credit card management and loan applications. The digital solutions offered by emerging financial services providers are often dependent upon core banking functions, creating an interdependency between emerging and traditional financial services providers. Financial institutions of all sizes provide two fundamental banking functions among others - they hold NCUA-insured or FDIC-insured deposits and they transfer money. Providing these critical banking functions generally requires a federal or state banking charter, as well as specialized expertise and infrastructure, and subjects the provider to complex regulatory oversight by various authorities. As an example, electronic payment transactions in the United States, other than wire transfers, are conducted as automated clearinghouse, or ACH, transactions, which settle through the Federal Reserve System in most cases, and generally, only financial institutions can obtain the necessary master account with a Federal Reserve Bank to settle transactions. These laws and regulations have existed for decades, are extremely burdensome, constantly evolving, and require financial institutions to implement and maintain complex and costly operating policies, procedures and infrastructure to protect End Users, their deposits and their personal information. As emerging financial services providers explore new digital services offerings, they often utilize the banking services of financial institutions in partnership rather than making the significant investments in expertise and infrastructure necessary to obtain a banking charter and otherwise become regulatory-compliant. 5 Table of Contents Security is paramount for digital financial services The risks of theft and fraud have always existed in banking and financial services. However, as the adoption, use, and breadth of digital financial services offerings has increased, the incidence of fraud and theft in digital channels has grown substantially. The methods by which criminals seek to commit fraud are constantly changing, requiring financial services providers and their technology providers to continually modify their security protocols. In addition, safeguarding the funds and information of financial service providers and their End Users becomes increasingly complex as digital financial services grow and extend across new channels, devices, and services not previously contemplated. Digital financial services are highly regulated Financial services providers and their solutions are subject to extensive and complex regulations and oversight by federal, state and other regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and affect the conduct of financial service providers' operations and, as a result, the business of their technology providers. The compliance of digital financial solutions with these regulatory requirements depends on a variety of factors, including functionality and design, the classification of the financial service provider and its services, and the manner in which the financial service provider and its End Users utilize the solutions. In order to comply with and assist financial service providers in complying with these laws, technology providers to financial service providers may be required to implement operating policies and procedures to protect the privacy and security of their, the financial service providers' and their End Users' information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations. Maintaining such regulatory compliance becomes increasingly complex as digital financial services grow and extend across new channels, devices, and services not previously contemplated. Digital financial services are complex and often have limitations The continued proliferation of mobile and tablet devices and digital solutions offered through open development platforms makes it increasingly difficult to provide a consistent, intuitive and personalized End-User experience and requires digital solutions to support new and rapidly changing mobile operating systems and device types. The technical and operational complexities of delivering integrated digital solutions across multiple operating systems, devices, channels, and complex functionality increase the difficulty of providing a consistent, intuitive and personalized End-User experience. Aging or increasingly complex solutions can create the following challenges for financial services providers: integrating applications and systems from multiple vendors may increase costs and time-to-market; managing relationships with multiple vendors can be time consuming and require greater management infrastructure; building, maintaining and upgrading regulatory-compliant and secure solutions and infrastructure can be expensive and time-consuming and require special expertise that can be hard to find and retain; operating, supporting and upgrading systems from multiple vendors can be difficult, costly and less secure and limit the ability to provide a unified End-User experience or comprehensive view of End-User behavior; partnering with FinTechs and Alt-FIs and innovating and delivering new solutions can be difficult and cost-prohibitive when integration with dated legacy infrastructure is required; and training End Users and internal personnel on the use of different point systems can be challenging, time-consuming and costly. The use of multiple point solutions for digital financial services can require End Users to maintain different login credentials across digital channels and learn and understand different systems. Additionally, the disjointed nature of the underlying workflows, data and terminology caused by the implementation of multiple solutions can lead to decreased End-User adoption, retention and satisfaction. End Users' adoption, retention and satisfaction can also be adversely impacted by the dated End User interfaces of older legacy systems. The market for digital financial services is significant We define RCFIs as federally-insured banks and credit unions with less than $100 billion in assets, which according to data compiled by BauerFinancial as of September 30, 2020, consisted of approximately 10,200 financial institutions with combined assets of $8.3 trillion, representing 36% of assets held by all federally-insured financial institutions. RCFIs have historically sought to differentiate themselves by providing local, personalized banking services that are responsive to the changing needs and circumstances of their communities. Many RCFIs are locally owned and obtain deposits and make lending decisions on a local basis. RCFIs account for a large portion of small business loans, helping local businesses create jobs and drive economic growth in the communities they serve. RCFIs seek to develop strong, lasting relationships with their End Users and can serve as centers of commerce and influence in their communities. 6 Table of Contents The Alt-FI and FinTech markets consist of thousands of emerging financial services providers all over the world seeking to provide End Users with new and innovative financial services, experiences and solutions that can be competitive with, but also complimentary to and dependent upon banking. Alt-FIs and FinTechs are typically more nimble and development-focused and less constrained than traditional financial services providers are by legacy technology solutions, physical branch locations and regulation. Alt-FIs and FinTechs have received substantial investment, estimated to be greater than $250 billion globally from 2008 through 2020, according to Deloitte's web-based Interactive Fintech Funding Report citing Venture Scanner source data. We have continuously invested in expanding and improving our digital banking platform since its introduction in 2005. In addition, over the past three years we have acquired or developed new solutions and additional functions that serve a broader range of needs of financial institutions as well as the needs of Alt-FIs and FinTechs. Our solutions now include a broad range of services and experiences including commercial banking, regulatory and compliance, digital lending and leasing, BaaS, digital account opening and data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management solutions. Our expanded solution offerings and the corresponding growth of our customer base and market opportunity have increased our addressable market. Based on our estimates of the number of target RCFIs for our digital banking solutions and our internal assumptions as to the number and types of digital accounts they serve, the prices for our solutions and the number of transactions processed, we believe that the market for our digital banking solutions, including retail, small business, commercial, digital account opening and Centrix solutions is greater than $5.0 billion. Based on our estimate of the number of target providers of digital lending and leasing services and our internal assumptions as to the number of End Users they serve and the prices for our solutions, we believe that the market for our digital lending and leasing solutions, including the borrower portal, origination, underwriting, servicing, collections, actionable insights, coaching, negotiation, pricing and sales enablement modules, is greater than $4.0 billion. The market for our open application programming interface, or API, solutions for financial services generally, including potential customer segments and product use cases, is relatively new, broad and continually evolving. Based on our estimates of the number of target financial institutions and FinTechs for our BaaS solutions and our internal assumptions as to the number of End Users they serve, the prices for our solutions and the number of transactions processed, we believe the market for our BaaS solutions is greater than $1.0 billion. In the aggregate, we believe that the worldwide market for our solutions is greater than $10.0 billion. The continued proliferation of mobile and tablet devices and digital solutions offered through open development platforms makes it increasingly difficult to provide a consistent, intuitive and personalized End-User experience and requires digital solutions to support new and rapidly changing mobile operating systems and device types. The technical and operational complexities of delivering secure, regulatory-compliant, integrated digital solutions across multiple operating systems, devices, channels, and complex functionality increases the difficulty of providing a consistent, intuitive and personalized End-User experience. We believe that financial services providers are best served by a broad integrated portfolio of digital solutions that provide rapid, flexible and comprehensive integration with internal and third-party systems allowing them to provide modern, intuitive digital financial services in a secure, regulatory-compliant manner. We have deep domain expertise in new, innovative, secure and regulatory-compliant digital solutions in the complex and highly-regulated financial services industry and with the technical and operational complexities of delivering integrated financial services solutions across multiple operating systems, devices and channels. As a result, we believe that the breadth and depth of our solution offerings across the financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech markets, our open and flexible platform approach, our position as a leading provider of digital banking solutions to a large network of RCFIs, and our expertise in delivering new, innovative, secure and regulatory-compliant digital solutions uniquely position us in the market for digital financial services solutions. Our Solutions We are a leading provider of secure, cloud-based digital solutions that transform the ways in which traditional and emerging financial service providers engage with End Users. We sell our solutions to financial institutions, Alt-FIs, and FinTechs. Our solutions are designed to deliver a robust suite of digital financial services that enable End Users of banking, lending, leasing and BaaS solutions to transact and engage anytime, anywhere and on any device. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of engagement between our customers and their End Users. As such, we purpose-build our solutions to deliver compelling and consistent End-User experiences across digital channels and to drive the success of our customers by optimizing their digital brands and enhancing End-User acquisition, retention and engagement. 7 Table of Contents Key Solution Offerings Our portfolio of digital solutions includes the following key offerings: Digital Banking Platform : Our digital banking platform supports our RCFI customers in their delivery of unified digital banking services across digital channels. Our open digital banking platform provides our RCFI customers with the tools, knowledge, and access necessary to customize and extend the platform, allowing our RCFI customers to deliver targeted experiences and branding to End Users. Lending and Leasing : Our end-to-end digital lending and leasing portfolio allows our financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech customers to simplify the End-User experiences of borrowers, accelerate loan decisioning, and reduce operational inefficiencies through digitization and automation of the traditional loan application and underwriting process. In addition, our leasing solutions provide our financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech customers with digital solutions for consumer, commercial, small business, construction and equipment financing. Our lending portfolio also provides commercial relationship managers with actionable data-driven insights into an individual commercial End User's entire portfolio, assessing the overall portfolio and individual relationships, highlighting potential concerns and identifying opportunities, and ultimately helping the relationship manager to more effectively price, negotiate and close commercial loans. BaaS : Our portfolio of open API tools provides our RCFI, Alt-FI and FinTech customers with a cost-effective platform to quickly develop and launch a variety of BaaS solutions that are complimentary to and, in most cases, dependent on banking. In addition, our open API tools allow our RCFI customers to create their own digital deposit and payment products, either by building their own custom solutions or by using Q2-developed white-label products utilizing the API portfolio. Key Benefits Our solutions provide the following key benefits to our customers and their End Users: Intuitive design: We designed from inception the features and End-User experience of our solutions to be optimized for touch-based devices and then extend that design to other digital channels. This design process and our broad feature offerings enable our solutions to deliver a modern, unified End-User experience across digital channels. Comprehensive view of End Users: Our digital banking platform provides our RCFI customers with a comprehensive view of End-User access and activity across devices and channels. The insights made possible by a comprehensive view enable an enhanced, personalized End-User experience, real-time risk and fraud assessment and other analytic features that improve the function and security of our solutions. Flexible integration: We have developed a highly flexible set of integration tools, enabling the rapid integration of third-party applications and data sources. These integration tools connect with a wide variety of third-party applications, allowing us to seamlessly integrate with our customers' internal and third-party systems such as account services, payments and imaging. SaaS delivery model: We developed our solutions to be cloud-based. Our customers subscribe and pay for their use of our solutions over time, and our solutions do not require our customers to install any significant technical infrastructure. While we host our digital banking platform for substantially all of our RCFI customers, our lending, leasing, and BaaS solutions are hosted with industry leading public cloud service providers. Our SaaS delivery model can reduce the total cost of ownership of our customers by providing the development, implementation, integration, maintenance, monitoring and support of our cloud-based solutions on a subscription basis. Our solutions are designed to support the rapid addition of new services as well as the introduction of new devices and digital channels. As a result, our customers can easily scale the use of our solutions with their needs as they add End Users and expand the digital services and solutions they offer. Regulatory compliance: Our solutions leverage our deep domain expertise and the significant investments we have made in the design and development of our data center architecture and other technical infrastructure, including public cloud services, to meet the stringent security and technical requirements on financial institutions and financial services providers. Customers who use our cloud-based solutions are able to satisfy security and technical compliance obligations by relying on the security programs and regulatory certification of our data centers and other technical infrastructure. By doing so, our customers avoid the significant cost and effort associated with building, maintaining and upgrading a regulatory-compliant and secure environment on their own. 8 Table of Contents Delivery of robust digital financial services across multiple channels: Our solutions enable our customers to deliver robust and integrated digital financial services to their End Users who increasingly expect and appreciate the freedom to transact and engage anytime, anywhere and on any device. Through a single log-in and consistent workflow, End Users are able to seamlessly conduct consumer and commercial transactions across digital channels and devices. Improved and more frequent engagement with End Users: The breadth of our solutions and quality of the End-User experience they provide enable our customers to increase the frequency and effectiveness of their interactions with End Users. We believe the frequency and ease of these interactions can strengthen the relationships between End Users and our customers and help our customers better serve their End Users through a more comprehensive understanding of their behavior and activities. We believe that engaging with commercial End Users, in particular, involves unique challenges, and by enabling commercial relationship managers with actionable data-driven insights into commercial End-User relationships, they can better serve their commercial End Users and increase the overall performance of their financial institution. Drive End-User loyalty: We believe our customers are able to drive loyalty by increasing their level and quality of End-User engagement. Our customers are able to tailor our solutions by offering individually relevant functionality as well as branded, localized End-User experiences. Our digital banking platform and lending solutions provide our financial institution customers with a comprehensive view of operational and End-User activity across channels and devices allowing them to look for opportunities to improve End-User engagement and grow their End-User relationships with targeted offerings based on specific behavior. We believe this further strengthens End-User loyalty by enabling our customers to engage End Users through customized and End-User-friendly digital experiences. More effective marketing of products and services: Our customers' marketing of their new and existing products and services through our solutions can be frequent, timely and targeted. The ease and availability of communications within digital channels also make it easier for End Users to find information about products and services. Our solutions also offer a simplified transaction experience, which can help improve sales of products and services. Real-time security: We employ multi-layered controls to help secure our customers' and End Users' information. Each layer addresses specific areas of possible fraud or data vulnerability. Our customers can use transactional-based controls to reduce fraudulent transactions by allowing them to adjust configurations such as transaction values, payment windows or account suspension. Our digital banking platform customers who leverage our Q2 Sentinel product are able to block suspected fraudulent activity in real-time at the application layer and notify operations staff and End Users of suspect transactions prior to consummation of a transaction. This approach reduces and better manages the security risks in financial services and help protect our customers' reputations. Our Business Strengths Since our inception, our mission has been to help financial institutions compete and strengthen the markets they serve. We are highly committed to this mission, and support it by focusing on designing, developing and acquiring new, innovative digital banking and other financial services solutions to meet transforming End-User expectations. We believe we are well positioned to connect and serve traditional and emerging financial services providers as they transform the ways in which they engage, either independently or in partnership, with End Users globally: Our purpose-built digital banking platform leads the RCFI digital banking market: We built our digital banking platform to address unique challenges that RCFIs face in providing digital banking services. Our digital banking platform was created to support the proliferation of mobile and tablet devices and the speed at which their use has become a common part of daily life. Our digital banking platform reduces the inefficiencies of traditional point-to-point integration strategies and replaces multiple management consoles with a single unified view of the rules, rights and security involved with operating seamlessly across digital channels. Our digital banking solutions enable our RCFI customers to provide a compelling, unified End-User experience to consumer and commercial End Users using a single login anywhere, anytime and on any device. We believe our deep domain experience as a leading provider of digital banking solutions positions us well to provide new, innovative digital banking and other financial services solutions to meet transforming End-User expectations. We have acquired and developed solutions to better serve our financial institution customers and a broader set of global financial service providers including Alt-FIs and FinTechs: Over the past few years, we have expanded our portfolio to include offerings such as our end-to-end lending and leasing, BaaS, digital account opening and data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management solutions. As the financial services landscape has evolved to become more digitized and open, we have strived to ensure our customers can offer a broader range of digital services to their End Users. 9 Table of Contents We have a proven track record in providing digital solutions to financial services providers: Our founders and management have a track record of successfully delivering technology for financial services providers. We have deep domain expertise in financial services and community banking which we utilize to develop and deliver our solutions and services to our customers. Our sales model is tailored to our different markets: The financial institution market is well defined and allows us to effectively direct our go-to-market strategy for our sales and marketing efforts. Utilizing the deep industry experience of our management and sales teams, we are able to leverage our relationships with leaders and influencers at many of our financial institution customers as valuable sources of reference and promotion. We have also developed actionable insights into our sales and marketing performance, enabling us to be efficient with our go-to-market investments. The Alt-FI and FinTech markets are relatively new, broad and continually evolving. As a result, we utilize third-party partnerships and insights from our experience with financial institution customers to effectively pursue these markets. We grow our customer relationships over time: Throughout our long-term customer relationships, we employ a structured strategy designed to inform, educate and enhance customer confidence and help our customers identify and implement additional solutions to benefit and grow their End-User bases. Our revenues are highly predictable: To date, a substantial majority of our revenues continue to result from sales of our digital banking platform to RCFIs. We generally recognize our revenues over the terms of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform customer agreements averages over five years. Our long-term agreements and our high customer retention, as well as the growth over time in the number of End Users using our solutions, drive the recurring nature of our revenues and provide us with significant visibility into future revenues. Furthermore, we believe our customer services model drives high retention rates and incremental sales of our solutions. Our award-winning culture drives innovation and customer success: We believe our award-winning, innovation-focused culture and the location of our operations facilitate recruiting and retaining top development, integration and design talent. We are headquartered in Austin, Texas which is a vibrant city that continues to attract an increasing number of young professionals and has close ties to leading research institutions. In each of the past ten years, the Austin American Statesman recognized us as one of Austin's "Top Places to Work." We believe our mission, combined with our focus on delivering leading-edge digital solutions, enables us to attract and retain top talent. Our Growth Strategy We believe we are well positioned to connect and serve traditional and emerging financial services providers as they transform the ways in which they engage, either independently or in partnership, with End Users globally. To accomplish this goal, we are pursuing the following growth strategies: Further penetrate our large market opportunity: We believe financial institutions are increasingly adopting cloud-based digital banking solutions. With the ubiquity of mobile and tablet devices and resulting proliferation of mobile digital solutions provided through their open developer platforms, End Users are increasingly engaging with financial institutions, Alt-FIs and FinTechs across a variety of digital channels. Over the past three years, in response to the increasing demand for innovative digital banking and other financial services, we have expanded our addressable market by acquiring and developing solutions that serve the needs of a broader, global set of emerging financial services providers such as Alt-FIs and FinTechs and their End Users, which also facilitates partnerships with and integration to the digital solutions of our financial institution customers. We intend to further penetrate our large market opportunity and increase our number of financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech customers using our broad range of digital solutions through acquiring and developing additional solutions, investments in our sales and marketing organization and related activities. Grow revenues by expanding our relationships with existing customers: We believe there is significant opportunity to expand our relationships with existing customers by selling additional solutions such as our lending and leasing, digital account opening and data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management solutions. In addition, our revenues from existing customers continue to grow as these customers increase the number of End Users on our solutions and as the number of transactions these End Users perform on our solutions increases. We believe our recent investments in digital lending, leasing, BaaS, digital account opening and data-driven sales enablement and portfolio management, and other innovative solutions will help our customers expand their relationships with us by allowing them to more efficiently sell and market additional services and solutions to their End Users. 10 Table of Contents Continue to expand our solutions offerings and enhance our platform: We believe our history of innovation distinguishes us in the market, and we intend to continue to invest in our software development efforts and introduce new solutions that are largely informed by and aligned with the business objectives of our existing and new customers. For example, in June 2017, we introduced Q2 BaaS (previously known as Q2 Open), a portfolio of open API financial services which are designed to allow RCFIs, Alt-FIs and FinTechs to develop and support their own digital financial services and solutions more quickly and cost-effectively. Q2 BaaS additionally provides an opportunity for our RCFI customers to partner with Alt-FIs and FinTechs in providing innovative digital services and solutions to meet evolving End-User demands. In October 2018, we acquired Cloud Lending Solutions, or Cloud Lending. With the Cloud Lending acquisition, we added to our portfolio of solutions an end-to-end digital lending and leasing platform which allows RCFIs, Alt-FIs and FinTechs to automate and digitize lending and leasing related activities. In November 2018, we acquired Gro Solutions, or Gro. With the Gro acquisition, we added Q2 Gro to our portfolio of solutions, a digital online account opening and sales and marketing platform which enables customers to make personalized recommendations and cross-sell banking products, such as deposit accounts and loans. In October 2019, we acquired Lender Performance Group, LLC, or PrecisionLender. With the PrecisionLender acquisition, we added to our portfolio of solutions PrecisionLender's data-driven sales enablement, pricing and portfolio management platform to support commercial lending for financial institutions globally, as well as Andi, a digital enterprise coach powered by machine learning. Selectively pursue acquisitions and strategic investments: In addition to continuing to develop our solutions organically, we regularly evaluate strategic opportunities, such as our acquisitions of Centrix, Social Money, Unbill, Cloud Lending, Gro and PrecisionLender. We anticipate that we will continue to selectively pursue acquisitions of and strategic investments in technologies that will strengthen and expand the features and functionality of our solutions and provide access to new customers and new markets. The Q2 Solutions We design and develop our solutions with a platform approach intended to provide comprehensive integration between our solution offerings and our customers' internal and third-party systems. This integrated approach allows our customers to deliver a unified and robust financial experience across digital channels. We leverage the benefits of our open platform to provide our customers the following solutions: Digital Banking Platform Our digital banking platform allows RCFIs to offer a comprehensive and unified suite of digital banking services to their End Users. Our open platform architecture, deep integration with other systems and the multi-tenant aspects of our infrastructure, enable us to develop digital banking solutions that allow our customers to harness the power of the information within their other systems to gain greater insights and to improve the overall security of their End Users and themselves. To date, a substantial majority of our revenues continue to result from sales of our digital banking platform to RCFIs. Our digital banking platform provides our customers with the following benefits: single-login and multi-layered security across channels and devices; deep integration with numerous other internal and third-party systems; single interface to an FI's core transaction processing and other systems of record; unified End-User experience and consistent workflows, languages and data; rapid configurability, development and deployment of new features and functionality; comprehensive view of End-User activity across channels and devices; platform wide operational, administrative and customer experience/success reporting; and flexible, predictive branding and personalization. 11 Table of Contents We provide the following digital banking platform solutions: Solution Features Q2 Digital Banking and Transactions - Q2 UUX Browser-based digital banking solution Unified and robust financial experience across digital channels Comprehensive RCFI-branded digital banking capabilities such as account access, check balancing, funds transfers, bill pay, recurring payments processing, statement viewing and new products and service applications Support for single and batch ACH processing, payroll, state and federal tax payments and domestic and international wires Management functionality such as End-User enrollment, password management, permissions, rights management, reports, integrated security as well as feature assignment for digital banking Q2mobility App Mobile and tablet digital banking solution Enables consumer and commercial End Users to access, engage and complete banking transactions such as adding and managing payees, transferring funds, executing single or recurring payments for multiple bank accounts, viewing e-statements or check images and managing other general banking services from their Apple iOS or Android-enabled mobile or tablet device Native functionality for mobile and tablet devices such as touch, camera and geolocation to enhance the digital banking experience of End Users Q2mobile Remote Deposit Capture Partnered solution that allows remote check deposit capture utilizing End Users' camera-ready mobile and tablet devices Q2 Person-to-Person Payments Partnered integrated person-to-person payments solution that gives End Users the ability to pay anyone quickly, easily and securely, from any device Q2 Business Solutions Advanced digital banking solutions deliver a flexible, efficient, and positive experience for all types of business users, from sole proprietors to enterprise-level account holders Allows commercial End Users to more efficiently manage and execute higher volume and more complex transactions by restricting transactions based on accounts, subsidiaries, approval levels, End-User roles, date and time as well as geographic location Advanced reporting designed to help RCFIs deliver key business information to commercial End Users Q2 Sentinel Real-time security analytics solution designed to help RCFIs detect and block suspect transactions Behavioral analytics and policy-based decision prompts for RCFI administrators Continuous learning of End-User behaviors while providing an analysis of transaction activity via easy-to-use case management tools supporting either the authorization or interruption of transactions Q2 Patrol Event-driven validation product designed to mitigate certain high-risk, non-transactional fraudulent activity Behavioral machine learning designed to identify fraudulent digital banking sessions Analyzes past login behavior and device details, including IP addresses, geolocation, device type, time stamps and more to create a digital footprint for each End User Enhances security by requiring End Users to further authenticate a digital banking session if that session is deemed suspect based on abnormal behavioral login and device detail Supplies session details in the End-User interface to better involve End Users in their own account safety Reporting for regulatory compliance and risk reduction Q2 SMART Targeting and messaging platform that allows RCFIs to analyze End-User data utilizing machine learning and statistical analysis designed to identify opportunities to grow their End-User relationships with targeted offerings based on specific End-User behavior Multichannel approach to identify traits across a broad range of End-User behavioral patterns to help RCFIs create new End-User campaigns, conversations and offers based on specific End-User behaviors Recommendation engine to determine which products an End User is most likely to adopt Summarizes End User behavioral data using clear and easily understood metrics, graphs and charts that are updated daily and presented through an intuitive End-User interface Q2 Contextual PFM Allows End Users to easily add external accounts and view them together with internal accounts on their digital banking home page Allows financial institutions the ability to offer End Users simplified transaction descriptions and automatic categorization across their internally and externally held accounts Enables financial institutions to better understand End Users' consumer financial data, analytics, and behaviors Allow End Users to view their personal data in a variety of ways, such as budgets, spending, net worth, debts, and trends Q2 Goals Enables End Users to establish and save towards specific savings goals Allows End Users to easily track their progress and activity towards achieving their savings goals Provides financial institutions visibility into End Users' savings goals enabling them to assess additional opportunities to offer additional financial services to assist such End Users Q2 CardSwap Allows RCFIs who issue debit or credit cards to enable End Users receiving newly issued cards to automatically change their payment information with existing subscription and digital point-of-sale services, which have previously been set up for payment with a different card Assists End Users with compromised card replacement 12 Table of Contents Q2 Gro Digital account opening and digital sales and marketing platform that drives customer acquisition growth across digital channels Enables RCFIs to make personalized recommendations and cross-sell banking products, such as deposit accounts and loans, to both retail and business End Users Combines advanced, multichannel account opening with targeted marketing capabilities as well as a shopping cart experience Q2 Caliper Software Development Kit Tools, knowledge, and access necessary to customize and extend our digital banking platform Enables the development and integration of workflows in the Q2 development environment through open APIs Q2 Biller Direct Bill payment solution that aggregates End Users' bills and payments into a single view, enabling bill presentment, aggregation and bill pay functionality Q2 Partner Marketplace Online marketplace of pre-integrated third-party applications RCFI's can offer to their End Users and for which they can receive a portion of the End-User fees Centrix Dispute Tracking System Electronic transaction dispute management solution Assists in the administration of disputed electronic transactions (debit card, ATM, ACH and remittance transfers) for the purpose of compliance with Regulation E of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act Includes an optional Fraud Alerts module which allows customers to quickly and accurately measure the financial impact of data breaches involving card payments Centrix Payments I.Q. System ACH file monitoring and risk reporting solution Simple and intuitive analytical reporting of both originated and inbound ACH activity, while also safeguarding against ACH fraud with calendaring and real-time validation of originated files Centrix Exact/Transaction Management System Fraud prevention tool focused on the transaction management needs of commercial End Users Encompasses check positive pay with payee match, ACH positive pay and full account reconciliation Lending and Leasing Solutions Cloud Lending Solutions Our Q2 Cloud Lending, or CL, digital lending and leasing platform is a cloud-based, end-to-end lending and leasing solution that allows RCFIs, Alt-FIs and FinTechs to automate and digitize their lending and leasing activities, supporting digital lending and leasing applications, scoring, underwriting, servicing and collections for multiple assets classes. The CL digital lending and leasing platform allows RCFIs, Alt-FIs and FinTechs to originate and service a wide range of loan types including online, consumer, commercial, small business and marketplace, or peer-to-peer, loans, and leases. The CL digital lending and leasing platform utilizes the Force.com platform and includes the following distinct solutions, which RCFIs and Alt-FIs can use as a complete package or individually to supplement existing operations: Solution Features Q2 CL Portal Configurable front-end portal that provides a differentiated borrowing experience for consumer, commercial and small business loans for borrowers, investors and stakeholders Q2 CL Originate Customer-centric, agile loan origination and underwriting solution Designed to meet the needs of consumer, commercial, small business, marketplace, or peer-to-peer, lending, and equipment leasing Manages the entire origination and underwriting process including loan file management, workflows, auto-decisioning, parties management, credit memo, credit analysis, approvals and covenants Q2 CL Loan Loan servicing application that automates loan billing, payments, collections, and accounting within one robust, flexible, and secure platform Manages portfolios, increases transaction volume, and rapidly brings new products to market Q2 CL Lease Agile, customer-centric, cloud-based lease servicing application that enables lessors to efficiently service equipment leases Automates operations, manages and tracks multiple assets in a single lease, and manages repossessions and returns Integrates the work of collection agents, repossession agents, equipment resellers, and dealers Allows for automation to apply fees, calculate taxes, and collect payments through ACH and credit cards Q2 CL Marketplace Cloud-based marketplace application designed to handle the complexities of managing the entire online marketplace, or peer-to-peer, loan cycle, including online origination, loan fractionalization, servicing and managing multiple investor portfolios Q2 CL Collections Customer-centric collections application that enables lenders to define and automate collection strategies, optimize customer interaction across channels, lower risk, and reduce technical and operational costs Allows lenders to track customer interactions, set priorities and optimize workloads Q2 PPP Paycheck Protection Program and Loan Forgiveness solution for lenders participating in the U.S. Small Business Administration Paycheck Protection Program, or PPP Manages the entire origination, underwriting and loan forgiveness process for PPP loans including loan file management, workflows, auto-decisioning, parties management, credit analysis and approvals 13 Table of Contents PrecisionLender Solutions Our PrecisionLender platform is a cloud-based, data-driven sales enablement, pricing and portfolio management solution that allows financial institutions globally to more effectively structure and negotiate commercial lending transactions. During the commercial lending negotiation process, the PrecisionLender platform analyzes a financial institution's entire commercial End-User portfolio, and individual commercial End-User relationships, in addition to other external market information, to assess the performance of the portfolio and relationships. Based on such analysis, PrecisionLender provides commercial bankers with actionable insights by highlighting potential concerns and identifying potential opportunities, ultimately allowing them to more efficiently and effectively price, negotiate and close commercial loans. The PrecisionLender platform user experience is enhanced by Andi, a digital enterprise coach powered by machine learning. The PrecisionLender platform includes the following distinct solutions: Solution Features PrecisionLender Platform Cloud-based loan pricing and negotiation functionality that provides commercial and small business relationship managers with actionable insights based on analysis of their commercial and small business account holder portfolios to efficiently and effectively price and structure commercial loans, deposits and other fee-based banking services Data Studio Managed and configured data environment that provides in depth analysis and reporting of a financial institution's commercial and small business account portfolios, enabling commercial and small business relationship managers to assess performance trends as well as identify cross-sales and other opportunities for improvement Andi Configurable digital enterprise coach powered by machine learning which accompanies the commercial and small business relationship manager throughout the commercial and small business loan structuring, negotiating and pricing process, making recommendations along the way leveraging the real-time analysis being performed by the PrecisionLender Platform BaaS Solutions In June 2017, we introduced Q2 BaaS (formerly known as Q2 Open), a portfolio of open API financial services which are designed to allow RCFIs, Alt-FIs and FinTechs to develop and support their own applications and digital financial services. Q2 BaaS additionally provides an opportunity for our RCFI customers to partner with Alt-FIs and FinTechs in providing new innovative digital financial services to meet evolving consumer expectations. Q2 BaaS is an open API portfolio which allows development-capable organizations to build front-end interfaces and experiences on top of Q2 BaaS API infrastructure: Solution Features Q2 CorePro API An agile, cloud-based core processor that provides API tools, supporting functionality designed to enable financial institutions, Alt-FIs and FinTechs to develop applications offering federally insured deposit accounts, leveraging a system of record for ledgering banking transactions including access to ACH payments and branded debit cards integrated into Visa or MasterCard networks. Implementation and Customer Support We seek to deepen and grow our customer relationships by providing consistent, high-quality implementation and customer support services, which we believe drive higher customer retention and incremental sales opportunities within our existing customer base. We structure our implementation teams to effectively collaborate with the management and technology teams of our customers ensuring the rapid deployment and effective utilization of our solutions. Under certain circumstances for our digital lending and leasing solutions, we partner with third-party professional system integrators to support our customers in the installation and configuration process. These implementation teams develop and execute a coordinated implementation plan for our customers centered around five standard phases of IT transformation projects: initiation, configuration, application testing, limited production and production. Our customer support personnel serve the comprehensive support-related needs of our customers. Due to the highly-regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry, our implementation and customer support service teams, including any third-party professional system integrators with which we partner, must be knowledgeable about our solutions and the regulatory environment in which our customers are required to operate. 14 Table of Contents Partner Offerings Our customers are reliant on an ever-growing ecosystem of third-party digital solutions to complement their financial services offerings and we provide a broad range of tools to help our customers efficiently bring them to market. The flexible nature of our solutions, along with an internally developed, highly flexible set of integration tools allows us to build rapid integrations with our customers' internal and third-party systems to support End-User activities and customer processes. These integration tools connect with a wide variety of third-party applications, allowing us to seamlessly integrate with our customers' internal and third-party systems such as account services, payments and imaging. Our ability to integrate with these systems enables our customers to offer a comprehensive set of consumer and commercial functionality to their End Users. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing organization is responsible for growing our customer base and maintaining and expanding relationships with our existing customers. We sell our solutions primarily through our direct sales organization but also through partnerships for select solutions and global regions. Our direct sales organization consists of experienced sales professionals who are organized by geography, account size, type of market and whether a prospect is a new or existing customer. Customers are assigned a dedicated representative to provide ongoing assistance in the execution of the customer's digital strategy to meet the needs of its End Users. Our sales representatives are supported by our solutions consulting and sales operations teams. Our marketing team complements our sales organization through integrated programs for demand creation, pipeline acceleration, customer expansion and brand advocacy. While the financial institution market is well-defined due to the regulatory classification of financial institutions, the Alt-FI and FinTech markets are broader and more difficult to define due to the changing number of providers in each market. We focus our marketing efforts on sponsorships, highly-targeted tradeshows, publications, digital newsletters, digital advertising, account-based marketing, as well as referral agreements with strategic industry partners. Our marketing team also conducts primary research to support our industry thought leadership and to identify emerging trends in End-User behavior and digital activities. Our marketing programs primarily target digital transformation, technology, finance, operations and marketing executives as well as senior business leaders. Research and Development Our focus on innovation has fueled our growth and enables us to provide our customers secure, cloud-based digital solutions that transform the ways in which traditional and emerging financial service providers engage with End Users. We allocate significant resources to developing and improving our solutions to meet our customers' evolving needs. We monitor and test our solutions regularly, and we maintain a disciplined release process to enhance our existing solutions and introduce new capabilities without interrupting service delivery. We follow state-of-the-art practices in software development and design, including using modern programming languages, data storage systems and other tools. Our multi-tiered architecture enables us to scale, add and modify features quickly in response to changing market dynamics, customer needs and regulatory requirements. Our platform approach supports rapid development and deployment of new features to address evolving market needs. We also enable customers to address their market-specific needs via our extension and integration frameworks, which is a key aspect of our technology strategy. Technology and Operations Due to the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry, our digital banking platform combines both multi-tenant and single instance aspects. This structure is designed to maximize End-User data security and minimize compliance cost and risks. Our solutions utilize a multi-tiered architecture that allows for scalability, operational simplicity, security and disaster recovery. We have also developed an internal operations and analytics platform that aggregates and leverages customer instance and End-User experience captured within our solutions to drive future innovation and scale. We serve our digital banking platform customers from two secure, third-party, American National Standards Institute Tier 4 data center facilities, one located in Carrollton, Texas and the other located in Austin, Texas. Both data centers are operated by the same third-party provider. Our digital lending and leasing and BaaS solutions are hosted by cloud-based hosting services, including Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure. We believe that our current data centers have sufficient capacity to meet our anticipated growth for the foreseeable future. Although we utilize a third party to manage our data center facilities for our digital banking platform, we manage the hardware and software on which our digital banking platform operates. We utilize industry standard hardware in resilient configurations to minimize service interruptions, and regularly consider and implement improvements to enhance the resiliency of our services, including our recent improvements to actively distribute services across both data centers. As a result of these improvements, our network infrastructure is fully redundant within each of our data centers, including network teaming to provide network redundancy that includes multiple upstream Internet connections. We have also purchased a private block of IP address space to simplify and expedite our disaster recovery management operations for our digital banking platform customers. 15 Table of Contents Our digital banking platform has had average uptime in excess of 99.9% since January 2013. We actively monitor our infrastructure 24x7 for any sign of failure, and we seek to take preemptive action to minimize and prevent downtime. Our data centers employ advanced measures to ensure physical integrity and security, including redundant power from multiple substations and cooling systems, fire and flood prevention mechanisms, continual security coverage and biometric readers at entry points as well as perimeter boundary security measures. We have also implemented extensive disaster recovery measures and continue to invest in data center and other technical infrastructure. All End Users are authenticated, authorized and validated before they can access our solutions. End Users must have, at a minimum, a valid user ID and associated password. Many of our customers also employ other authentication methods such as out-of-band one-time password delivery to log on to our solutions and hardware cryptographic tokens to authorize transactions. Our layered security model allows different groups of End Users to have different levels of access to our solutions. Our solutions' vulnerability is tested using internal tools prior to release, and an independent third party performs penetration and vulnerability tests on our solutions periodically. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secrets and copyright laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2020, we had nine U.S. patent applications pending and four issued U.S. patents, with expiration dates ranging from October 2027 to January 2038. Despite substantial investment in research and development activities, we have not focused on patents and patent applications historically. We license third-party technologies, such as bill pay technologies, that are incorporated into some of our solutions. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective. It may be possible for other parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use the content of our solutions without authorization. Failure to protect our proprietary rights adequately could significantly harm our competitive position and operating results. Operating companies as well as other opportunistic patent and trademark holders, some of whom own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, seek to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses to their intellectual property, including through litigation, or threats of litigation, based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received in the past, and will likely in the future, receive notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties' intellectual property rights. There may be intellectual property rights held by others, including issued or pending patents and trademarks that cover significant aspects of our solutions. Any intellectual property claim against us, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management's attention and other resources. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using solutions found to be in violation of another party's rights. We might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing solutions, which could require significant effort and expense and which we may not be able to perform efficiently or at all. If we cannot license the intellectual property at issue or develop non-infringing solutions for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our Competition The market for digital solutions for financial services providers is highly competitive. We compete with new and established point solution vendors, core processing vendors, as well as internally developed solutions. We believe that the comprehensive integration among our solution offerings and our customers' internal and third-party systems, combined with our deep industry expertise, reputation for consistent, high-quality customer support, and our unified cloud-based digital banking, digital lending and leasing and BaaS solutions distinguish us from the competition. We currently compete with providers of technology and services in the financial services industry, including point system vendors and core processing vendors, as well as systems internally developed by financial services providers. With respect to our digital banking platform, we have a number of point solution competitors, including NCR Corporation, or NCR, nCino, Inc., Alkami Technology, Inc. and Kony, Inc. (acquired by Temenos AG in September 2019) in the online, consumer and small business banking space and Finastra, ACI Worldwide, Inc. and Bottomline Technologies (de), Inc. in the commercial banking space. We also compete with core processing vendors that provide systems and services such as Fiserv, Inc., Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. and Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., or FIS. With respect to our lending and leasing platform, we compete against a number of point system competitors, including Abrigo, Baker Hill Solutions, LLC, Fair Isaac Corporation, nCino, Inc., Finastra, Moody's Analytics, Inc., Brilliance Financial Technology, Oracle Corporation, Temenos AG, and core processing vendors, including FIS and Fiserv. With respect to our BaaS solutions, due to the vast number of potential use cases and customer segments, the list of potential competitors is extremely broad and varied, but includes companies across the retail banking, financial services, transaction processing, consumer technology and financial technology services industries. 16 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, may devote greater resources to the promotion, sale and support of their systems than we can, have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In addition, many of our competitors expend more funds on research and development. Although we compete with point system vendors and core processing vendors, we also partner with some of these vendors for certain data and services utilized in our solutions and receive referrals from them. In addition, certain of our customers have or can obtain the ability to create their own in-house systems, and while many of these systems have difficulties scaling and providing an integrated platform, we still face challenges displacing in-house systems and retaining customers that choose to develop an in-house system. We believe the principal competitive factors for our solutions in the financial services markets we serve include the following: alignment with the missions of our customers; ability to provide a single platform for consumer and commercial End Users; full-feature functionality across digital channels; ability to integrate targeted offers for End Users across digital channels; ability to support financial institutions in acquiring deposits with open API technologies; SaaS delivery and pricing model; ability to support both internal and external developers to quickly integrate with third-party applications and systems utilizing a software development kit; design of the End-User experience, including modern, intuitive and touch-centric features; configurability and branding capabilities for customers; familiarity of workflows and terminology and feature-on-demand functionality; integrated multi-layered security and compliance of solutions with regulatory requirements; quality of implementation, integration and support services; domain expertise and innovation in financial services technology; ability to innovate and respond to customer needs rapidly; and rate of development, deployment and enhancement of solutions. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors within the financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech markets we serve, but we expect competition to continue and increase as existing competitors continue to evolve their offerings and as new companies enter our market. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing, customer support and our business operations generally. People As of December 31, 2020, we had 1,751 employees, of which 1,749 are full time employees, 1,520 were employed in the United States, and 231 were employed outside of the United States. We consider our current relationship with our employees to be good. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are a party to a collective bargaining agreement. People are at the center of everything we do. Our mission is to build stronger and more diverse communities by strengthening their financial institutions. Our employees are paramount to our success, and our founders have created a set of principles to help guide us to be ethical and accountable to our customers, partners, communities we serve, each other and other stakeholders in achieving our mission. To ensure our success, we continually endeavor to create and implement employee programs that inspire learning, improve well-being and reward performance. Our current programs focus on the following key human capital measures and objectives: 17 Table of Contents Diversity, Equity and Inclusion As a global company, we embrace the diversity of our employees, partners, customers, other stakeholders and the communities we collectively serve. We believe that consideration of differing points of view, including unique backgrounds, experiences and talents, is critical to our success. We are building diversity, equity and inclusion into our culture with a focus on creating environments and practices that mitigate bias and allow our employees to be their best. Based on information provided by our employees who opted to self-identify, representing the vast majority of our employees, our employee population as of December 31, 2020 reflected the following: Women Non-White (1) Overall 35% 26% Director-level employees and above 23% 17% ___________________________________________________________________________ (1) Excludes the impact of our Bangalore, India operations. Our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts highlight: promoting an equal opportunity work environment that enables employees to feel safe to express their ideas and perspectives and where they feel they belong; educating employees and leaders to recognize where bias exists and building practices to combat its impact; recruiting, developing and retaining diverse top talent; and reinforcing our commitment by supporting external community-based diversity and inclusion-focused causes and organizations. In fiscal 2020, we created and launched a diversity-focused council of 11 employees of color, sponsored by our Chief Executive Officer, to help guide us in implementing a more comprehensive diversity and inclusion strategy. Key to this strategy, in 2021 we plan to hire our first full-time leader of diversity, equity and inclusion. We are also investing in a more robust procurement and vendor management function to better promote diversity within our suppliers and partners and are adding a role that will focus on improving diversity in our employee recruiting pipeline and results. Externally, we are partnering with Austin's African American Leadership Institute development program in their mission to enhance civic awareness and leadership opportunities to make an innovative community impact on Central Texas. Employee Engagement and Culture Since our inception, our culture has been rooted in our mission to build stronger and more diverse communities by strengthening the financial institutions that serve them. We believe our passion, dedication and commitment towards this mission is a significant differentiator for us with our customers and employees. Our culture is demonstrated and shared through our employee traditions and customs and daily engagements among our employees and with our customers. We live our essential mission of supporting communities through active community support with volunteerism and financial support. We partner with local non-profits that align to our employees' passions with hands-on and virtual volunteering, providing care and impact to communities across the globe. Additionally, we use technology and online tools, such as YourCause, to help promote volunteer opportunities for individual employees and teams. We reward our employees for their service with donation dollars to share back with non-profits of their choice. Listening to our employees is a core component to our employee engagement strategy. Being able to understand the needs, preferences and general feedback of our Q2 employees is critical to the design of our People programs. We gather these insights through frequent pulse-style surveys on a range of topics as well as an annual world-wide employee engagement survey conducted by an external vendor. Each year, our leadership team considers the feedback from our employee engagement surveys, both positive and constructive, and focuses on making employee-suggested changes to become an even better place to work. We are proud to have been recognized as a highlighted employer through the Austin American-Stateman's "Top Places to Work" for the past ten years based upon our employees' satisfaction ratings. Our Charlotte, North Carolina operations have received similar recognition as a "Best Place to Work" by the Charlotte Business Journal for the last six years. 18 Table of Contents Our culture is visible across our organization and highlighted through a host of initiatives, programs and committees including the following: our portfolio of company-wide events and forums that foster connections to the organization and one another; our employee volunteer committees focused on culture, wellness, and charitable causes help create opportunities for employees to support causes to make a difference in the workplace and local communities; our workspaces and virtual workspace resources that reinforce our mission and guiding principles and promote a collaborative, high-energy work environment that helps facilitate team-based problem solving and cross-departmental learning; and our new-hire employee orientations that help new employees understand our business, culture, mission and values. To create a culture of teamwork and rewards, we support a range of recognition programs. One of our most utilized programs is a points-based rewards system that allows our employees to highlight successes and give thanks to individuals and teams across the organization. We encourage the engagement of peer-to-peer recognition and showcase our wins, while we utilize Q2's guiding principles as a framework to recognize the behaviors we expect our employees to model. We provide other meaningful opportunities for recognition that emphasize our commitments to each other and our customers, including our Circle of Awesomeness recognition program which awards our outstanding sales and non-sales employees based on employee and customer nominations with sizable awards, which have included company-paid group vacations and team events among other items. In January 2021, we also announced our agreement with Austin FC, Austin's new Major League Soccer team, to be the exclusive naming rights partner for their home stadium in Austin, now called Q2 Stadium. Our agreement with Austin FC will enhance our brand within Austin and globally and enable a variety of unique and exciting opportunities for us to engage our employees, customers, partners and communities. Learning and Development We recognize the importance of employees developing and progressing in their careers, starting on their first day with our robust new-hire employee orientation and thoughtful onboarding plans, which are designed to give employees a successful beginning of their Q2 careers. Once employees are onboarded, we then look at the ways in which their skills and careers can further develop at Q2. We provide a variety of resources to help our employees grow in their current roles and build new skills, including a wide variety of development resources and courses through on-demand as well as facilitated learning opportunities. We emphasize individual and team development planning as part of our annual goal-setting process. We believe leading our employees is one of the greatest acts of trust we can provide, and accordingly all managers go through training to enable them to effectively perform as leaders. We offer leadership development resources and programs for all leaders at all experience levels, have created leadership competencies based on our guiding principles to help frame our leadership development programs and continue to build tools to continually advance leaders' capabilities to develop and scale their teams. Globally, we are invested in higher education through internship programs that target colleges and universities. We annually host dozens of interns across various of our geographies with immersive training and on-the-job learning opportunities across a broad set of functions. Talent Acquisition We work diligently to attract the best talent from a diverse range of sources to meet the current and future demands of our business. We have established relationships with world-class universities, including historically black colleges and universities, or HBCUs, professional associations and industry groups to proactively attract talent. We have a strong employee value proposition that leverages our unique mission-driven culture, collaborative working environment and exciting growth opportunity to attract talent. We leverage multiple resources specifically targeting diversity of candidates in our recruiting pipeline, and we are making investments to help us reduce or mitigate any unconscious bias that exists in the recruiting process. We continue to focus on talent development to broaden and enable our recruiting and leadership teams to advise and deploy even more inclusive recruitment practices. 19 Table of Contents Compensation and Benefits Our compensation programs are designed to provide a compensation package that will attract, retain, motivate and reward superior employees who must operate in a fast paced, highly-competitive, and technologically-challenging environment. We seek to do this by linking annual changes in compensation to overall Company performance, as well as each individual's contribution to the results achieved. The emphasis on overall Company performance is intended to align the employee's financial interests with the interests of our stockholders, particularly as it relates to our long-term incentive plans. We are committed to fair pay and strive to be externally competitive while ensuring internal equity across our organization, considering roles, relative experience and performance. We conduct global pay equity assessments and compensation reviews, and we are actively working to reduce unconscious bias in our hiring practices, performance reviews and promotion opportunities that may contribute to pay inequities. We are committed to providing comprehensive benefit options, and it is our intention to offer benefits that will allow our employees and their families to live healthier and more secure lives. Some examples of our wide-ranging global benefits offered are: 401(k) retirement plan and pension plans, including employer contributions; medical insurance, prescription drug benefits, dental insurance, vision insurance, accident insurance, critical illness insurance, life insurance, disability insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, legal insurance and pet insurance. Employee Well-Being We are committed to the health, safety and well-being of our employees. In addition to traditional employee benefits, we offer a number of innovative benefits to support the physical, mental and financial health of our employees. These include, among many other things: onsite and virtual wellness clinics and classes; online tools that assist employees with their physical and mental health; and special events with outside vendors and participants focusing on employee well-being. We also provide global access to an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) providing our employees and anyone living in their household with access to a variety of resources, including mental health and counseling, work life balance and online legal resources. COVID-19 Measures Since March 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic nearly all of our employees have worked remotely from home. With this transition we began providing a variety of additional resources and benefits to help our employees effectively navigate the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic as it relates to their physical, financial and mental well-being, as well as their productivity. The primary goal of these additional measures has been to create an environment where our employees feel safe and secure and are allowed the grace and flexibility to adapt to the new demands brought about by this pandemic experience. We have provided opportunities for more flexible work schedules, which has helped employees manage the challenges of unplanned at-home childcare and virtual schooling and conflicting at-home work schedules of other household members. We implemented a COVID day off program creating multiple extra global holidays for employees, affording them extra time to attend to personal matters. Additionally, we offered monthly financial stipends to all employees globally to assist them and their households with the extra expenses of at-home work, education and well-being. We also launched the Q2@home employer-paid benefit to enhance our employees' at-home work experience, providing them with a selection of ergonomic office furniture. We have implemented a number of other benefits and cultural enhancements in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including: employer-paid access to virtual meditation resources; employer-paid telehealth for eligible U.S. employees; increased flexibility for employees to change contributions to flexible spending accounts; elimination of deductibles for COVID-related benefits claims for eligible U.S. employees; increased COVID-related health coverage for certain eligible non-U.S. employees; new virtual physical therapy benefit for eligible U.S. employees; and increased variety and amount of virtual culture events ranging from exercise classes, cooking classes, book clubs, musical performances, DJ dance parties, to coffees and cocktails with senior leaders. 20 Table of Contents Government Regulation As a technology service provider to banks and credit unions in the United States, we are not required to be chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration or other federal or state agencies that regulate or supervise our customers and other providers of financial services in the United States. Our customers and prospects are subject to extensive and complex regulations and oversight by federal, state and other regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and affect the conduct of our customers' operations and, as a result, our business. Our solutions must enable our customers to comply with applicable requirements such as the following: the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act; the Electronic Funds Transfer Act; Mobile Banking Guidance; the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act; federal, state and other usury laws; the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLBA; the EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR; laws against unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices; the Privacy of Consumer Financial Information regulations; the Guidance on Supervision of Technology Services Providers promulgated by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, or FFIEC; the Guidance on Outsourcing Technology Services promulgated by the FFIEC; and other federal, state and international laws and regulations. We are subject to periodic examination by banking regulators under the authority of the FFIEC under its Guidance on the Supervision of Technology Services Providers and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, and federal, state and other laws that apply to technology service providers as a result of the services we provide to the institutions and entities they regulate. As an independent technology service provider, we are examined by federal financial regulators on a rotating basis. These examinations are based on guidance from the FFIEC, which is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards and report forms for the examination of financial institutions and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the supervision of financial institutions. The examinations cover a wide variety of subjects, including our management, acquisition and development activities, support and delivery, IT audits, as well as our disaster preparedness and business recovery planning. The banking regulators that make up the FFIEC have broad supervisory authority to remedy any shortcomings identified in an examination. Following an examination, our financial institutions customers may request an executive summary of the examination through their lead examination agency. The Dodd-Frank Act granted the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, authority to promulgate rules and interpret certain federal consumer financial protection laws, some of which apply to the solutions we offer. In certain circumstances, the CFPB also has examination and supervision powers with respect to service providers who provide a material service to a financial institution offering consumer financial products and services. The compliance of our solutions with these requirements depends on a variety of factors, including the functionality and design of our solutions, the classification of our customers, and the manner in which our customers and their End Users utilize our solutions. In order to comply with our obligations under these laws, we are required to implement operating policies and procedures to protect the privacy and security of our customers' and their End Users' information and to undergo periodic audits and examinations. 21 Table of Contents Privacy and Information Safeguard Laws In the ordinary course of our business, we and our customers using our solutions access and transmit certain types of data, which subjects us and our customers to certain privacy and information security laws in the United States and internationally, including, for example, GLBA and GDPR, and other laws or rules designed to regulate consumer information and mitigate identity theft. We are also subject to privacy laws of various states. These laws impose obligations with respect to the collection, processing, storage, disposal, use and disclosure of personal information, and require that financial services providers have in place policies regarding information privacy and security. In addition, under certain of these laws, we must provide notice to consumers of our policies and practices for sharing nonpublic information with third parties, provide advance notice of any changes to our policies and, with limited exceptions, give consumers the right to prevent use of their nonpublic personal information and disclosure of it to unaffiliated third parties. Certain of these laws may, in some circumstances, require us to notify affected individuals of security breaches of computer databases that contain their personal information. These laws may also require us to notify relevant law enforcement, regulators or consumer reporting agencies in the event of a data breach, as well as businesses and governmental agencies that own data. In order to comply with the privacy and information safeguard laws, we have confidentiality and information security standards and procedures in place for our business activities and our third-party vendors and service providers. Privacy and information security laws evolve regularly, requiring us to adjust our compliance program on an ongoing basis and presenting compliance challenges. Available Information Our website address is https://q2.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available through the investor relations page of our Internet website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to the SEC. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those described below, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our principal risks include risks associated with: the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects; our ability to manage our rapid growth; the development of and changes to the market for our solutions compared to our expectations; focusing on the financial services industry and any geographies where we have customer concentration; managing implementation of a higher volume of or more complex configurations of our solutions; customer acceptance of and satisfaction with our existing and new solutions; intense competition in the markets we serve; integration of our solutions with and reliance by our solutions on third-party systems or services; security breaches and defects or errors in our solutions; failures associated with payment transactions; customer training and customer support; evolving technological requirements and enhancements and additions to our solution offerings; our sales and marketing capabilities, including partner relationships and the length, cost and unpredictability of our sales cycle; dependency on our management team and other key employees and recruiting and retaining key employees; 22 Table of Contents international operations; mergers and acquisitions; our ability to secure sufficient additional financing; our revenue recognition method and the relative impacts of changes in subscription rates on implementation costs; quarterly fluctuations in our operating results relative to our expectations and guidance and the accuracy of our forecasts and the market data we use; our history of net operating losses and our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards; the unpredictability of customer subscription renewals or adoption; our profit margins and the unpredictability of End-User adoption and usage, and customer implementation and support requirements; changes in financial accounting standards or practices; maintaining proper and effective internal controls and producing accurate and timely financial statements; sales taxes on our solutions; accounting for our convertible notes; regulations applicable to us, our customers and our solutions and the impacts of any violation of these regulations; litigation or threats of litigation; protecting our intellectual property; "open source" software in our solutions; expenses and administrative burdens as a public company; the dilutive effects of future sales, or anticipation of future sales, of our common stock; unfavorable or misleading research by industry analysts; our stock price volatility and historical policy of no dividends; anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law; dilution to our stockholders resulting from raising capital or using equity for acquisitions; and our convertible notes and related hedge, warrant and capped call transactions. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic Uncertain and weakened economic conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic are adversely affecting our industry, business and results of operations, and the extent to which the pandemic and measures taken in response thereto may impact our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition is uncertain and difficult to predict. Global health concerns stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions have caused significant disruption to the global economic environment and significantly increased economic uncertainty. In response to the pandemic, government authorities have implemented numerous measures to try to contain the spread of the disease, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place or total lock-down orders and business limitations and shutdowns. More recently, various vaccines have become available on a limited basis offering hope for potential progress in controlling the pandemic and an eventual return to normal. However, to date the availability of the vaccine has been relatively limited. 23 Table of Contents The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely impacting our customers and our business, but the long-term extent of such impacts is highly uncertain and difficult to predict. While we believe that to date our business continuity and pandemic plans are operating effectively and that we have been able to operate and provide services to our customers under the circumstances, if we are not able to respond to and manage these impacts and related changes effectively, our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition will continue to be adversely impacted. Moreover, even after the pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to our business, results of operation and financial condition as a result of the virus' global economic impact, including reduced spending, lower economic activity and weakened banking and financial systems. For example, the spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including restricting employee travel, developing social distancing plans for our employees and cancelling physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers and business partners. While we believe these actions are reasonable and necessary as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, they have resulted in disruptions to our normal business operations. There is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus or will otherwise be satisfactory to government authorities. Although we have taken steps to try to protect the health of our employees in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the continued spread of the virus may increase the risk that one or more of our key employees or other significant portions of our workforce become temporarily or permanently unavailable. Nearly all of our employees, and many of the employees of our customers and third-party providers on which we depend, are currently working remotely and have been since early March 2020 due to government work and travel restrictions, and we currently have no firm plans to begin having employees return to onsite work. Implementation services can be more challenging when being performed by our employees remotely in conjunction with customers and third-party providers whose employees also may be working remotely. Additionally, third party providers of hardware, services and software have been, and may continue to be negatively impacted or cease operating as a result of operational and economic challenges triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Any failures or delays in our systems or resources, including as a result of operational constraints or increased online banking activity triggered by government shelter-in-place or similar orders or demand related to government stimulus programs related to the COVID-19 pandemic, could cause service interruptions or impaired system performance. This may impair or delay our ability to sell our solutions, adversely impact our product development and harm productivity and collaboration. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting weakening of the global economy, rapid increase in unemployment rates, declines in interest rates and reductions in business confidence and activity have had a significant impact on our financial institution, Alt-FI and FinTech customers, as well as the End-User businesses and individuals that utilize our customers' services. These conditions may affect the rate of technology spending and influence the timing of our customers' and prospective customers' technology purchasing and implementation decisions, which could adversely affect our customers' and prospective customers' ability or willingness to purchase our solutions, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions, negatively affect our renewal rates and churn or result in a decrease in the number of End Users of our solutions or the transactions performed using our solutions, each of which is difficult to predict and any of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition on both a short-term and long-term basis. For example, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience delayed implementations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic as our customers focus on other initiatives in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and manage their own operations in light of the pandemic. In addition, while we believe the COVID-19 pandemic will increase the importance and prominence of digital financial solutions, likely resulting in increased registration of new End Users with existing Installed Customers and the retention of certain customers that may have otherwise not renewed their contracts, the increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending, is resulting in delays in certain purchasing decisions and implementations, which may delay bookings and our recognition of revenue. Given the uncertainty that still surrounds COVID-19, we are expecting sales performance for the foreseeable future across all our solutions to be slower than it would have been without the pandemic. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic also has and may continue to delay customer decisions with respect to contract extensions and may result in certain downgrades and cancellations from existing customers. For example, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience certain customers requesting reduced or extended payment terms to assist them with cost reduction measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which we have to date made conditional on associated contract extensions to offset the impact of the reduced payments. We also have and could continue to experience contract terminations with customers who become insolvent as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity, including consumer and business spending, resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, our growth rate is likely to decline, and may decline significantly. In addition, the operational constraints placed on our business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact our ability to bring new solutions to market in a timely manner. The duration and extent of the impact from COVID-19 on our growth rate depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time. 24 Table of Contents Other factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that may adversely impact our business operations include: challenges to our operations and our ability to meet customer service level commitments due to government shelter-in-place or other orders under which we are not able to provide certain customer-facing services remotely, which may cause potential loss of revenue or contractual penalties, as well as associated costs resulting from potential legal disputes regarding force majeure or other related contract defenses; service interruptions or impaired system performance due to failures of or delays in our systems or resources as a result of increased online banking activity related to End Users utilizing digital banking services while subject to government shelter-in-place or similar orders, or increased use of our solutions resulting from government stimulus programs; changes to our normal operations, including as a result of increased remote working and the possibility that one or more clusters of COVID-19 cases could occur at one of our locations, data centers or other third-party providers, affecting our employees or affecting the systems or employees of our customers or other third parties on which we depend; risks, including public and private litigation, based upon, arising out of or related to COVID-19 and our actions and responses thereto, including any actions that we may take in connection with re-opening our offices where permitted by local law; an increase in the volume of customer and regulatory requests for information and support; and increased cyber fraud risk related to increased online banking, e-commerce and other online activity. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect the spread of COVID-19 as a global pandemic may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the pandemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of the impacts on our business, our operations or the global economy as a whole. However, the effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition and could cause, contribute to or increase the likelihood of many of the risks with respect to our business and ownership of our securities described further in this "Risk Factors" section, any of which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Risks Related to our Operations, Industry and the Markets We Serve We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods and if we fail to manage our growth effectively or experience a decline in our growth rate, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service and customer satisfaction or adequately address competitive challenges, and our financial performance may be adversely affected. Since our inception, our business has rapidly grown, which has resulted in large increases in our number of employees, expansion of the types of solutions we sell and the customers we sell them to, expansion to international locations and international customers, expansion of our infrastructure, enhancement of our internal systems and other significant changes and additional complexities. Our revenues increased from $241.1 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 to $315.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 and $402.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. While we intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, and number of employees, our recent growth rate is not necessarily indicative of the growth that we will achieve in the future. The growth in our business generally, our management of a growing workforce and international customer base and the stress of such growth on our internal controls and systems require substantial management effort, infrastructure and operational capabilities. To support our growth, we must continue to improve our management resources and our operational and financial controls and systems, and these improvements may increase our expenses more than anticipated and result in a more complex business, and our failure to timely and effectively implement these improvements could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, our increased focus on selling our solutions to larger customers and the increased breadth of our solution offerings and the types of customers we serve may result in greater uncertainty and variability in our business and sales results. We also will have to anticipate the necessary expansion of our relationship management, implementation, customer service and other personnel to support our growth and achieve high levels of customer service and satisfaction, particularly as we sell to larger customers that have heightened levels of complexity in their hardware, software and network infrastructure needs and as we sell a broader range of solutions to a broader set of customers. Our success will depend on our ability to plan for and manage this growth effectively and to address challenges to our growth model resulting from rapid changes in economic conditions. If we fail to anticipate and manage our growth or are unable to provide high levels of system performance and customer service, our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition, could be harmed. 25 Table of Contents If the market for our solutions develops more slowly than we expect or changes in a way that we fail to anticipate, our sales would suffer and our operating results would be harmed. The market for financial services has been dramatically changing, and we do not know whether financial institutions and traditional and emerging financial services providers will adopt or continue to adopt our existing and new solutions or whether the market will change in ways that we do not anticipate. Many financial institutions have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in legacy software, and these institutions may be reluctant or unwilling to convert from their existing systems to our solutions. For financial institutions, switching from one provider of solutions (or from an internally developed legacy system) to a new provider is a significant endeavor. Many potential customers believe switching providers involves too many potential disadvantages such as disruption of business operations, loss of accustomed functionality, and increased costs (including conversion and transition costs). Furthermore, some financial institutions may be reluctant or unwilling to use a cloud-based solution over concerns such as the security of their data and reliability of the delivery model. These concerns or other considerations may cause financial institutions to choose not to adopt cloud-based solutions such as ours or to adopt alternative solutions, either of which would harm our operating results. We attempt to overcome these concerns through value enhancing strategies such as a flexible integration process and continued investment in the enhanced functionality and features of our solutions. If financial institutions are unwilling to transition from their legacy systems, the demand for our solutions and related services could decline and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success also depends on our ability to sell new solutions and enhanced solutions to our current and new customers. As we create new solutions and enhance our existing solutions to support new customer types, technologies and devices, these solutions and related services may not be attractive to customers. In addition, promoting and selling these new and enhanced solutions may require increasingly costly sales and marketing efforts, and if customers choose not to adopt these solutions, our business could suffer. We derive substantially all of our revenues from customers in the financial services industry, and any downturn or consolidation in the financial services industry, or unfavorable economic conditions affecting regions in which a significant portion of our customers are concentrated or segments of potential customers on which we focus, could harm our business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from RCFIs. RCFIs have experienced significant pressure in recent years due to economic uncertainty, liquidity concerns and increased regulation. In recent years, many RCFIs have failed, merged or been acquired. Failures and consolidations are likely to continue, and there are very few new RCFIs being created. Further, if our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities such as financial institutions that have in-house developed solutions or that are not our customers or use fewer of our solutions, our customers may discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our solutions. It is also possible that the larger RCFIs that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to replace some or all of our solutions. Financial institutions increasingly face competition from non-depository institutions or other innovative products or emerging technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, which may reduce the number of End Users or transactions using their more traditional financial services. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any downturn in the financial services industry or unfavorable economic conditions affecting the regions in which our customers are concentrated or particular segments of customers on which we focus may cause our customers to reduce their spending on solutions such as ours, seek to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us or fail. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenues is derived from RCFIs in states, in particular Texas, whose economies are substantially dependent upon the energy and natural resources market, in particular oil and gas exploration and production. Since 2014, the price of oil and gas has remained low resulting in significant economic uncertainty in Texas and such other states. Should the price of oil and gas decline further or remain at the current low price for an extended period, the general economic conditions in Texas and such other states will be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our RCFI customers, and accordingly our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As the number, size, type and complexity of customers that we serve increase and change, we may encounter implementation challenges, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some complex engagements, which would harm our business and operating results. We may face unexpected implementation challenges related to the complexity of our customers' implementation and integration requirements, particularly implementations for larger customers that have heightened levels of complexity in their hardware, software and network infrastructure needs. Our implementation expenses increase when customers have unexpected data, hardware or software technology challenges, or complex or unanticipated business or regulatory requirements. In addition, our customers typically require complex acceptance testing related to the implementation of our solutions. Implementation delays also may require us to delay revenue recognition under the related customer agreement longer than expected. Further, because we do not fully control our customers' implementation schedules, if our customers do not allocate the internal resources necessary to meet implementation timelines or if there are unanticipated implementation delays or difficulties, our revenue 26 Table of Contents recognition may be delayed. Losses of End Users or any difficulties or delays in implementation processes could cause customers to delay or forgo future purchases of our solutions, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with our solutions, particularly as we introduce new products and solutions, or our systems, infrastructure and resources fail to meet their needs. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers and meet their needs. Our customers use a variety of network infrastructure, hardware and software, which typically increases in complexity the larger the customer is, and our solutions must support the specific configuration of our customers' existing systems, including in many cases the solutions of third-party providers. If our solutions do not currently support a customer's required data format or appropriately integrate with a customer's applications and infrastructure, then we must configure our solutions to do so, which could negatively affect the performance of our systems and increase our expenses and the time it takes to implement our solutions. Any failure of or delays in our systems or resources could cause service interruptions or impaired system performance. Some of our customer agreements require us to issue credits for downtime in excess of certain thresholds, and in some instances give our customers the ability to terminate the agreements in the event of significant amounts of downtime, or if we experience other defects with our solutions. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to new and existing customers, cause us to lose customers, and lower renewal rates by existing customers, each of which could adversely affect our revenue and reputation. In addition, negative publicity resulting from issues related to our customer relationships, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by adversely affecting our ability to attract new customers and maintain and expand our relationships with existing customers. If the use of our solutions increases, or if our customers demand more advanced features from our solutions, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our solutions, and we also may need to expand our technical infrastructure and related resources at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. This would involve spending substantial amounts to purchase or lease data center capacity and equipment, subscribe to new or additional third-party hosting services, upgrade our technology and infrastructure or introduce new or enhanced solutions. It takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test changes to our solutions and related infrastructure and resources, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. There are inherent risks associated with changing, upgrading, improving and expanding our technical infrastructure and related resources. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future infrastructure and technologies could reduce the demand for our solutions, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. Also, any expansion of our infrastructure and related resources would likely require that we appropriately scale our internal business systems and services organization, including implementation and customer support services, to serve our growing customer base. If we are unable to respond to these changes or fully and effectively implement them in a cost-effective and timely manner, our service may become ineffective, we may lose customers, and our operating results may be negatively impacted. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and pricing pressure, new technologies or other competitive dynamics could adversely affect our business and operating results. We currently compete with providers of technology and services in the financial services industry, including point system vendors and core processing vendors, as well as systems internally developed by financial services providers. With respect to our digital banking platform, we have a number of point system competitors, including NCR Corporation, or NCR, nCino, Inc., Alkami Technology, Inc. and Kony, Inc. (acquired by Temenos AG in September 2019) in the online, consumer and small business banking space and Finastra, ACI Worldwide, Inc. and Bottomline Technologies (de), Inc. in the commercial banking space. We also compete with core processing vendors that provide systems and services such as Fiserv, Inc., Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. and Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., or FIS. With respect to our lending and leasing platform, we compete against a number of point system competitors, including Abrigo, Baker Hill Solutions, LLC, Fair Isaac Corporation, nCino, Inc., Finastra, Moody's Analytics, Inc., Brilliance Financial Technology, Oracle Corporation, Temenos AG, and core processing vendors, including FIS and Fiserv. With respect to our BaaS solutions, due to the vast number of potential use cases and customer segments, the list of potential competitors is extremely broad and varied, but includes companies across the retail banking, financial services, transaction processing, consumer technology and financial technology services industries. Many of our competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, may devote greater resources to the promotion, sale and support of their systems than we can, have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In addition, many of our competitors expend more funds on research and development. In the uncertain economic environment caused by COVID-19, many of our competitors may have greater liquidity and access to capital than we do and may respond to market conditions by lowering prices to compete for customers, the impact of which could adversely impact our business and financial results. 27 Table of Contents We also may face competition from new companies entering our markets, which may include large established businesses that decide to develop, market or resell competitive solutions, acquire one of our competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors. In addition, new companies entering our markets may choose to offer competitive solutions at little or no additional cost to the customer by bundling them with their existing applications, including adjacent financial services technologies and core processing software. New entrants to the markets we serve might also include financial services providers developing financial services solutions and other technologies, including solutions built using competing BaaS solutions or open API platforms. Competition from these new entrants may make our business more difficult and adversely affect our results. If we are unable to compete in this environment, sales and renewals of our solutions could decline and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. With the introduction of new technologies and potential new entrants into the markets for our solutions, we expect competition to intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and achieve profitability. In addition, we may face increased competition in our existing markets as we enter new markets or sections of a market with larger or different customers and new solutions. Our industry has also experienced recent consolidation which we believe may continue. Any further consolidation our industry experiences could lead to increased competition and result in pricing pressure or loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, limit our growth prospects or reduce our revenues. If we are unable to effectively integrate our solutions with other systems or services used by our customers and prospective customers, including if we are forced to discontinue integration due to security or quality concerns with a third-party system or service, or if there are performance issues with such third-party systems or services, our solutions will not operate effectively and our operations will be adversely affected. The functionality of our solutions depends on our ability to integrate with other third-party systems and services used by our customers, including core processing software and, in the case of our BaaS solutions, banking services. Certain providers of these third-party systems or services also offer solutions that are competitive with our solutions and may have an advantage over us with customers using their software by having better ability to integrate with their software and by being able to bundle their competitive products with other applications used by our customers and prospective customers at favorable pricing. We do not have formal arrangements with many of these third-party providers regarding our access to their APIs to enable these customer integrations. Our business may be harmed if any such third-party provider: changes the features or functionality of its services, applications and platforms in a manner adverse to us; discontinues or limits our solutions' access to its systems or services; suffers a security incident or other incident that requires us to discontinue integration with its systems or services or results in a compromise of our systems or services; ceases to operate; terminates or does not allow us to renew or replace our existing contractual relationships on the same or better terms; modifies its terms of service or other policies, including fees charged to, or other restrictions on, us or our customers; or establishes more favorable relationships with one or more of our competitors, or acquires one or more of our competitors and offer competing services. Such changes could limit or prevent us from integrating our solutions with these third-party systems or services, which could impair the functionality of our solutions, prohibit the use of our solutions or limit our ability to sell our solutions to customers, each of which could harm our business. If we are unable to integrate with such third-party systems or services as a result of changes to or restricted access to the systems or services by such third parties during the terms of existing agreements with customers using such third-party systems or services, we may not be able to meet our contractual obligations to customers, which may result in disputes with customers and harm to our business. In addition, if any such third-party providers experience an outage, our solutions integrated with such systems or services will not function properly or at all, and our customers may be dissatisfied with our solutions. If the systems or services of such third-party providers have performance or other problems, such issues may reflect poorly on us and the adoption and renewal of our solutions and our business may be harmed. Although our customers may be able to switch to alternative technologies if a provider's systems or services were unreliable or if a provider was to limit such customer's access and utilization of its data or the provider's functionality, our business could nevertheless be harmed due to the risk that our customers could reduce their use of our solutions. 28 Table of Contents If our security measures or the security measures of our customers or third-party providers on whom we rely are compromised or unauthorized access to our systems or customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may not be secure or may be perceived as not being secure, and customers may curtail or cease their use of our solutions, our reputation may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. Certain elements of our solutions process and store personally identifiable information, or PII, such as banking and personal information of our customers and their End Users, and we also may have access to PII during various stages of the implementation process or during the course of providing customer support. Furthermore, as we develop additional functionality, we may gain greater access to PII. We maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this information and our information technology systems. However, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper or unauthorized access to or disclosure of PII or other security events that impact the integrity or availability of PII or our systems and operations, or the related costs we may incur to mitigate the consequences from such events. Further, given the flexibility and complexity of our solutions, there is a risk that configurations of, or defects in, the solutions or errors in implementation could create vulnerabilities to security breaches. There may be unlawful attempts to disrupt or gain access to our information technology systems or the PII or other data of our customers or their End Users that may disrupt our or our customers' operations. In addition, because we leverage third-party providers, including cloud, software, data center and other critical technology vendors to develop and deliver our solution to our customers and their End Users, we rely heavily on the data security technology practices and policies adopted by these third-party providers. A vulnerability in a third-party provider's software or systems, a failure of our third-party providers' safeguards, policies or procedures, or a breach of a third-party provider's software or systems could result in the compromise of the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our systems or the data housed in our solutions. Our security measures and the security measures of our customers or third-party providers on whom we rely may not be sufficient to prevent our systems from being compromised as a result of third-party action, the error or intentional misconduct of employees, customers or their End Users, malfeasance or stolen or fraudulently obtained login credentials. Security incidents can result in unauthorized access to, loss of or unauthorized disclosure of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, which could damage our reputation, impair our sales, harm our business and result in increased volatility in our stock price. Cyber-attacks, ransomware attacks, account take-over attacks, fraudulent representations and other malicious Internet-based activity continue to increase and evolve and financial services providers, their End Users, and technology providers are often targets of such attacks. In addition to traditional computer "hackers," malicious code (such as viruses and worms), phishing, employee theft or misuse and denial-of-service attacks, sophisticated criminal networks as well as nation-state and nation-state supported actors now engage in attacks, including advanced persistent threat intrusions. Current or future criminal capabilities, discovery of existing or new vulnerabilities, and attempts to exploit those vulnerabilities or other developments, may compromise or breach our systems or solutions. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or the employees of our customers or third-party providers into disclosing sensitive information such as usernames, passwords or other information to gain access to our confidential or proprietary information or the data of our customers and their End Users. A party who is able to compromise the security of our facilities could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be unable to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems because they change frequently and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our customer base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems or gain unauthorized access to the data of our customers and their End Users. In addition, there may be an increased risk of cyber-attacks or cyber fraud related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as cybercriminals attempt to profit from the disruption, given increased online banking, e-commerce and other online activity. Additionally, there is an increased risk that we may experience cybersecurity-related events such as COVID-19 themed phishing attacks and other security challenges as a result of most of our employees and our service providers working remotely from non-corporate managed networks during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and potentially continuing working remotely even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided. A failure or inability to meet our customers' expectations with respect to security and confidentiality could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Federal, state and other regulations may require us to notify customers and their End Users of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. Security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to public disclosures and widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 29 Table of Contents In addition, some of our customers contractually require notification of any data security compromise and include representations and warranties that our solutions comply with certain regulations related to data security and privacy. Although our customer agreements typically include limitations on our potential liability, there can be no assurance that such limitations of liability would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims, or that our insurers will not deny or attempt to deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more claims against us, the inadequacy of or denial of coverage under our insurance policies, litigation to pursue claims under our policies or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales cycle can be unpredictable, time-consuming and costly, which could harm our business and operating results. Our sales process involves educating prospective customers and existing customers about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our solutions. Prospective customers, especially larger financial services providers, often undertake a prolonged evaluation process, which typically involves not only our solutions, but also those of our competitors and lasts from six to nine months or longer. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales and marketing efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. It is also difficult to predict the level and timing of sales opportunities that come from our referral partners. Events affecting our customers' businesses may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, contributing to more unpredictability in our business and operating results. Such events may cause our customers or partners to delay, reduce, or even cancel planned digital financial services spending and may impact our business and operations. If customers or partners significantly reduce their spending with us or significantly delay or fail to make payments to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected, and as a result of our sales cycle, subscription model and our revenue recognition policies, the effects of such reductions or delays on our results of operations may not be fully reflected for some time. Defects or errors in our solutions, including failures associated with payment transactions, could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair our ability to sell our solutions and subject us to substantial liability. Our solutions are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. The volume and dollar amount of payment transactions that we, our customers and our third-party partners process is significant and continues to grow. Transactions facilitated by us, our customers and our third-party partners include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, Automated Clearing House, or ACH, payments, real-time payments through faster payment networks and check clearing that support consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. Despite extensive testing, from time-to-time we have discovered defects or errors in our solutions. In addition, due to changes in regulatory requirements relating to our customers or to technology providers to financial services providers like us, we may discover deficiencies in our software processes related to those requirements. Material performance problems or defects in our solutions might arise in the future. Any such errors, defects, other performance problems or disruptions in service to provide bug fixes or upgrades, whether in connection with day-to-day operations or otherwise, could be costly for us to remedy, damage our customers' businesses and harm our reputation. If the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised in connection with payments transactions, we could suffer financial as well as reputational loss. In addition, if we have any such errors, defects or other performance problems, our customers could seek to terminate their agreements, elect not to renew their subscriptions, delay or withhold payment or make claims against us. Any of these actions could result in lost business, increased insurance costs, difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable, costly litigation and adverse publicity. Such errors, defects or other problems could also result in reduced sales or a loss of, or delay in, the market acceptance of our solutions. Moreover, software development is time-consuming, expensive, complex and requires regular maintenance. Unforeseen difficulties can arise. If we do not complete our periodic maintenance according to schedule or if customers are otherwise dissatisfied with the frequency or duration of our maintenance services, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us or cause us to issue credits, make refunds or pay penalties. Because our solutions are often customized and deployed on a customer-by-customer basis, rather than through a multi-tenant SaaS method of distribution, applying bug fixes, upgrades or other maintenance services may require updating each instance of our software, which could be time consuming and cause us to incur significant expense. We might also encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we discover problems that prevent our solutions from operating properly. If our solutions do not function reliably or fail to achieve 30 Table of Contents customer expectations in terms of performance, customers could seek to cancel their agreements with us and assert liability claims against us, which could damage our reputation, impair our ability to attract or maintain customers and harm our results of operations. Failures or reduced accessibility of third-party hardware, software or other services on which we rely could impair the delivery of our solutions and adversely affect our business. We rely on hardware and services that we purchase or lease and software, including open source software, that we develop or license from, or that is hosted by third parties, to offer our solutions. In addition, we obtain licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our solutions. These licenses might not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. These third-party providers have chosen and may in the future choose not to continue to support certain of the hardware, software or services we license. We also have chosen and may in the future choose to discontinue the use of the hardware, services or software we acquire or license from such third-party providers, which may require that we pay termination fees or recognize related accounting charges or impairments. While we are not substantially dependent upon any third-party hardware, services or software other than our third-party data centers, the loss of the right or ability to use all or a significant portion of our third-party hardware, services or software required for the development, maintenance and delivery of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until we develop or identify, obtain and integrate equivalent technology, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in the hardware, services or software we use could result in errors, interruptions or a failure of our solutions. Although we believe that there are alternatives, any significant interruption in the availability of all or a significant portion of such hardware, services or software could have an adverse impact on our business unless and until we can replace the functionality provided by these products at a similar cost. Furthermore, such hardware, services and software may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to use all or a significant portion of such hardware, services or software could limit access to our solutions. Additionally, we rely upon third parties' abilities to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We may be unable to effect changes to such third-party technologies, which may prevent us from rapidly responding to evolving customer requirements. We also may be unable to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently offered in conjunction with our solutions in the event that such software becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our solutions or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. We depend on data centers operated by third parties and third-party Internet hosting providers, and any disruption in the operation of these facilities or access to the Internet could adversely affect our business. We currently host our digital banking platform solutions primarily from two third-party data center hosting facilities located in Austin, Texas and Carrollton, Texas, which are both operated by the same third-party provider, and certain of our lending and leasing and BaaS solutions are hosted by cloud-based providers, including Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure. The owners and operators of these current and future facilities and cloud-based hosting services do not guarantee that our customers' access to our solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. We may experience website disruptions, outages and other performance problems. These problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, viruses, security attacks, fraud, operational disruption, spikes in customer usage and denial of service issues. In early April 2020 and January 2021, financial institutions and their online banking service providers experienced unprecedented user login activity as a result of increased online banking activity due to global shelter-in-place and similar orders, as well as a significant increase in logins by End Users seeking to check their accounts for receipt of government stimulus funds. In April 2020, these unprecedented levels of logins resulted in delayed access to online banking for many financial institutions, including many of our customers. As a result of these delays, we have taken steps and made investments in additional data center capacity to increase the processing capacity of our online banking platform to minimize any future delays, and we expect to make additional incremental investments to further enhance our hosting infrastructure and support. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. We do not control the operation of these data center facilities and cloud-based services, and such facilities and services are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, power loss, hardware failures, telecommunications failures, fires, wars, terrorist attacks, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, pandemics or similar catastrophic events. They also could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or terminate our hosting arrangement or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions, cause system interruptions, prevent our customers' End Users from accessing their accounts or services online, reputational harm and loss of critical data, prevent us from supporting our solutions or cause us to incur additional expense in arranging for new facilities, services and support. 31 Table of Contents We also depend on third-party Internet-hosting providers and continuous and uninterrupted access to the Internet through third-party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our Internet-hosting or bandwidth providers for any reason or if their services are disrupted, for example due to viruses or denial of service or other attacks on their systems, or due to human error, intentional bad acts, power loss, hardware failures, telecommunications failures, fires, wars, terrorist attacks, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, pandemics or similar catastrophic events, we could experience disruption in our ability to offer our solutions and adverse perception of our solutions' reliability, or we could be required to retain the services of replacement providers, which could increase our operating costs and harm our business and reputation. We do not have any control over the availability or performance of salesforce.com's Force.com platform, and if we or our digital lending and leasing solution customers encounter problems with it, we may be required to replace Force.com with another platform, which would be difficult and costly. Certain of our digital lending and leasing solutions run on salesforce.com's Force.com platform, and we do not have any control over the Force.com platform or the prices salesforce.com charges to our customers. Salesforce.com may discontinue or modify Force.com or increase its fees or modify its pricing incentives for our customers. If salesforce.com takes any of these actions, we may suffer lower sales, increased operating costs and loss of revenue from certain of our digital lending and leasing solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available from a third party, is identified, obtained and integrated. Additionally, we may not be able to honor commitments we have made to our customers and we may be subject to breach of contract or other claims from our customers. In addition, we do not control the performance of Force.com. If Force.com experiences an outage, certain of our digital lending and leasing solutions will not function properly, and our customers may be dissatisfied. If salesforce.com has performance or other problems with its Force.com platform or its operations generally, they will reflect poorly on us and the adoption and renewal of certain of our digital lending and leasing solutions and our business may be harmed. If we fail to provide effective customer training on our solutions and high-quality customer support, our business and reputation would suffer. Effective customer training on our solutions and high-quality, ongoing customer support are important to the successful marketing and sale of our solutions and for the renewal of existing customer agreements. Providing this training and support requires that our customer training and support personnel have financial services knowledge and expertise, making it difficult for us to hire qualified personnel and scale our training and support operations. Additionally, training and support services may become more difficult to perform in light of the operational constraints related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including remote working by us and our customers' employees. The demand on our customer support organization will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers, and such increased support could require us to devote significant development services and support personnel, which could strain our team and infrastructure and reduce our profit margins. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve any post-implementation issues and provide effective ongoing customer support, our ability to sell additional solutions to existing and future customers could suffer and our reputation would be harmed. If we fail to respond to evolving technological requirements or introduce adequate enhancements, new features or solutions, our solutions could become obsolete or less competitive. The markets for our solutions are characterized by rapid technological advancements, changes in customer requirements and technologies, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and changing regulatory requirements. The life cycles of our solutions are difficult to estimate. Rapid technological changes and the introduction of new products and enhancements by new or existing competitors or large financial services providers could undermine our current market position. Other means of digital financial services solutions may be developed or adopted in the future, and our solutions may not be compatible with these new technologies. In addition, the technological needs of, and services provided by, customers may change if they or their competitors offer new services to End Users. Maintaining adequate research and development resources to meet the demands of the markets we serve is essential. The process of developing new technologies and solutions is complex and expensive. The introduction of new solutions by our competitors, the market acceptance of competitive solutions based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new technologies or solutions in the broader financial services industry could render our solutions obsolete or less effective. The success of any enhanced or new solution depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate testing and market release and acceptance of the solution. Any new solutions that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are unable to anticipate customer requirements or work with our customers successfully on implementing new solutions or features in a timely manner or enhance our existing solutions to meet our customers' requirements, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities and teams, including through partner relationships, we may not be able to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend on our ability to expand our sales and marketing organizations and their abilities to obtain new customers and sell additional solutions and services to new and existing customers. We believe there is significant competition for direct sales professionals with the skills and knowledge that we require, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future. Our ability to achieve significant future revenue growth will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they become fully productive and may not become as productive as quickly as we anticipate. As a result, the cost of hiring and carrying new representatives cannot be offset by the revenues they produce for a significant period of time. Our growth prospects will be harmed if our efforts to expand, train and retain our direct sales team do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues. Additionally, if we fail to sufficiently invest in our marketing programs or they are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our company and solutions, our business may be harmed and our sales opportunities limited. Furthermore, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, nearly all of our employees, and many of the employees of our customers and third-party providers on which we depend, now perform their functions remotely. If shelter-in-place, business closure, business occupancy limitation, and other restrictive orders continue, they may adversely impact our ability to effectively train and retain qualified individuals and the effectiveness of our direct sales team. We also may take additional actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that further alter our business operations as the situation evolves. These decisions may delay or reduce sales and harm productivity and collaboration. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the effects of the operational alterations we have made in response on our business cannot be predicted at this time. In addition to our direct sales team, we also extend our sales distribution through formal and informal relationships with referral partners. While we are not substantially dependent upon referrals from any partner, our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend upon continued referrals from our partners and growth of the network of our referral partners. These partners are under no contractual obligation to continue to refer business to us, nor do these partners have exclusive relationships with us and may choose to instead refer potential customers to our competitors. We cannot be certain that these partners will prioritize or provide adequate resources for promoting our solutions or that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with referral partners. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties, including our partners, to favor their solutions or prevent or reduce subscriptions to our solutions either by disrupting our relationships with existing customers or limiting our ability to win new customers. Establishing and retaining qualified partners and training them with respect to our solutions requires significant time and resources. If we are unable to devote sufficient time and resources to establish and train these partners or if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, we may lose sales opportunities and our revenues could suffer. We rely on our management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team, in particular our Chief Executive Officer, and other key employees, including in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing development professionals because of the complexity of our solutions, including complexity arising as a result of the regulatory requirements that are applicable to our customers and the pace of technology changes impacting our customers and their End Users. We may terminate any employee's employment at any time, with or without cause, and any employee may resign at any time, with or without cause; however, our employment agreements with our named executive officers provide for the payment of severance under certain circumstances. We also have entered into employment agreements with our other executive officers which provide for the payment of severance under similar circumstances as in our named executive officers' employment agreements. The loss of one or more of our key employees could harm our business. 33 Table of Contents Because competition for key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly-skilled employees we need to support our operations and future growth. Competition for executive officers, software developers and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for executive officers, for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals and knowledgeable customer support professionals, and we may not be successful in attracting the professionals we need. Competition for software development and engineering personnel is intense. We may have difficulty hiring and retaining suitably skilled personnel or expanding our research and development organization. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the actual and potential value of the equity awards they receive as part of their overall compensation. Thus, if the perceived value or future value of our stock declines, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees may be adversely affected. In addition, many of our existing employees may exercise vested options or vest in outstanding restricted stock units and sell our stock, which may make it more difficult for us to retain key employees. If we fail to attract and retain new employees, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed. Because our long-term success depends on our ability to operate our business internationally and increase sales of our solutions to customers located outside of the U.S., our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We have international operations in India, Australia, the United Kingdom and Europe. We also may expand our international operations in the foreseeable future. The continued international expansion of our operations requires significant management attention and financial resources and results in increased administrative and compliance costs. Our limited experience in operating our business in certain regions outside the U.S. increases the risk that our expansion efforts into those regions may not be successful. In particular, our business model may not be successful in particular countries or regions outside the U.S. for reasons that we currently are unable to anticipate. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks that we have not generally faced in the U.S. These include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the complexity of, or changes in, foreign regulatory requirements; the cost and complexity of bringing our solutions into compliance with foreign regulatory requirements, and risks of our solutions not being compliant; difficulties in managing the staffing of international operations, including compliance with local labor and employment laws and regulations; complexities implementing and enforcing cross-border information technology and security controls; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, overlapping tax regimes, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates; dependence on resellers and distributors to increase customer acquisition or drive localization efforts; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards, certain of which may be significantly more burdensome than those in place in the U.S.; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; longer sales cycles; political, social and economic instability abroad; terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; difficulties entering new non-U.S. markets due to, among other things, consumer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; travel restrictions imposed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; 34 Table of Contents constraints of remote working by employees during the COVD-19 pandemic due to limitations of local infrastructure or other resources; reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and the risk of U.S. regulation of foreign operations. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our operating results. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage our expansion into additional geographic markets, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In particular, we operate some of our research and development activities internationally and outsource a portion of the coding and testing of our products and product enhancements to contract development vendors. We believe that performing research and development in our international facilities and supplementing these activities with our contract development vendors enhances the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our product development. If we experience problems with our workforce or facilities internationally, we may not be able to develop new products or enhance existing products in an alternate manner that may be equally or less efficient and cost-effective. In addition, if information technology and security controls we have implemented to address risks posed by research and development activities outside of the U.S. are breached or are otherwise ineffective, our intellectual property or technical infrastructure could be compromised or stolen and we could be subjected to cyberattacks or intrusions. We are monitoring developments related to the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union commonly referred to as "Brexit." The potential effects of Brexit on our business will depend upon any agreements the United Kingdom makes to retain access to European Union markets either during the current transitional period or more permanently and negotiations are ongoing. Since we have operations in the United Kingdom and Europe, Brexit could potentially have corporate structural consequences, adversely change tax benefits or liabilities and disrupt some of the markets and jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. We may acquire or invest in companies, or pursue business partnerships, which may divert our management's attention and present additional risks, and we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions or investments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have completed, and may in the future evaluate and consider, potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our solutions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. We may not be able to find and identify desirable additional acquisition targets, we may incorrectly estimate the value of an acquisition target, and we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular target. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our past acquisitions or any additional businesses we acquire due to a number of factors, including: our inability to integrate, manage or benefit from acquired operations, technologies or services; unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition, including the assumption of liabilities or commitments of the acquired business that were not disclosed to us or that exceeded our estimates; difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business; difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy solutions and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience or in which competitors have stronger market positions; difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business to our solutions and contract terms, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or professional services model of the acquired company; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; 35 Table of Contents adverse effects to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; the use of a substantial portion of our cash that we may need to operate our business and which may limit our operational flexibility and ability to pursue additional strategic transactions; the issuance of additional equity securities that would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders; incurrence of debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; incurrence of large charges or substantial liabilities; our inability to apply and maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies with respect to the acquired businesses; difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business culture; and becoming subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to secure sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. We may require additional capital in the future to pursue business opportunities or acquisitions, pay off our existing debt or respond to challenges and unforeseen circumstances. We also may decide to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing we obtain in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Financial and Accounting-Related Risks Because we recognize revenues from a significant portion of our solutions over the terms of our customer agreements, the impact of changes in the subscriptions for such solutions will not be immediately reflected in our operating results, and rapid growth in our customer base may adversely affect our operating results in the short term since we expense a substantial portion of implementation costs as incurred. We generally recognize revenues monthly over the terms of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform customer agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. As a result, the substantial majority of the revenues we report in each quarter are related to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a change in the level of new customer agreements or implementations in any quarter may have a small impact on our revenues in that quarter but will affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions, or changes in our rate of renewals may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. For example, any decrease in sales resulting from the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may have a greater impact on our financial results in future periods than in the period in which the decrease occurs. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period. Additionally, we recognize our expenses over varying periods based on the nature of the expense. In particular, we recognize a substantial portion of implementation expenses as incurred even though we recognize the related revenues over extended periods. As a result, we may report poor operating results in periods in which we are incurring higher implementation expenses related to revenues that we will recognize in future periods, including implementations for larger customers that have heightened levels of complexity in their hardware, software and network infrastructure needs. Alternatively, we may report better operating results in periods due to lower implementation expenses, but such lower expenses may be indicative of slower revenue growth in future periods. As a result, our expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues and changes in our business generally may not be immediately reflected in our results of operations. For example, any delays in our ability to complete previously planned implementations as a result of COVID-19 pandemic may result in significant fluctuations in our expenses in future periods. 36 Table of Contents We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. In addition to the other risks described in this report, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: the addition or loss of customers, including through acquisitions, consolidations or failures; the amount of use of our solutions in a period and the amount of any associated revenues and expenses; budgeting cycles of our customers and changes in spending on solutions by our current or prospective customers; seasonal variations in sales of our solutions, which may be lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, changes to pricing or the introduction of new products and services that limit demand for our solutions or cause customers to delay purchasing decisions; the amount and timing of cash collections from our customers; long or delayed implementation times for new customers, including larger customers, or other changes in the levels of customer support we provide; the timing and predictability of sales of our solutions and the impact that the timing of bookings may have on our revenue and financial performance in a period; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers, including any buyouts by customers of the remaining term of their contracts with us in a lump sum payment that we would have otherwise recognized over the term of those contracts, and any costs associated with impairments of related contract assets; the amount and timing of our operating costs and capital expenditures; changes in tax rules or the impact of new accounting pronouncements, including the effects of our adoption of newly issued accounting standards regarding revenue recognition; general economic conditions that may adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to purchase solutions, delay a prospective customer's purchasing decision, reduce our revenues from customers or affect renewal rates; public health emergencies and their effect on the operations of us, our customers, our third-party providers and on the overall economy; unexpected expenses such as those related to litigation or other disputes; the timing of stock awards to employees and related adverse financial statement impact of having to expense those stock awards over their vesting schedules; and the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, hiring, training and integrating new employees, many of whom we hire in advance of anticipated needs. Moreover, the price of our convertible notes and our common stock might be based on expectations of investors or securities analysts of future performance that are inconsistent with our actual growth opportunities or that we might fail to meet and, if our revenues or operating results fall below expectations, the price of our convertible notes and common stock could decline substantially. We have a history of losses, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses from operations in each period since our inception in 2005, except for 2010 when we recognized a gain on the sale of a subsidiary. We incurred net losses of $137.6 million, $70.9 million and $35.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $381.2 million. These losses and accumulated deficit reflect the substantial investments we have made to develop our solutions and acquire customers. As we seek to continue to grow our number of customers, including through acquisitions, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing, implementation and other related expenses, including amortization of acquired intangibles. Our ability to achieve or sustain profitability will depend on our obtaining sufficient scale and productivity so that the cost of adding 37 Table of Contents and supporting new customers does not adversely impact our margins. We also expect to make other significant expenditures to develop and expand our solutions and our business, including continuing to increase our marketing, services and sales operations and continuing our significant investment in research and development and our technical infrastructure. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to focus on adding new customers and solutions, and we cannot predict whether or when we will achieve or sustain profitability. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenues enough to offset our higher operating expenses. In addition, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. These increased expenditures will make it harder for us to achieve and maintain profitability. While our revenues have grown in recent periods, such growth may not be sustainable, and our revenues could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We also may incur additional losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to litigation and other unforeseen reasons and the risks described in this report. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future, nor that, if we do become profitable, we will be able to sustain profitability. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, our customers may lose confidence in us and slow or cease their purchases of our solutions and we may be unable to attract new customers, which would adversely impact our operating results. The markets in which we compete and demands of our customers are constantly changing and it is difficult to accurately predict the long-term rate of customer subscription renewals or adoption, or the impact these renewals and adoption, or any customer terminations, will have on our revenues or operating results. As the markets for our existing solutions develop and evolve, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. Additionally, as a result of the operational and economic challenges being faced by our customers, we could be forced to modify contractual or payment terms with our customers. Moreover, large or influential financial services providers may demand more favorable pricing or other contract terms, including termination rights. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices or accept other unfavorable contract terms, each of which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin, profitability, financial position and cash flow. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the initial subscription term, and if our customers renew at all, then our customers may renew for fewer solutions or on different pricing terms. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our pricing or our solutions or their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. Additionally, certain agreements may include termination rights allowing customers to terminate their customer agreements in the event of, among other things, defects with our solutions, changes in our solution, breach by us of our obligations, requirements from regulatory authorities or a change in control of our company. If our customers terminate or do not renew their subscriptions for our solutions on similar pricing terms, our revenues may decline and our business could suffer. As we create new solutions or enhance our existing solutions to support new technologies and devices, our pricing of these solutions and related services may be unattractive to customers or fail to cover our costs. Shifts over time in the number of End Users of our solutions, their use of our solutions and our customers' implementation and customer support needs could negatively affect our profit margins. Our profit margins can vary depending on numerous factors, including the scope and complexity of our implementation efforts, the number of End Users on our solutions, the frequency and volume of their use of our solutions and the level of customer support services required by our customers. For example, our services offerings typically have a much higher cost of revenues than subscriptions to our solutions, so any increase in sales of services as a proportion of our subscriptions would have an adverse effect on our overall gross margin and operating results. If we are unable to increase the number of End Users and the number of transactions they perform on our solutions, the types of customers that purchase our solutions changes, or the mix of solutions purchased by our customers changes, our profit margins could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. The market data and forecasts included in this report may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the markets in which we compete achieve the forecasted growth, we cannot assure you that our business will grow at similar rates, or at all. The market data and forecasts included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and our other filings with the SEC, including the data and forecasts published by BauerFinancial, Deloitte and Venture Scanner among others, and our internal estimates and research are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. If the forecasts of market growth or anticipated spending prove to be inaccurate, our business and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Even if the forecasted growth occurs, our business may not grow at a similar rate, or at all. Our future growth is subject to many factors, including our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, which itself is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Such reports speak as of their respective publication dates and the opinions expressed in such reports are subject to change. Accordingly, potential investors in our common stock are urged not to put undue reliance on such forecasts and market data. 38 Table of Contents We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $536.5 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards. Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. Our loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2026. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an ownership change. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in equity ownership by value over a 3-year period. We have undergone one or more ownership changes as a result of prior financings and may have undergone an ownership change as a result of our initial public offering in March 2014, or our registered common stock offerings in March 2015, September 2015, June 2019, May 2020, or in connection with shares of our common stock issued in connection with our November 2020 convertible debt exchange, and any such change in ownership and the corresponding annual limitation may prevent us from using our current net operating losses prior to their expiration. In addition, our acquisition of the various businesses acquired since 2015 may result in an ownership change, and any such change in ownership may result in a corresponding annual limitation which may prevent us from being able to fully utilize the net operating losses we acquired prior to their expiration. Future ownership changes or future regulatory changes could further limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income against our net operating loss carryforwards, this would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability. Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability for past sales. Any successful action by state, local or other authorities to collect additional or past sales tax could adversely harm our business. We file sales and other tax returns within the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions as required by law and certain customer contracts for a portion of the solutions that we provide. Our tax liabilities with respect to sales and other taxes in various jurisdictions was approximately $0.9 million as of December 31, 2020. From time to time, we face sales and other tax audits, and we will likely continue to do so in the future, and our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional amounts as taxes from our customers and remit those taxes to such authorities. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states or jurisdictions and some jurisdictions do not apply sales or similar taxes to certain solutions. State, local and foreign taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and other taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our solutions in various jurisdictions is unclear. We review these rules and regulations periodically, and when we believe we are subject to sales and other taxes in a particular jurisdiction, we may voluntarily engage tax authorities to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. A successful assertion by one or more jurisdictions, including those for which we have not accrued tax liability, requiring us to collect sales or other taxes with respect to sales of our solutions or customer support could result in substantial tax liabilities for past transactions, including interest and penalties, discourage customers from purchasing our solutions or otherwise harm our business and operating results. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Financial accounting standards may change or their interpretation may change. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change becomes effective. Changes to existing rules or the re-examining of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Accounting for revenues from sales of our solutions is particularly complex, is often the subject of intense scrutiny by the SEC and will evolve as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, continues to consider applicable accounting standards in this area. In particular, in order to be able to comply and maintain compliance with the requirements of the new revenue recognition standard under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 606, we have updated and enhanced our internal accounting systems and processes and our internal controls over financial reporting. This has required, and will continue to require, additional investments by us, and may require incremental resources and system configurations that could increase our operating costs in future periods. Further, as companies operate in compliance with ASC 606, its interpretation and application will likely evolve over time which could adversely impact our current and historical financial results and require further changes to our disclosures, internal systems and processes and internal controls. 39 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting