Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in the sections titled "Risk Factors" and "Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements" above for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The following discussion and analysis also includes a discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Overview We are a leading provider of digital banking and lending solutions to financial institutions, financial technology companies, or FinTechs, and alternative finance companies, or Alt-FIs, wanting to incorporate banking into their customer engagement and servicing strategies. Our solutions transform the ways in which financial institutions and other financial services providers engage with account holders and end users, or End Users. Our solutions include a broad and deep portfolio of digital banking solutions; digital lending and relationship pricing solutions; an open technology platform, the Q2 Innovation Studio, which is a portfolio of technologies and programs which can be leveraged to design, develop, and distribute innovative products, services, features, and integrations by enabling a partnership ecosystem on Q2's digital banking platform; and Helix, a comprehensive banking as a service, or BaaS, solution which also serves as a cloud-native core, both of which enable innovative companies and financial institutions to integrate unique banking products and services into their offerings. We purpose-build our platforms and solutions to enable success for our customers and technology partners by allowing them to digitize their operations and offerings, differentiate their digital brands, integrate traditional and emerging financial services, and ultimately, enhance their End-User acquisition, engagement and retention and improve their operational efficiencies and profitability. Significant resources, personnel and expertise are required to effectively deliver and manage advanced digital banking and lending solutions in the complex and heavily regulated financial services industry. We provide digital solutions that are designed to be highly configurable, scalable and adaptable to the specific needs of our customers. We design and develop our solutions with an open platform approach intended to provide comprehensive integration among our solution offerings and our customers' internal and third-party systems. This integrated approach allows our customers to deliver unified and robust financial experiences across digital channels. Our solutions provide our customers the flexibility to configure their digital services in a manner that is consistent with each customer's specific offerings, workflows, processes and controls. Our solutions also allow our customers to personalize the digital experiences they deliver to their End Users by extending their individual services and brand requirements across digital channels. Our solutions and our data center infrastructure and resources are designed to comply with the stringent security and technical regulations applicable to financial institutions and financial services providers and to safeguard our customers' data and that of their End Users. We have deep domain expertise in developing and delivering advanced digital banking and lending solutions designed to help our customers and technology partners compete in the complex and heavily regulated financial services industry. Over 19 years ago, Q2 began by providing digital banking solutions to RCFIs. We have rapidly grown since then through a combination of broad market acceptance of our award-winning solutions and relentless innovation, investment and acquisitions. Our collection of solutions now spans digital banking, digital lending and relationship pricing, digital account opening, regulatory and compliance, account switching, data-driven sales enablement, spending insights and portfolio management, and we serve account holders and borrowers across retail, SMB, and commercial segments, in addition to our open platform solutions and BaaS offerings. While we remain focused on our founding mission of building stronger and more diverse communities by strengthening their financial institutions, we intend to draw on our broad product portfolio and deep domain expertise to both further penetrate the digital banking market and drive meaningful expansion activity within our robust customer base across financial services. The financial services industry is experiencing significant transformation driven by the growing demand within financial institutions to digitize their operations and offerings, as well as the rise of FinTechs and Alt-FIs, which are reshaping End User expectations for more innovative and engaging digital financial experiences. These shifts are leading to new roles and interdependencies among financial institutions, FinTechs and Alt-FIs, necessitating new technology, partnerships, and business models. We believe that lasting value creation in financial services will be achieved by those companies that are capable of supporting and enhancing this convergence. We have developed a comprehensive suite of solutions to accelerate and optimize this convergence, ranging from digitizing entire banks to facilitating partnerships between financial institutions, FinTechs, and Alt-FIs. 59 Table of Contents We deliver our solutions to most of our customers using a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model under which our customers pay subscription fees for the use of our solutions. Our digital banking platform customers have numerous End Users, and those End Users can represent one or more account holders registered to use one or more of our solutions on our digital banking platform. We generally price our digital banking platform solutions based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers and the number of Registered Users (as defined below) or commercial account holders utilizing our solutions. We generally earn additional revenues from our digital banking platform customers based on the number of End Users on our solutions, the number of transactions that End Users perform on our solutions, and the excess number of users and transactions above what is included in our standard subscription fee. As a result, our revenues from digital banking platform customers grow as our customers buy more solutions from us and increase the number of End Users utilizing our solutions and as those users increase their number of transactions on our solutions. The structure and terms of our digital lending and relationship pricing arrangements vary, but generally are also sold on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. The structure and terms of our Helix arrangements with FinTechs vary, but typically involve relatively lower contracted minimum revenues and instead emphasize usage-based revenue, with such revenue recognized as it is incurred. We have achieved high growth since our inception. During each of the past 11 years, our average number of Registered Users per installed customer on our digital banking platform, or Installed Customer, has grown, and in many instances we have been able to sell additional solutions to existing customers. Our revenues per Installed Customer and per Registered User vary period-to-period based on the length and timing of customer implementations, changes in the average number of Registered Users per customer, sales of additional solutions to existing customers, changes in the number of transactions on our solutions by Registered Users and variations among existing customers and new customers with respect to the mix of purchased solutions and related pricing. Please see "Key Operating Measures" for additional detail on how we define "Installed Customers" and "Registered Users." We believe we have the opportunity to continue to grow our business and that the investments we are making are positioning us to continue to realize revenue growth and improve our operating efficiencies. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute dollar basis, but the timing and amount of these investments will vary based on the rate at which we expect to add new customers, the implementation and support needs of our customers, our software development plans, our technology and physical infrastructure requirements and the internal needs of our organization. Many of these investments will occur in advance of any associated benefit. If we are successful in growing our revenues by selling additional innovative solutions to existing customers and creating deeper End User engagement, we anticipate that greater economies of scale and increased operating leverage will improve our margins over the long term. We primarily sell our solutions through our direct sales organization. While the financial institutions market is well-defined due to the regulatory classifications of those financial institutions, markets for FinTechs and Alt-FIs are broader and more difficult to define due to the changing number of providers in each market. Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in additional sales representatives to identify and address opportunities in the financial institution, FinTech and Alt-FI markets across the U.S. and internationally and to increase our number of sales support and marketing personnel, as well as our investment in marketing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our solutions and generate new customer opportunities. We have continuously invested in expanding and improving our digital banking platform since we introduced it in 2005, and we intend to continue investing organically and to selectively pursue acquisitions of and strategic investments in technologies that will strengthen and expand the features and functionality of our solutions and provide access to new customers and new markets. Additionally, over the past several years we have acquired or developed new solutions and additional functionality that serve a broader range of needs of financial institutions as well as the needs of FinTechs and Alt-FIs. Our integrated, end-to-end collection of solutions includes retail, SMB and commercial banking, regulatory and compliance, digital lending and relationship pricing, open platform solutions, BaaS, digital account opening, account switching and data-driven sales enablement, spending insights and portfolio management solutions among others. We believe our solutions afford us a distinct competitive advantage, servicing retail, SMB and commercial needs and reflect the culmination of years of strategic development and innovation which in turn has solidified our competitive market position. We have also introduced the Q2 Innovation Studio, an API-based and SDK-based open technology platform that allows our financial institution customers and other technology partners to develop unique extensions of and integrations to our digital banking platform, allowing financial institutions to quickly and easily deploy customized experiences and the latest financial services expected by End Users. 60 Table of Contents We believe that financial services providers are best served by a broad integrated portfolio of digital solutions that provide rapid, flexible and comprehensive integration with internal and third-party solutions allowing them to provide modern, intuitive, advanced and regulatory-compliant digital banking and lending services. We also believe that the breadth and depth of our solution offerings and customer base, our open and flexible platform approach, our position as a leading provider of digital banking solutions to a large network of financial institutions, and our expertise in delivering new, advanced, innovative and regulatory-compliant digital banking and lending solutions uniquely position us to capitalize on the evolving needs and challenges within the financial services industry, enabling us to effectively innovate and adapt our offerings to meet the ever-changing demands of our customers and their End Users. We intend to increase investments in technology innovation and software development as we enhance our solutions and platforms and increase or expand the number of solutions that we offer. As our business grows, we intend to continue to invest in and grow our services and delivery organization to support our customers' needs, help them through their digital transformation, deliver our solutions in a timely and effective manner and maintain our strong reputation. We believe that delivery of consistent, high-quality customer support is a significant driver of purchasing and renewal decisions of our prospects and customers. To develop and maintain a reputation for high-quality service, we seek to build deep relationships with our customers through our customer service organization, which we staff with personnel who are motivated by our common mission of using technology to help our customers succeed and who are knowledgeable with respect to the regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry. Recent Events Global economic and business activities continue to face widespread macroeconomic uncertainties. We believe the combination of higher interest rates and inflation, tight labor markets, wage inflation, geopolitical uncertainty, and other macroeconomic conditions continues to put pressure on corporate growth initiatives. Higher interest rates and recession fears, or an actual recession, also can reduce account holder demand for loans and can reduce the creditworthiness of existing borrowers, resulting in higher credit losses for financial institutions. However, we believe that higher interest rates also have increased the importance for financial institutions to attract and retain depository relationships, which we believe has increased demand for our digital banking solutions. In recent periods we have observed improved subscription bookings and associated revenue primarily from our digital banking solutions as a result of macroeconomic conditions placing an importance on attracting and retaining deposits. Additionally, recent bank failures have created market disruption and uncertainty for the financial services industry, in particular among RCFIs. To date, a substantial majority of our revenues continue to result from sales of our digital banking platform to U.S. based RCFIs. The actions taken by such institutions to address potential liquidity concerns have resulted in certain institutions incurring substantial costs that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, their profitability and could lead to further market instability or bank failures. The current market conditions, including deteriorating performance of loan portfolios, capital constraints due to more stringent reserve requirements, and elevated levels of direct losses and charge-offs for some financial institutions, have also caused and may continue to cause financial institutions to reduce lending activity as they seek to increase their reserves to maintain better liquidity. While the U.S. government has taken measures to strengthen public confidence in the banking system and protect depositors, such steps may be insufficient to resolve the volatility in the financial markets and reduce the risk of additional bank failures. We have a diversified customer base with no individual customer representing more than 3.5% of total revenue and our top 20 customers collectively accounting for less than 23% of total revenue, each for the year ended December 31, 2023. In recent periods, we have observed a decline in customer demand relative to our expectations for certain discretionary aspects of our solutions, namely professional services, which we believe may be related to challenging macroeconomic conditions. We have also observed a decline in transactional and other revenue from our Helix and payment solutions, resulting from decreased usage. We expect these trends to continue in 2024, or until the macroeconomic conditions and the health of the financial services industry improves. Further, as a result of continued macroeconomic uncertainty, starting in the second half of 2022, we began implementing certain measures to drive efficiencies in the organization and improve the scaling of expenses relative to revenue growth. In 2023, we increased the efficiency of our global workforce structure in order to reduce certain of our personnel related expenditures. We expect to continue to have lower expense growth relative to revenue growth into 2024 and beyond. The duration and severity of these general economic conditions and their long-term effects on us and our customers remain uncertain and difficult to predict. Refer to "Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" above for further discussion of the impact and possible future impacts of general macroeconomic uncertainty and the current challenges facing the financial services industry on our business. 61 Table of Contents Key Operating Measures In addition to the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, measures described below in "Components of Operating Results," we monitor the following operating measures to evaluate growth trends, plan investments and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Installed Customers We define Installed Customers as the number of customers on live implementations (or installations) of our digital banking platforms. The average size of our Installed Customers, measured in both Registered Users per Installed Customer and revenues per Installed Customer, has increased over time as our existing Installed Customers continue to add Registered Users and commercial account holders, buy more solutions from us, and as we add larger financial institutions to our Installed Customer base. The net rate at which we add Installed Customers varies based on our implementation capacity, the size and unique needs of our customers, the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions and customer attrition, including as a result of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions. We had 450, 444 and 448 Installed Customers on our digital banking platform as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Registered Users We define a Registered User as an individual related to an account holder of an Installed Customer on our consumer digital banking platform who has registered to use one or more of our digital banking solutions and has current access to use those solutions as of the last day of the reporting period presented. We generally price our consumer digital banking platform solutions based on the number of Registered Users, while our commercial digital banking platform solutions are priced using various methodologies. As the number of Registered Users of our solutions increases, our revenues generally tend to grow. Our average number of Registered Users per Installed Customer grows as our existing digital banking platform customers add more Registered Users and as we add larger financial institutions to our Installed Customer base. We anticipate that the number of Registered Users will grow at a faster rate than our number of Installed Customers, however this will be offset as our commercial digital banking platform represents a greater proportion of our Installed Customers solutions without the associated Registered User impact. The rate at which our customers add Registered Users varies significantly from period-to-period based on the timing of our implementations of new customers, the timing of registration of new End Users and customers performing inactive account clean-up. We add new Registered Users through both organic and inorganic growth from existing customers and from the addition of End Users from new Installed Customers. Our aggregate number of Registered Users is negatively impacted to the extent Installed Customers terminate all or a portion of their arrangements with us. Our Installed Customers had approximately 22.0 million, 21.1 million and 19.2 million Registered Users as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net Revenue Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our customers and expand their use of our products and services over time is an indicator of the stability of our revenue base and the long-term value of our customer relationships. One of the ways we assess our performance in this area is by using a metric we refer to as our net revenue retention rate, which we previously referred to as our revenue retention rate. We calculate our net revenue retention rate as the total revenues in a calendar year, excluding any revenues from acquired customers during such year, from customers who were implemented on any of our solutions as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of the total revenues during the prior year from the same group of customers. Our net revenue retention rate provides insight into the impact on current year revenues of: the number of new customers implemented on any of our solutions during the prior year; the timing of our implementation of those new customers in the prior year; growth in the number of End Users on such solutions and changes in their usage of such solutions; and sales of new products and services to our existing customers during the current year, excluding any products or services resulting from businesses acquired during such year and customer attrition. The most significant drivers of changes in our net revenue retention rate each year have historically been the number of new customers in the prior year and the timing of our implementation of those new customers. The timing of our implementation of new customers in the prior year is significant because we do not start recognizing revenues from new customers until they are implemented. If implementations are weighted more heavily in the first or second half of the prior year, our net revenue retention rate will be lower or higher, respectively. In the first half of 2021, our implementations were weighted more heavily, and we experienced a lower net revenue retention rate in 2022 as a result. The continued strength observed in subscription revenue derived from our existing customers, offset by the expected decline in discretionary services revenue with some of our existing customers was reflected in the decline in net revenue retention rate in 2023. Our use of net revenue retention rate has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate net revenue retention rate differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Our net revenue retention rate was 108%, 110% and 119% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 62 Table of Contents Annualized Recurring Revenue In addition to Total Annual Recurring Revenue, which we previously referred to as ARR, in the third quarter of 2023, we began reporting Subscription Annual Recurring Revenue, or Subscription ARR. We believe Subscription ARR, and Total Annual Recurring Revenue, or Total ARR, provide important information about our future revenue potential, our ability to acquire new clients, and our ability to maintain and expand our relationship with existing clients. We calculate Subscription ARR as the annualized value of all recurring subscription revenue recognized in the last month of the reporting period, with the exception of variable revenue in excess of contracted amounts for which we instead take the average monthly run rate of the trailing three months within that reporting period. Our Subscription ARR also includes the contracted minimum subscription amounts associated with all contracts in place at the end of the quarter for which revenue recognition has not yet commenced. Subscription revenues are defined within "Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgements and Estimates." We calculate Total ARR as the annualized value of all recurring revenue recognized in the last month of the reporting period, with the exception of variable revenue in excess of contracted amounts for which we instead take the average monthly run rate of the trailing three months within that reporting period. Our Total ARR also includes the contracted minimums associated with all contracts in place at the end of the quarter for which revenue recognition has not yet commenced, and revenue generated from Premier Services. Premier Services revenue is generated from select established customer relationships where we have engaged with the customer for more tailored, premium professional services resulting in a deeper and ongoing level of engagement with them, which we deem to be recurring in nature. Total ARR does not include revenue from professional services or other sources of revenue that are not deemed to be recurring in nature. Subscription and Total ARR are not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. Subscription and Total ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as Subscription and Total ARR are operating metrics and are not intended to be combined with or replace these items. Our use of Subscription and Total ARR has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate Subscription ARR and Total ARR differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Our Subscription ARR was $593.9 million, $500.9 million and $426.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our Total ARR was $734.8 million, $655.2 million and $574.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Revenue Churn We utilize revenue churn to monitor the satisfaction of our customers and evaluate the effectiveness of our business solutions and strategies. We define revenue churn as the amount of any monthly recurring revenue losses due to customer cancellations and downgrades, net of upgrades and replacements of existing solutions, during a year, divided by our monthly recurring revenue at the end of the prior year. Cancellations refer to customers that have either stopped using our services completely or remained a customer but terminated a particular service. Downgrades are a result of customers taking less of a particular service or renewing their contract for identical services at a lower price. We had annual revenue churn of 6.1%, 6.3% and 5.4% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our use of revenue churn has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate revenue churn differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures to clarify and enhance our understanding, and aid in the period-to-period comparison, of our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide supplemental information that is meaningful when assessing our operating performance because they exclude the impact of certain categories that our management and board of directors do not consider part of core operating results when assessing our operational performance, allocating resources, preparing annual budgets and determining compensation. Accordingly, these non-GAAP financial measures may provide insight to investors into the motivation and decision-making of management in operating the business. Set forth in the tables below are the corresponding GAAP financial measures for each non-GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure included below. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, their most comparable GAAP measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in their financing and accounting methods, the book value of their assets, their capital structures, the method by which their assets were acquired and the manner in which they define non-GAAP measures. Items such as the deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of acquired intangible assets and lease and other restructuring charges can have a material impact on our GAAP financial results. 63 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Revenue We define non-GAAP revenue as total revenue excluding the impact of purchase accounting. We monitor these measures to assess our performance because we believe our revenue growth rates would be understated without these adjustments. We believe presenting non-GAAP revenue aids in the comparability between periods and in assessing our overall operating performance. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Revenue: GAAP revenue $ 624,624 $ 565,673 $ 498,720 Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 344 644 2,129 Total Non-GAAP revenue $ 624,968 $ 566,317 $ 500,849 Non-GAAP Operating Income We provide non-GAAP operating income that excludes such items as deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of acquired intangible assets and lease and other restructuring charges. We believe excluding these items is useful for the following reasons: Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes the deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting. We believe that the exclusion of deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations. Amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to purchased technology and intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. We believe that eliminating these expenses from our non-GAAP measures is useful to investors, because the amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets can be inconsistent in amount and frequency and significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisition transactions, which also vary in frequency from period to period. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period, both with and without such expenses. Stock-based compensation. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to stock-based compensation. We believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense provides for a better comparison of our operating results to prior periods and to our peer companies as the calculations of stock-based compensation vary from period to period and company to company due to different valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation, we exclude these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. Transaction-related costs. We exclude certain expense items resulting from our evaluation and completion of merger and acquisition and divestiture opportunities, such as related legal, accounting and consulting fees and retention expense. We consider these adjustments, to some extent, to be unpredictable and dependent on a significant number of factors that are outside of our control. Furthermore, transaction-related activities result in operating expenses that would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our organic business operations. We believe that providing these non-GAAP measures that exclude transaction-related costs allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to our historical results and results of less acquisitive peer companies, both with and without such adjustments. Lease and other restructuring charges. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes restructuring charges related to the estimated costs of exiting and terminating facility lease commitments, partially offset by anticipated sublease income, any related impairments of the right of use assets as they relate to corporate restructuring and exit activities, as well as severance and other related compensation charges associated with eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. These charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in the future, we believe that eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. 64 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 GAAP operating loss $ (86,057) $ (104,761) $ (77,995) Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 344 644 2,129 Stock-based compensation 79,188 65,157 54,334 Transaction-related costs 24 1,194 3,099 Amortization of acquired technology 23,402 22,690 21,969 Amortization of acquired intangibles 20,667 18,248 17,901 Lease and other restructuring charges 12,092 13,225 2,008 Non-GAAP operating income $ 49,660 $ 16,397 $ 23,445 Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss before depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, provision for income taxes, interest and other (income) expense, net, deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, (gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, and lease and other restructuring charges. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results for the following reasons: adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a company's operating performance with and without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing, capital structures and the method by which assets were acquired; our management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP financial measures for planning purposes, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, as a measure of our operating performance, to assess the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance; adjusted EBITDA provides more consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our operations and also facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results; and our investor and analyst presentations include adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our overall operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net loss or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The use of adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool has limitations such as: depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, and the assets being depreciated or amortized will often have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA may not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that could reduce cash available for use; and other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. 65 Table of Contents Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA together with our GAAP financial measures including cash flow from operations and net loss. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (65,384) $ (108,983) $ (112,746) Depreciation and amortization 71,707 61,659 54,833 Stock-based compensation 79,188 65,157 54,334 Transaction-related costs 24 1,194 3,099 Provision for income taxes 3,562 2,908 1,643 Interest and other (income) expense, net (4,724) 1,087 31,063 Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 344 644 2,129 (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt (19,869) 1,513 Lease and other restructuring charges 12,092 13,225 2,008 Adjusted EBITDA $ 76,940 $ 36,891 $ 37,876 Components of Operating Results Revenues Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in either our data centers or with cloud-based service providers, transactional revenue from bill-pay solutions, revenues for professional services and implementation services related to our solutions and certain third-party related pass-through fees. We recognize the corresponding revenues over time on a ratable basis over the customer agreement term or as incurred based on the nature of the revenue. A small portion of our revenues are derived from customers which host and manage our solutions on-premises or in third-party data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. We recognize software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license, which generally occurs at the start of each license term. We recognize the remaining arrangement consideration for maintenance revenue over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Subscription fees are based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the number of End Users using the solutions and other usage fees those users generate using our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. Subscription fees are billed monthly, quarterly or annually and are recognized monthly over the term of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. The structure and terms of our digital lending and relationship pricing arrangements vary, but generally are also sold on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. The structure and terms of our Helix arrangements with FinTechs vary, but typically involve relatively lower contracted minimum revenues and instead emphasize usage-based revenue, with such revenue recognized as it is incurred. We begin recognizing subscription fees when the control of the service transfers to the customer, generally when the solution is implemented and made available to the customer. We recognize revenue for debit card and bill-pay related transaction services generated when End Users utilize debit cards integrated with our Helix products and other payment services in the month incurred based on actual or estimated transactions. The timing of our implementations varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We typically recognize any related implementation services revenues ratably over the initial customer agreement term beginning on the date we commence recognizing subscription fees. Contract asset balances arise primarily when we provide services in advance of billing for those services. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable, and in revenues or deferred revenues, depending on when control of the service transfers to the customer. We continue to monitor the impacts that higher interest rates, the current inflationary environment, challenges in the financial services industry, and global macroeconomic uncertainty may have on our business. In recent periods, we have observed a decline in customer demand relative to our expectations for certain discretionary aspects of our solutions, namely professional services, which we believe may be related to challenging macroeconomic conditions. We have also observed a decline in transactional and other revenue from our Helix and payment solutions, resulting from decreased usage. We expect these trends to continue in 2024, or until the macroeconomic conditions and the health of the financial services industry improves. In recent periods we have observed improved subscription bookings and associated revenue primarily from our digital banking solutions as a result of macroeconomic conditions placing an importance on attracting and retaining deposits. As 66 Table of Contents of December 31, 2023, our subscription revenue growth was 16% year over year, and we expect subscription revenue will continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue contribution. The recent challenging macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the financial services industry continue to be highly unpredictable and may continue to disrupt any seasonality trends that may otherwise typically be inherent in our historical operating results. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for employees providing services to our customers. This includes the costs of our personnel performing implementation, customer support, data center and customer training activities. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, the amortization of deferred solution and services costs, amortization of certain software development costs, co-location facility costs and depreciation of our data center assets, debit card related pass-through fees, cloud-based hosting services, an allocation of general overhead costs, the amortization of acquired technology intangibles and referral fees. We allocate general overhead expenses to all departments based on the number of employees in each department, which we consider to be a fair and representative means of allocation. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for an implementation once revenue recognition commences, and we amortize those implementation costs to cost of revenues over the expected period of customer benefit, which has been determined to be the estimated life of the technology. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We capitalize certain software development costs for those employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to developing our software solutions on an individual product basis, including those related to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams, as well as third-party development costs. Software development costs are amortized to cost of revenues when products and enhancements are released or made available over the products' estimated economic lives. We intend to continue to increase our investments in our implementation and customer support teams and technology infrastructure to serve our customers and support our growth. Over the long term, we expect cost of revenues to continue to grow in absolute dollars as we grow our business but to fluctuate as a percentage of revenues based principally on cost efficiencies realized in the business, the level and timing of implementation support activities, timing of capitalized software development costs, debit card related pass-through fees, and other related costs. Operating Expenses Operating expenses primarily consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. They also include costs related to our acquisitions and the resulting amortization of acquired intangible assets from those acquisitions. Over the long term, we intend to continue to hire new employees and make other investments to support our anticipated growth. As a result, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of revenues over the long term as we grow our business. We have from time-to-time experienced difficulty in hiring, training and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications, resulting in difficulty managing personnel costs due to competition for talent and the related pressure to improve employee benefits and compensation to remain competitive. Further, as a result of continued macroeconomic uncertainty, starting in the second half of 2022, we began implementing certain measures to drive efficiencies in the organization and improve the scaling of expenses relative to revenue growth. In 2023, we increased the efficiency of our global workforce structure in order to reduce certain of our personnel related expenditures. We expect to continue to have lower expense growth relative to revenue growth into 2024 and beyond. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including commissions, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to advertising, lead generation, promotional events, corporate communications, travel and allocated overhead. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues will change in any given period based on several factors including the addition of newly hired sales professionals, the number and timing of newly installed customers and the amount of sales commissions expense amortized related to those customers. Commissions are generally capitalized and then amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Sales and marketing expenses are impacted by the timing of significant marketing programs such as our annual in-person client conference, which we typically hold during the second quarter of each year. 67 Table of Contents Research and Development We believe that continuing to improve and enhance our solutions is essential to maintaining our reputation for innovation and growing our customer base and revenues. Research and development expenses include salaries and personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, software development costs, allocated overhead and other related expenses incurred in developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions. Certain research and development costs that are related to our software development, which include salaries and other personnel-related costs, comprised of employee benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses attributed to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions, are capitalized and included in intangible assets, net on the consolidated balance sheets. We intend to continue our investments in our software development teams and the associated technology in order to serve our customers and support our growth. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, legal, human resources employees and certain members of our executive team. General and administrative expenses also include consulting and professional fees, insurance, travel and other corporate expenses. We expect to continue to incur incremental expenses associated with the growth of our business and to meet increased compliance requirements associated with operating as a regulated, public company. These expenses include costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations governing public companies, increased costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance and investor relations activities. Transaction-Related Costs Transaction-related costs include compensation expenses related to milestone provisions and retention agreements with certain former shareholders and employees of acquired businesses, which are recognized as earned, and various legal and professional service expenses incurred in connection with merger and acquisition and divestiture related matters, which are recognized when incurred. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Amortization of acquired intangibles represents the amortization of intangibles recorded in connection with our business acquisitions which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Lease and Other Restructuring Charges Lease and other restructuring charges include costs related to the early vacating of certain facilities, any related impairment of the right of use assets and ongoing expenses of other vacated facilities, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from the associated facilities, as well as severance and other related compensation charges associated with eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and expense, other non-operating income and expense, loss on disposal of long-lived assets, foreign currency translation adjustment and gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt. We earn interest income on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest from the amortization of debt issuance costs and coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes issued in February 2018, or 2023 Notes, our convertible notes issued in June 2019, or 2026 Notes and our convertible notes issued in November 2020, or 2025 Notes, as well as fees and interest associated with the letter of credit issued to our landlord for the security deposit for our corporate headquarters. Provision for Income Taxes As a result of our current net operating loss position, our income tax expenses and benefits consist primarily of state current income tax expense, deferred income tax expense relating to the tax amortization of recently acquired goodwill and current income tax expense from foreign operations. 68 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. In accordance with GAAP, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results might differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we believe that the accounting policies discussed below involve the greatest degree of complexity and exercise of significant judgments and estimates by our management. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations and, accordingly, we believe the policies described below are the most critical for understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services over the term of the agreement, generally when our solutions are implemented and made available to our customers. The promised consideration may include fixed amounts, variable amounts or both. Revenues are recognized net of sales credits and allowances. Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in either our data centers or with cloud-based service providers, transactional revenue from bill-pay solutions, revenues for professional services and implementation services related to our solutions and certain third-party related pass-through fees. Subscription Revenues Our software solutions are available for use as hosted application arrangements under subscription fee agreements without licensing rights to the software. Subscription fees from these applications, including contractual periodic price increases, are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the customer agreement term beginning on the date our solution is made available to the customer. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and deferred revenues or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Periodic price increases are estimated at contract inception where appropriate and result in contract assets as revenue recognition may exceed the amount billed early in the contract. Additional fees for monthly usage above the levels included in the standard subscription fee are recognized as revenue in the month when the usage amounts are determined and reported. A small portion of our customers host and manage our solutions on-premises or in third-party data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. Term licenses sold with maintenance entitle the customer to technical support, upgrades and updates to the software on a when-and-if-available basis. We recognize software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license, which generally occurs at the start of each license term. We recognize the remaining arrangement consideration for maintenance revenue over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Revenues from term licenses and maintenance agreements were not significant in the periods presented. Transactional Revenues We generate a majority of our transactional revenues based on the number of bill-pay transactions that End Users initiate on our digital banking platform. We also generate a portion of our transactional revenues from third-party fees related to End Users utilizing remote deposit products and from fees generated when End Users utilize debit cards integrated with our Helix products. We recognize revenue for transaction services in the month incurred based on actual or estimated transactions. Services and Other Revenues Implementation services are required for new digital banking and lending and other standalone contracts, and there is a significant level of integration and configuration for each customer. Our revenue for implementation services is billed upfront and generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the customer's term for our hosted application agreements. Implementation services for on-premises agreements are recognized at commencement date. Under certain circumstances, we have determined that these implementation services qualify as a separate performance obligation in certain markets and geographies, and the implementation services for these agreements are recognized over time as services are performed. 69 Table of Contents Professional services revenues consist primarily of Premier Services. Premier Services revenue is generated from select established customer relationships where we have engaged with the customer for more tailored, premium professional services, resulting in a deeper and ongoing level of engagement with them. Professional services revenues also consist of custom services, core conversion services and other general professional services. These revenues are generally billed and recognized when delivered. Other Revenues also include certain third-party related pass-through fees primarily in our Helix business that are not transactional in nature. Certain out-of-pocket expenses billed to customers are recorded as revenues rather than an offset to the related expense. Significant Judgments Performance Obligations and Standalone Selling Price A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of accounting. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. We have contracts with customers that often include multiple performance obligations, usually including multiple subscription and implementation services. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations that are separately identifiable by allocating the contract's total transaction price to each performance obligation in an amount based on the relative standalone selling price, or SSP, of each distinct good or service in the contract. In determining whether implementation services are distinct from subscription services, we considered various factors including the significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the implementation and subscription service, as well as the inability of the customer's personnel or other service providers to perform significant portions of the services. We have concluded that the implementation services included in contracts with multiple performance obligations across the majority of our markets and product offerings are not distinct and, as a result, we defer any arrangement fees for implementation services and recognize such amounts over time on a ratable basis as one performance obligation with the underlying subscription revenue for the initial agreement term of the hosted application agreements. We have concluded that for some of our products in certain markets the implementation services included in contracts with multiple performance obligations are distinct and, as a result, we recognize implementation fees on such arrangements over time as services are performed. The majority of our revenue recognized at a particular point in time is for usage revenue, on-premise software licenses and certain professional services. These services are recognized as the customer obtains control of the asset, as services are performed, or the point the customer obtains control of the software. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation.A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. We determine SSP based on overall pricing objectives and strategies, taking into consideration entity-specific factors, including the value of our contracts, historical standalone sales, customer demographics and the numbers and types of users within our contracts. Variable Consideration We recognize usage revenue related to End Users accessing our products in excess of contracted amounts and from fees that End Users generate using our solutions. Judgment is required to determine the accounting for these types of revenue. We consider various factors including the degree to which usage is interdependent or interrelated to past services, costs to us per user over the contract, and contractual price per user changes and their relationship to market terms, forecasted data, and our cost to fulfill the obligation. We have concluded that our usage revenue relates specifically to the transfer of the service to the customer and is consistent with the allocation objective of Topic 606 when considering all of the performance obligations and payment terms in the contract. Therefore, we recognize usage revenue on a monthly or quarterly basis in accordance with the agreement, as determined and reported. This allocation reflects the amount we expect to receive for the services for the given period. We sometimes provide credits or incentives to our customers. Known and estimable credits and incentives represent a form of variable consideration, which are estimated at contract inception and generally result in reductions to revenues recognized for a particular contract. These estimates are updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration as of December 31, 2023. 70 Table of Contents Other Considerations We evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis) with respect to the vendor reseller agreements pursuant to which we resell certain third-party solutions along with our solutions. Generally, we report revenues from these types of contracts on a gross basis, meaning the amounts billed to customers are recorded as revenues, and expenses incurred are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we first obtain control of the inputs to the specific good or service and direct their use to create the combined output. Our control is evidenced by our involvement in the integration of the good or service on our platform before it is transferred to our customers and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing. Revenues provided from agreements in which we are an agent are insignificant. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation includes grants of stock options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, performance-based restricted stock units, and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP, and is used to compensate employees, directors and consultants. All awards are measured at fair value on grant date and forfeitures are recognized as they occur. We value RSUs at the closing market price on the date of grant. RSUs typically vest in equal installments over a four-year period and compensation expense is recognized straight-line over the requisite service period. We value stock options and purchase rights under the ESPP using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs including the risk-free interest rate, expected term and expected volatility and we assume no dividend yield. Generally, options vest 25% on the one-year anniversary of the grant date with the balance vesting monthly over the following 36 months. Our ESPP has two six-month offering periods which commence on each June 1 and December 1. We recognize compensation expense straight-line over the requisite service period for stock options and over the withholding period for the ESPP. We grant performance-based restricted stock units which provide for shares of common stock to be earned based on our total stockholder return, or TSR, performance relative to the TSR performance of specified stock indexes, or TSR PSUs, and previously referred to as Market Stock Units, or MSUs. We value TSR PSUs and MSUs on grant date using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The determination of fair value is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions including the expected volatility and the risk-free interest rate. Our expected volatility at the date of grant is based on the historical volatilities of our stock and peer firms' stocks and the Index over the performance period. We assume no dividend yield and recognize compensation expense ratably over the performance period of the award, as applicable. TSR PSUs and MSUs vest based on TSR relative to the TSR as set forth in the award agreement. The minimum percentage that can vest is 0%, with a maximum percentage of 200%. TSR PSUs and MSUs will vest over two-year and three-year performance periods. We recognize compensation expense using the graded attribution method on a straight-line basis over the performance period for each award, as applicable. We also grant performance-based restricted stock units which provide for shares of common stock to be earned based on our attainment of Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of non-GAAP Revenue relative to a target specified in the applicable agreement, or EBITDA PSUs. We value EBITDA PSUs at the closing market price on the date of grant. The minimum percentage of EBITDA PSUs that can vest is 0%, with a maximum percentage of 200%. The vesting of EBITDA PSUs is conditioned upon the achievement of certain internal targets and will vest over a two-year and three-year performance period. We recognize compensation expense using the accelerated attribution method over the performance period, if it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. Adjustments to compensation expense are made each reporting period based on changes in our estimate of the number of EBITDA PSUs that are probable of vesting. Purchase Price Allocation, Intangible Assets and Goodwill The purchase price allocation for business combinations and asset acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values. We determine whether substantially all the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If this threshold is met, the single asset or group of assets, as applicable, is not a business. If it is not met, we determine whether the single asset or group of assets, as applicable, meets the definition of a business. In connection with our business combinations, we recorded certain intangible assets, including acquired technology, customer relationships, trademarks and non-compete agreements. Amounts allocated to the acquired intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. We periodically review the estimated useful lives and fair values of our identifiable intangible assets, taking into consideration any events or circumstances which might result in a diminished fair value or revised useful life. 71 Table of Contents The excess purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment annually in October, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. Because we operate as a single reporting unit, the impairment test is performed at the consolidated entity level by comparing our estimated fair value to our carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting unit using a "step one" analysis using a fair-value-based approach based on market capitalization to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Determining the fair value of goodwill is subjective in nature and often involves the use of estimates and assumptions including, without limitation, use of estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur impairment charges in a future period. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Impairment of long-lived assets such as property and equipment, acquired intangible assets, capitalized software development costs and right of use assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its fair value. 72 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Revenues(1) $ 624,624 $ 565,673 $ 498,720 Cost of revenues(2) 321,973 309,328 273,685 Gross profit 302,651 256,345 225,035 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 109,522 108,214 85,564 Research and development 137,334 130,103 116,952 General and administrative 110,186 90,163 77,915 Transaction-related costs 24 1,176 2,690 Amortization of acquired intangibles 20,667 18,248 17,901 Lease and other restructuring charges 10,975 13,202 2,008 Total operating expenses 388,708 361,106 303,030 Loss from operations (86,057) (104,761) (77,995) Total other income (expense), net(3) 24,235 (1,314) (33,108) Loss before income taxes (61,822) (106,075) (111,103) Provision for income taxes (3,562) (2,908) (1,643) Net loss $ (65,384) $ (108,983) $ (112,746) ______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting of $0.3 million, $0.6 million and $2.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (2) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $23.4 million, $22.7 million and $22.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (3) Includes a gain of $19.9 million, a reduction of zero and a $1.5 million expense related to the early extinguishment of a portion of our convertible notes for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 73 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our results of operations data as a percentage of revenues for each of the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Revenues(1) 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues(2) 51.5 % 54.7 % 54.9 % Gross margin 48.5 % 45.3 % 45.1 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 17.5 % 19.1 % 17.2 % Research and development 22.0 % 23.0 % 23.5 % General and administrative 17.6 % 15.9 % 15.6 % Transaction-related costs % 0.2 % 0.5 % Amortization of acquired intangibles 3.3 % 3.2 % 3.6 % Lease and other restructuring charges 1.8 % 2.3 % 0.4 % Total operating expenses 62.2 % 63.8 % 60.8 % Loss from operations (13.8) % (18.5) % (15.6) % Total other income (expense), net(3) 3.9 % (0.2) % (6.6) % Loss before income taxes (9.9) % (18.8) % (22.3) % Provision for income taxes (0.6) % (0.5) % (0.3) % Net loss (10.5) % (19.3) % (22.6) %_______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting of 0.1%, 0.1% and 0.4% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (2) Includes amortization of acquired technology of 3.7%, 4.0% and 4.4% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (3) Includes a gain of 3.2%, a reduction of 0.0% and a 0.3% expense related to the early extinguishment of a portion of our convertible notes for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the line items in the tables above. 74 Table of Contents Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 A discussion regarding year-to-year comparisons between the year ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 is presented below. A discussion regarding year-to-year comparisons between the year ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Revenues The following table presents our revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Revenues $ 624,624 $ 565,673 $ 58,951 10.4 % Revenues increased by $59.0 million, or 10.4%, from $565.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $624.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $63.9 million increase in subscription revenue from the sale of additional solutions to new and existing customers and growth in Registered Users from new and existing customers, partially offset by a $2.0 million decrease in transactional revenue and a $3.0 million decrease in services and other revenue from declines in professional and discretionary services and pass-through revenue related to our Helix solutions. Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Cost of revenues $ 321,973 $ 309,328 $ 12,645 4.1 % Percentage of revenues 51.5 % 54.7 % Cost of revenues increased by $12.6 million, or 4.1%, from $309.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $322.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase was primarily attributable to a $7.8 million increase in co-location facility costs and depreciation for our data center assets resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support our growing customer base, a $6.6 million increase from the amortization of capitalized software development and capitalized implementation services, a $2.4 million increase in personnel costs, including an increase in the number of personnel who provide implementation and customer support services and maintain our data centers and other technical infrastructure and a $0.7 million increase from amortization of acquired customer technology resulting from the Sensibill business acquired in the fourth quarter of 2022, partially offset by a $2.3 million decrease in pass-through fees, a $2.0 million decrease in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs incurred and a $0.6 million decrease in overhead costs and other discretionary expenses. We continue to invest in personnel, business process improvement, third-party partners for intellectual property and transactional processing in our solutions and systems infrastructure to standardize our business processes and drive future efficiency in our implementations, cloud-based hosting services, customer support and data center operations. As we continue to make these investments, we expect they will increase cost of revenues in absolute dollars, and we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of revenue as our operations continue to scale and revenues grow. 75 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following tables present our operating expenses for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Sales and marketing $ 109,522 $ 108,214 $ 1,308 1.2 % Percentage of revenues 17.5 % 19.1 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.3 million, or 1.2%, from $108.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $109.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase was primarily attributable to a $0.9 million increase in personnel costs related to our sales and marketing organizations supporting current and projected bookings, expansion of our customer base, and revenue growth and a $0.5 million increase in travel-related expenses. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the long-term as we continue to support our revenue growth and increase marketing spend to attract new customers, retain and grow existing customers, build brand awareness, and as we continue to hold in-person sales formats and experiences for future user conferences, including our annual client conference typically held during the second quarter. While we anticipate sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue may fluctuate on a near-term basis, we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the long-term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Research and development $ 137,334 $ 130,103 $ 7,231 5.6 % Percentage of revenues 22.0 % 23.0 % Research and development expenses increased by $7.2 million, or 5.6%, from $130.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $137.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase was primarily attributable to a $14.3 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions and a $0.7 million increase in travel-related expenses, partially offset by a $7.9 million decrease as a result of increased capitalized software development costs. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to support and expand our platform and enhance our existing solutions, as we believe existing customers will have an increased focus on maintaining and improving their digital offerings. While we anticipate research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue may fluctuate on a near-term basis, we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the long-term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) General and administrative $ 110,186 $ 90,163 $ 20,023 22.2 % Percentage of revenues 17.6 % 15.9 % General and administrative expenses increased by $20.0 million, or 22.2%, from $90.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $110.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $13.2 million increase in personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, to support the growth of our business, a $6.6 million increase in professional services, including third-party legal fees and a $1.2 million increase in charitable contributions, partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in bad debt expense. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation and other personnel-related costs of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, legal, human resources employees and certain members of our executive team. General and administrative expenses also include costs to comply with regulations governing public companies and financial institutions, costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance, third-party legal fees, investor 76 Table of Contents relations activities and costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX. Over the long term, we anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to incur both increased external audit fees as well as additional spending to ensure continued regulatory and SOX compliance. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the longer term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. Transaction-Related Costs Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Transaction-related costs $ 24 $ 1,176 $ (1,152) (98.0) % Percentage of revenues % 0.2 % Transaction-related costs decreased by $1.2 million, or 98.0%, from $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $0.02 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Transaction-related costs are related to various legal and professional expenses incurred in connection with merger and acquisition and divestiture activities. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 20,667 $ 18,248 $ 2,419 13.3 % Percentage of revenues 3.3 % 3.2 % Amortization of acquired intangibles increased by $2.4 million, or 13.3%, from $18.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The acquired intangible assets are related to previously disclosed business combinations. Lease and Other Restructuring Charges Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Lease and other restructuring charges $ 10,975 $ 13,202 $ (2,227) (16.9) % Percentage of revenues 1.8 % 2.3 % Lease and other restructuring charges decreased by$2.2 million, or 16.9%, from $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $11.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the decrease in lease and other restructuring charges was primarily attributable to a net $4.2 million decrease related to the vacating of various facilities primarily during the year ended December 31, 2022, including the associated impairment of the right of use asset, updated assessments and ongoing expenses of these facilities, partially offset by sublease income, partially offset by a $2.0 million increase related to severance and other related compensation charges associated with eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Total other income (expense), net $ 24,235 $ (1,314) $ 25,549 (1,944.4) % Percentage of revenues 3.9 % (0.2) % Total other income (expense), net represented a net income of $24.2 million for the for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to a net expense of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The change was primarily due to a $19.9 million gain on the extinguishment of debt from the partial repurchase of the 2026 Notes and the 2025 Notes and a $6.0 million 77 Table of Contents increase in income from cash and investments, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in other income related to a favorable settlement of an ordinary course dispute recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 $ (%) Provision for income taxes $ (3,562) $ (2,908) $ (654) 22.5 % Percentage of revenues (0.6) % (0.5) % Total provision for income taxes increased by $0.7 million from $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in the tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 related to the operations of the business and an increase in net tax benefits from uncertain tax position releases related to Texas. Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our overall operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of investments to grow our business. The timing of our implementation activities and corresponding revenues from new customers are subject to fluctuations based on the timing of our sales. Historically, sales have tended to be lower in the first half of the year, but any resulting impact on our results of operation has been difficult to measure due to the timing of our implementations and overall growth in our business. The timing of our implementations also varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We continue to monitor the impacts that higher interest rates, the current inflationary environment, challenges in the financial services industry, and global macroeconomic uncertainty may have on our business. The recent challenging macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the financial services industry continue to be highly unpredictable and may continue to disrupt any seasonality trends that may otherwise typically be inherent in our historical operating results. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity We have financed our operations primarily through the proceeds from the issuance of common stock from our initial public offering in March 2014, additional registered common stock offerings, including our June 2019 and May 2020 common stock offerings, our February 2018 convertible note offering, our June 2019 convertible note offering, our November 2020 convertible note offering, and cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and investments of $324.0 million. Based upon our current levels of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations along with our other sources of liquidity, which include our ability to access capital markets, are adequate to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. However, if we determine the need for additional short-term liquidity, there is no assurance that such financing, if pursued, would be adequate or available on terms acceptable to us. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 70,292 $ 36,556 $ 31,092 Investing activities 113,268 (165,555) (65,129) Financing activities (152,012) 5,882 (51,160) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 182 (802) (167) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 31,730 $ (123,919) $ (85,364) 78 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by net loss less non-cash items, the amount and timing of customer receipts and vendor payments and by the amount of cash we invest in personnel and infrastructure to support the anticipated growth of our business and increase in the number of installed customers. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our net cash provided by operating activities was $70.3 million, which consisted of non-cash adjustments of $161.4 million, partially offset by a net loss of $65.4 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $25.7 million. The primary drivers of cash outflows in operating assets and liabilities were a $32.4 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs from both new customers and existing customer expansions, partially offset by a $8.9 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base and related growth in our technical infrastructure and accrual of annual bonuses to be paid during the first quarter of 2024. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, amortization of debt issuance costs and lease impairments, partially offset by a gain on extinguishment of debt. For the year ended December 31, 2022, our net cash provided by operating activities was $36.6 million, which consisted of non-cash adjustments of $166.0 million, partially offset by a net loss of $109.0 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $20.5 million. The primary driver of the changes in operating assets and liabilities related to a $19.8 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period and a $10.4 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base and related growth in our technical infrastructure and payment of annual bonuses during the first quarter. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, lease and other restructuring charges and amortization of debt issuance costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our net cash provided by operating activities was $31.1 million, which consisted of non-cash adjustments of $168.3 million, partially offset by a net loss of $112.7 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $24.5 million. The primary driver of the changes in operating assets and liabilities related to a $25.6 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs and loss on the early extinguishment of a portion of our convertible notes. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments, acquisitions of businesses, purchases of property and equipment to support our growth and costs incurred for the development of capitalized software. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash provided by investing activities was $113.3 million, consisting of $220.8 million received from the maturities of investments, partially offset by $76.9 million for the purchase of investments, $25.0 million in capitalized software development costs and $5.7 million for the purchase of property and equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities was $165.6 million, consisting of $293.0 million for the purchase of investments, $18.9 million in capitalized software development costs, $11.1 million for the purchase of property and equipment and $5.0 million for the acquisition of Sensibill, net of cash acquired. These outflows were partially offset by $162.5 million received from the maturities of investments. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities was $65.1 million, consisting of $124.0 million for the purchase of investments, $64.7 million for the acquisition of ClickSWITCH, net of cash acquired, $19.8 million for the purchase of property and equipment, and $5.9 million in capitalized software development costs. These outflows were partially offset by $149.2 million received from the maturities of investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our recent financing activities have consisted primarily of activity related to our convertible notes as well as net proceeds from exercises of options and contributions to our ESPP to purchase our common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $152.0 million, consisting of $149.6 million for the partial repurchase of the 2025 Notes and the 2026 Notes as well as $10.9 million in payment for maturity of the 2023 Notes, partially offset by $8.4 million of cash received from exercises of stock options and contributions to our ESPP for the purchase of our common stock. 79 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was $5.9 million, consisting of cash received from exercises of stock options and contributions to our ESPP for the purchase of our common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in financing activities was $51.2 million, consisting of $63.7 million for the partial repurchase of 2023 Notes, partially offset by $6.6 million of net proceeds received in connection with the early termination of bond hedges and warrants related to the 2023 Notes, and $5.9 million of cash received from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of the 2026 Notes, 2025 Notes, non-cancelable operating leases related to our facilities, minimum purchase commitments for sponsorship obligations, third-party products, co-location fees and other product costs. Our obligations under our convertible senior notes are described in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information regarding our non-cancellable lease and other purchase commitments as of December 31, 2023 can be found in Notes 10 and 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report, regarding the impact of certain recent accounting pronouncements.