Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in the sections titled "Risk Factors" and "Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements" above for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The following discussion and analysis also includes a discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Overview We are a leading provider of digital solutions to financial institutions, financial technology companies, or FinTechs, and alternative finance companies, or Alt-FIs, seeking to incorporate banking into their customer engagement and servicing strategies. Our solutions transform the ways in which financial institutions and other financial services providers engage with End Users. Our solutions comprise a broad and deep portfolio of digital banking solutions, digital lending and relationship pricing solutions, Q2 Innovation Studio, and Helix. Q2 Innovation Studio leverages Q2's open technology platform to enable a partnership ecosystem, allowing the design, development, and distribution of innovative products, services, features, and integrations on Q2's digital banking platform. Helix serves as a cloud-native core and banking as a service, or BaaS, solution. We purpose-build our platforms and solutions to enable success for our customers and partners by allowing them to digitize their operations and offerings, differentiate their digital brands, integrate traditional and emerging financial services, and ultimately, enhance their End-User acquisition, engagement and retention and improve their operational efficiencies and profitability. Significant resources, personnel and expertise are required to effectively deliver and manage advanced digital solutions in the complex and heavily regulated financial services industry. We provide digital solutions that are designed to be highly configurable, scalable and adaptable to the specific needs of our customers. We design and develop our solutions with an open platform approach intended to provide comprehensive integration among our solution offerings and our customers' internal and third-party systems. This integrated approach allows our customers to deliver unified and robust financial experiences across digital channels. Our solutions provide our customers the flexibility to configure their digital services in a manner that is consistent with each customer's specific offerings, workflows, processes and controls. Our solutions also allow our customers to personalize the digital experiences they deliver to their End Users by extending their individual services and brand requirements across digital channels. Our solutions and our data center and cloud-based hosting infrastructure and resources are designed to comply with the stringent security and technical regulations applicable to financial institutions and financial services providers and to safeguard our customers' data and that of their End Users. Founded over 20 years ago, Q2 began by providing digital banking solutions to domestic regional and community financial institutions, or RCFIs. We have rapidly grown since then through a combination of innovation, broad market acceptance of our solutions, strategic investments and acquisitions. Our expanded collection of solutions now spans digital banking, digital lending and relationship pricing, regulatory and compliance, risk and fraud, account switching, data-driven sales enablement, spending insights and portfolio management, and also includes our open platform solutions as well as our core and BaaS offerings. We serve account holders and borrowers across retail, SMBs, and commercial segments. While we continue to generate a substantial majority of our revenue from our digital banking platform, we are actively leveraging our broader product portfolio and deep domain expertise to expand our market presence. This strategy includes seeking to further penetrate the digital banking market and drive significant growth across our diverse customer base in the broader financial services sector, while opening up new and meaningful expansion opportunities for our business. The financial services industry is experiencing significant transformation driven by the growing demand within financial institutions to digitize their operations and offerings, as well as the rise of FinTechs and Alt-FIs, which are reshaping End-User expectations for more innovative and engaging digital financial experiences. These shifts are leading to new roles and interdependencies among financial institutions, FinTechs and Alt-FIs, necessitating new technology, partnerships, and business models. We believe that lasting value creation in financial services will be achieved by those companies that are capable of supporting and embracing these market dynamics. We have developed a comprehensive suite of offerings to accelerate and optimize this transformation for our customers, ranging from digitizing entire banks to facilitating partnerships between financial institutions, FinTechs, and Alt-FIs. 59 Table of Contents We offer our solutions to most of our customers using a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model under which our customers pay subscription fees for the use of our solutions. Our digital banking platform customers have numerous End Users, and those End Users can represent one or more account holders registered to use one or more of our solutions on our digital banking platform. We generally price our digital banking platform solutions based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers and the number of Registered Users, as defined in "Key Operating Measures"below, or commercial account holders utilizing our solutions. We generally earn additional revenues from our digital banking platform customers based on the number of End Users on our solutions, the number of transactions that End Users perform on our solutions, and the excess number of users and transactions above what is included in our standard subscription fee. As a result, our revenues from digital banking platform customers grow as our customers buy more solutions from us and increase the number of End Users utilizing our solutions and as those users increase their number of transactions on our solutions. The structure and terms of our digital lending and relationship pricing arrangements vary but generally are also sold on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. The structure and terms of our Helix arrangements with FinTechs vary but typically involve relatively lower contracted minimum revenues and instead emphasize usage-based revenue, with such revenue recognized as it is incurred. We believe we have the opportunity to continue to grow our business and that the investments we are making are positioning us to continue to realize revenue growth and improve our operating efficiencies. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute dollar basis, but the timing and amount of these investments will vary based on the rate at which we expect to add new customers, the implementation and support needs of our customers, our software development plans, our technology and physical infrastructure requirements and the internal needs of our organization. Many of these investments will occur in advance of any associated benefit. If we are successful in growing our revenues by selling additional innovative solutions to existing customers and creating deeper End-User engagement, we anticipate that greater economies of scale and increased operating leverage will improve our margins over the long term. We primarily sell our solutions through our direct sales organization. While the financial institutions market is well-defined due to the regulatory classifications of those financial institutions, markets for FinTechs and Alt-FIs are broader and more difficult to define due to the changing number of providers in each market. Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in additional sales representatives to identify and address opportunities in the financial institution, FinTech and Alt-FI markets across the U.S. and internationally and to increase our number of sales support and marketing personnel, as well as our investment in marketing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our solutions and generate new customer opportunities. We have continuously invested in expanding and improving our digital banking platform since we introduced it in 2005. We intend to continue investing organically and to selectively pursue acquisitions of and strategic investments in technologies that will strengthen and expand the features and functionality of our solutions and provide access to new customers and markets. We have also acquired or developed new solutions and additional functionality that serve a broader range of needs of financial institutions as well as the needs of FinTechs and Alt-FIs. Our portfolio of digital solutions includes a comprehensive suite of offerings for retail, SMB and commercial banking, onboarding, regulatory and compliance, risk and fraud, digital lending and relationship pricing, open platform solutions, BaaS, account switching and data-driven sales enablement, spending insights and portfolio management solutions, among others. We believe our portfolio, which reflects years of strategic development and innovation, affords us a distinct competitive advantage across multiple market segments. Additionally, Q2 Innovation Studio, an API-based and SDK-based open technology platform, allows our financial institution customers and other partners to develop unique extensions of and integrations to our digital banking platform, allowing financial institutions to quickly and easily deploy customized experiences and the latest financial services expected by End Users. We believe that financial services providers are best served by a broad portfolio of digital solutions offering rapid, flexible and comprehensive integration with internal and third-party solutions enabling them to deliver modern, intuitive, advanced and regulatory-compliant digital solutions. We also believe our unique position in the market stems from the breadth and depth of our solution offerings and customer base, our open and flexible platform approach, our position as a leading provider of digital banking solutions to a large network of financial institutions, and our expertise in delivering new, advanced, innovative and regulatory-compliant digital solutions. These strengths allow us to address the evolving needs and challenges within the financial services industry, as we continually innovate and adapt our offerings to meet the changing demands of our customers and their End Users. We intend to continue to make investments in technology innovation and software development to enhance our existing solutions and platforms while expanding our product portfolio. 60 Table of Contents As our business grows, we intend to continue to invest in and grow our services and delivery organization to support our customers' needs, help them through their digital transformation, deliver our solutions in a timely and effective manner and maintain our strong reputation. We believe that delivery of consistent, high-quality customer support is a significant driver of purchasing and renewal decisions of our prospects and customers. To develop and maintain a reputation for high-quality service, we seek to build deep relationships with our customers through our customer service organization, which we staff with personnel who are motivated by our common mission of using technology to help our customers succeed and who are knowledgeable with respect to the regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry. Key Operating Measures In addition to the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, measures described below in "Components of Operating Results," we monitor the following operating measures to evaluate growth trends, plan investments and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Installed Customers We define Installed Customers as the number of customers live on our digital banking platform. The average size of our Installed Customers, measured in both Registered Users per Installed Customer and revenues per Installed Customer, has increased over time as our existing Installed Customers continue to add Registered Users and commercial account holders, buy more solutions from us, and as we add larger financial institutions to our Installed Customer base. The net rate at which we add Installed Customers varies based on our implementation capacity, the size and unique needs of our customers, the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions and customer attrition, including as a result of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions. We had 460, 450 and 444 Installed Customers on our digital banking platform as of December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Registered Users We define a Registered User as an individual related to an account holder of an Installed Customer on our consumer digital banking platform who has registered to use one or more of our digital banking solutions and has current access to use those solutions as of the last day of the reporting period presented. Our average number of Registered Users per Installed Customer grows as our existing digital banking platform customers add more Registered Users and as we add larger financial institutions to our Installed Customer base. We anticipate that the number of Registered Users will grow at a faster rate than our number of Installed Customers. We add new Registered Users through both organic and inorganic growth from existing customers and from the addition of End Users from new Installed Customers. Our Installed Customers had approximately 24.7 million, 22.0 million and 21.1 million Registered Users as of December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 61 Table of Contents Net Revenue Retention Rates We believe that our ability to retain our customers and expand their use of our products and services over time is an indicator of the stability of our revenue base and the long-term value of our customer relationships. One of the ways we assess our performance in this area is through our net revenue retention rate and subscription net revenue retention rate, or collectively our net revenue retention rates. We calculate our net revenue retention rate as the total revenues in a calendar year, excluding any revenues from acquired customers during such year, from customers who were implemented on any of our solutions as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of the total revenues during the prior year from the same group of customers. Similarly, we calculate our subscription net revenue retention rate as total subscription revenues in a calendar year from customers who were implemented on any of our solutions as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of total subscription revenues for the prior year from the same group of customers. Our net revenue retention rates provide insight into the impact on current year revenues of: the number of new customers implemented on any of our solutions during the prior year; the timing of our implementation of those new customers in the prior year; growth in the number of End Users on such solutions and changes in their usage of such solutions; and sales of new products and services to our existing customers during the current year, excluding any products or services resulting from businesses acquired during such year and customer attrition. The most significant drivers of changes in our net revenue retention rates each year have historically been the number of new customers in the prior year and the timing of our implementation of those new customers. The timing of our implementation of new customers in the prior year is significant because we do not start recognizing revenues from new customers until they are implemented. As an example, if implementations are weighted more heavily in the first or second half of the prior year, both our net revenue retention rate and subscription net revenue retention rate will be lower or higher, respectively, in the subsequent year. Our use of net revenue retention rate and subscription net revenue retention rate have limitations as analytical tools, and investors should not consider them in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate net revenue retention rates differently, which reduces their usefulness as a comparative measure. Our net revenue retention rate was 109%, 108% and 110% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and our subscription net revenue retention rate was 114%, 112% and 115% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Annualized Recurring Revenue We believe Subscription Annual Recurring Revenue, or Subscription ARR, and Total Annual Recurring Revenue, or Total ARR, provide important information about our future revenue potential and our ability to maintain and expand our relationship with existing clients. We calculate Subscription ARR as the annualized value of all recurring subscription revenue recognized in the last month of the reporting period, with the exception of variable revenue in excess of contracted amounts for which we instead take the average monthly run rate of the trailing three months within that reporting period. Our Subscription ARR also includes the contracted minimum subscription amounts associated with all contracts in place at the end of the quarter for which revenue recognition has not yet commenced. Subscription revenues are defined within "Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgements and Estimates." We calculate Total ARR as the annualized value of all recurring revenue recognized in the last month of the reporting period, with the exception of variable revenue in excess of contracted amounts for which we instead take the average monthly run rate of the trailing three months within that reporting period. Our Total ARR also includes the contracted minimums associated with all contracts in place at the end of the quarter for which revenue recognition has not yet commenced, and revenue generated from Integrated Services, which we previously referred to as Premier Services. Integrated Services revenue is generated from select established customer relationships where we have engaged with the customer for more tailored, premium professional services resulting in a deeper and ongoing level of engagement with them, which we deem to be recurring in nature. Total ARR does not include revenue from professional services or other sources of revenue that are not deemed to be recurring in nature. Subscription and Total ARR are not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates. Subscription and Total ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as Subscription and Total ARR are operating metrics and are not intended to be combined with or replace these items. Our use of Subscription and Total ARR has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate Subscription ARR and Total ARR differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Our Subscription ARR was $681.9 million, $593.9 million and $500.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our Total ARR was $824.2 million, $734.8 million and $655.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Revenue Churn We utilize revenue churn to monitor the satisfaction of our customers and evaluate the effectiveness of our business solutions and strategies. We define revenue churn as the amount of any monthly recurring revenue losses due to customer cancellations and downgrades, net of upgrades and replacements of existing solutions, during a year, divided by our monthly recurring revenue at the end of the prior year. Cancellations refer to customers that have either stopped using our services 62 Table of Contents completely or remained a customer but terminated a particular service. Downgrades are a result of customers taking less of a particular service or renewing their contract for identical services at a lower price. We had annual revenue churn of 4.4%, 6.1% and 6.3% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our use of revenue churn has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate revenue churn differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures to clarify and enhance our understanding, and aid in the period-to-period comparison, of our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide supplemental information that is meaningful when assessing our operating performance because they exclude the impact of certain categories that our management and board of directors do not consider part of core operating results when assessing our operational performance, allocating resources, preparing annual budgets and determining compensation. Accordingly, these non-GAAP financial measures may provide insight to investors into the motivation and decision-making of management in operating the business. Set forth in the tables below are the corresponding GAAP financial measures for each non-GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to its most comparable GAAP financial measure included below. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures have limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, their most comparable GAAP measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in their financing and accounting methods, the book value of their assets, their capital structures, the method by which their assets were acquired and the manner in which they define non-GAAP measures. Items such as the deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of acquired intangible assets and lease and other restructuring charges can have a material impact on our GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP Revenue We define non-GAAP revenue as total revenue excluding the impact of purchase accounting. We monitor these measures to assess our performance because we believe our revenue growth rates would be understated without these adjustments. We believe presenting non-GAAP revenue aids in the comparability between periods and in assessing our overall operating performance. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, there was no impact of purchase accounting on revenue, and our non-GAAP total revenue is now equivalent to our GAAP total revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Revenue: GAAP revenue $ 696,464 $ 624,624 $ 565,673 Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 344 644 Total Non-GAAP revenue $ 696,464 $ 624,968 $ 566,317 Non-GAAP Operating Income We provide non-GAAP operating income that excludes such items as deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of acquired intangible assets and lease and other restructuring charges. We believe excluding these items is useful for the following reasons: Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes the deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting. We believe that the exclusion of deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations. Amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to purchased technology and intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. We believe that eliminating these expenses from our non-GAAP measures is useful to investors, because the amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets can be inconsistent in amount and frequency and significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisition transactions, which also vary in frequency from period to period. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period, both with and without such expenses. Stock-based compensation. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes expenses related to stock-based compensation. We believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense provides for a better comparison of 63 Table of Contents our operating results to prior periods and to our peer companies as the calculations of stock-based compensation vary from period to period and company to company due to different valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation, we exclude these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. Transaction-related costs. We exclude certain expense items resulting from our evaluation and completion of merger and acquisition and divestiture opportunities, such as related legal, accounting and consulting fees and retention expense. We consider these adjustments, to some extent, to be unpredictable and dependent on a significant number of factors that are outside of our control. Furthermore, transaction-related activities result in operating expenses that would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our organic business operations. We believe that providing these non-GAAP measures that exclude transaction-related costs allows users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historical and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to our historical results and results of less acquisitive peer companies, both with and without such adjustments. Lease and other restructuring charges. We provide non-GAAP information that excludes restructuring charges related to the estimated costs of exiting and terminating facility lease commitments, partially offset by anticipated sublease income, and any related impairments of the right of use assets as they relate to corporate restructuring and exit activities. It also excludes severance cash payouts and other related compensation associated with restructuring, departure of executive officers or eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. These charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in the future, we believe that eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 GAAP operating loss $ (42,263) $ (86,057) $ (104,761) Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 344 644 Stock-based compensation 89,215 79,188 65,157 Transaction-related costs 24 1,194 Amortization of acquired technology 22,016 23,402 22,690 Amortization of acquired intangibles 16,979 20,667 18,248 Lease and other restructuring charges 9,517 12,092 13,225 Non-GAAP operating income $ 95,464 $ 49,660 $ 16,397 Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss before deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation, transaction-related costs, depreciation, amortization, lease and other restructuring charges, provision for income taxes, gain on extinguishment of debt and interest and other (income) expense, net. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results for the following reasons: adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a company's operating performance with and without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing, capital structures and the method by which assets were acquired; our management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP financial measures for planning purposes, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, as a measure of our operating performance, to assess the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance; adjusted EBITDA provides more consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our operations and also facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results; and our investor and analyst presentations include adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our overall operating performance. 64 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net loss or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The use of adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool has limitations such as: depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, and the assets being depreciated or amortized will often have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA may not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that could reduce cash available for use; and other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, investors and others should consider adjusted EBITDA together with our GAAP financial measures including cash flow from operations and net loss. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (38,536) $ (65,384) $ (108,983) Deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting 344 644 Stock-based compensation 89,215 79,188 65,157 Transaction-related costs 24 1,194 Depreciation and amortization 68,809 71,707 61,659 Lease and other restructuring charges 9,517 12,092 13,225 Provision for income taxes 7,676 3,562 2,908 Gain on extinguishment of debt (19,869) Interest and other (income) expense, net (11,343) (4,724) 1,087 Adjusted EBITDA $ 125,338 $ 76,940 $ 36,891 Components of Operating Results Revenues Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in either our third-party data centers or with third-party public cloud service providers, transactional revenue from bill-pay solutions and remote deposit products, revenues for professional services and implementation services related to our solutions and certain third-party related pass-through fees. We recognize the corresponding revenues over time on a ratable basis over the customer agreement term or as incurred based on the nature of the revenue. A small portion of our revenues are derived from customers which host and manage our solutions on-premises or in third-party data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. For these customers, we recognize software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license, which generally occurs at the start of each license term, and recognize the remaining arrangement consideration for maintenance revenue over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Subscription fees are based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the number of End Users using the solutions and other usage fees those users generate by using our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. Subscription fees are billed monthly, quarterly or annually and are recognized monthly over the term of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking platform agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. The structure and terms of our digital lending and relationship pricing arrangements vary but generally are also sold on a subscription basis through our direct sales organization, and the related revenues are recognized over the terms of the customer agreements. The structure and terms of our Helix arrangements with FinTechs vary but typically involve relatively lower contracted minimum revenues and instead emphasize usage-based revenue, with such revenue recognized as it is incurred. We begin recognizing subscription fees when the control of the service transfers to the customer, generally when the solution is implemented and made available to the customer. We recognize revenue for debit card and bill-pay related transaction services when End Users utilize debit card services integrated within our Helix and other payment-service solutions 65 Table of Contents in the month incurred based on actual or estimated transactions. The timing of our implementations varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We typically recognize any related implementation services revenues ratably over the initial customer agreement term beginning on the date we commence recognizing subscription fees. Contract asset balances arise primarily when we provide services in advance of billing for those services. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable, and in revenues or deferred revenues, depending on when control of the service transfers to the customer. We believe that elevated interest rates have increased the importance for financial institutions to attract and retain depository relationships, which we believe has increased demand for our digital banking solutions. We have observed improved subscription bookings and associated revenue primarily from our digital banking solutions, which we believe is a result of banking conditions placing an importance on attracting and retaining deposits. As of December 31, 2024, our subscription revenue growth was 16% year over year, and we expect subscription revenue will continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue. We continue to observe declines in customer demand for certain discretionary aspects of our solutions, namely professional services, which we believe may be related to customer spending patterns and budget cycles, and this may continue until the general economic outlook improves. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for employees providing services to our customers. This includes the costs of our personnel performing implementation, customer support, third-party data centers and customer training activities. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, the amortization of deferred solution and services costs, amortization of certain software development costs, co-location facility costs and depreciation of our data center assets, debit card related pass-through fees, third-party public cloud service providers, an allocation of general overhead costs, the amortization of acquired technology intangibles and referral fees. We allocate general overhead expenses to all departments based on the number of employees in each department, which we consider to be a fair and representative means of allocation. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for an implementation once revenue recognition commences, and we amortize those implementation costs to cost of revenues over the expected period of customer benefit, which has been determined to be the estimated life of the technology. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We capitalize certain software development costs for those employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to developing our software solutions on an individual product basis, including those related to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams, as well as third-party development costs. Software development costs are amortized to cost of revenues when products and enhancements are released or made available over the products' estimated economic lives. We intend to continue to increase our investments in our implementation and customer support teams and technology infrastructure to serve our customers and support our growth as we continue the migration of a significant portion of the computing, storage and processing of our digital banking platform solutions from our third-party data centers to third-party public cloud service providers. Over the long term, we expect cost of revenues to continue to grow in absolute dollars as we grow our business but to fluctuate as a percentage of revenues based principally on cost efficiencies realized in the business, the level and timing of implementation support activities, timing of capitalized software development costs, debit card related pass-through fees, and other related costs. Operating Expenses Operating expenses primarily consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. They also include costs related to our acquisitions and the resulting amortization of acquired intangible assets from those acquisitions. In an effort to reduce certain of our personnel related expenditures and improve the scaling of expenses relative to revenue growth, we have taken measures intended to increase the cost efficiency of our global workforce structure. Over the long term, we intend to continue to hire new employees and make other investments to support our anticipated growth. As a result, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of revenues over the long term as we grow our business. 66 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including commissions, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenses related to advertising, lead generation, promotional events, corporate communications, travel and allocated overhead. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues will change in any given period based on factors including the addition of newly hired sales professionals, the timing of significant marketing events such as our annual in-person client conference, which we typically hold during the second quarter of each year, and the amount of sales commissions expense amortized. Commissions are generally capitalized and then amortized over the expected period of customer benefit. Research and Development We believe that continuing to improve and enhance our solutions is essential to maintaining our reputation for innovation and growing our customer base and revenues. Research and development expenses include salaries and personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, software development costs, allocated overhead and other related expenses incurred in developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions. Certain research and development costs that are related to our software development, which include salaries and other personnel-related costs, comprised of employee benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses attributed to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions, are capitalized and included in intangible assets, net on the consolidated balance sheets. We intend to continue our investments in our software development teams and the associated technology in order to serve our customers and support our growth. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, compliance and security, legal, human resources employees and certain members of our executive team. General and administrative expenses also include consulting and professional fees, travel and other corporate expenses. We expect to continue to incur incremental expenses associated with the growth of our business and compliance requirements associated with operating as a regulated, public company. Transaction-Related Costs Transaction-related costs include compensation expenses related to milestone provisions and retention agreements with certain former shareholders and employees of acquired businesses, which are recognized as earned, and various legal and professional service expenses incurred in connection with merger and acquisition and divestiture related matters, which are recognized when incurred. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Amortization of acquired intangibles represents the amortization of intangibles recorded in connection with our business acquisitions which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Lease and Other Restructuring Charges Lease and other restructuring charges include costs related to the early vacating of certain facilities, any related impairment of the right of use assets and ongoing expenses of other vacated facilities, partially offset by anticipated sublease income from the associated facilities. It also includes severance cash payouts and other related compensation associated with restructuring, departure of executive officers or eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and expense, other non-operating income and expense, loss on disposal of long-lived assets, foreign currency translation adjustment and gain on extinguishment of debt. We earn interest income on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest from the amortization of debt issuance costs, coupon interest attributable to our convertible notes, commitment fees and interest associated with our Revolving Credit Agreement, as well as fees and interest associated with the letter of credit issued to our landlord for the security deposit for our corporate headquarters. 67 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes As a result of our current net operating loss utilization, our income tax expenses and benefits consist primarily of federal, state, and international current and deferred income tax expense from global operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. In accordance with GAAP, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results might differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we believe that the accounting policies discussed below involve the greatest degree of complexity and exercise of significant judgments and estimates by our management. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations and, accordingly, we believe the policies described below are the most critical for understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services over the term of the agreement, generally when our solutions are implemented and made available to our customers. The promised consideration may include fixed amounts, variable amounts or both. Revenues are recognized net of sales credits and allowances. Revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in either our third-party data centers or with third-party public cloud service providers, transactional revenue from bill-pay solutions and remote deposit products, revenues for professional services and implementation services related to our solutions and certain third-party related pass-through fees. Subscription Revenues Our software solutions are available for use as hosted application arrangements under subscription fee agreements without licensing rights to the software. Subscription fees from these applications, including contractual periodic price increases, are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the customer agreement term beginning on the date our solution is made available to the customer. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and deferred revenues or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Periodic price increases are estimated at contract inception where appropriate and result in contract assets as revenue recognition may exceed the amount billed early in the contract. Additional fees for monthly usage above the levels included in the standard subscription fee are recognized as revenue in the month when the usage amounts are determined and reported. A small portion of our customers host and manage our solutions on-premises or in third-party data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. Term licenses sold with maintenance entitle the customer to technical support, upgrades and updates to the software on a when-and-if-available basis. For these customers, we recognize software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license, which generally occurs at the start of each license term, and recognize the remaining arrangement consideration for maintenance revenue over time on a ratable basis over the term of the software license. Revenues from term licenses and maintenance agreements were not significant in the periods presented. Transactional Revenues We generate a majority of our transactional revenues based on the number of bill-pay transactions that End Users initiate on our digital banking platform. We also generate a portion of our transactional revenues from third-party fees related to End Users utilizing remote deposit products and from fees generated when End Users utilize debit cards integrated with our Helix products. We recognize revenue for transaction services in the month incurred based on actual or estimated transactions. 68 Table of Contents Services and Other Revenues Implementation services are required for new digital solutions and other standalone contracts, and there is a significant level of integration and configuration for each customer. Our revenue for implementation services is billed upfront and generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the customer's term for our hosted application agreements. Implementation services for on-premises agreements are recognized at commencement date. Under certain circumstances, we have determined that these implementation services qualify as a separate performance obligation in certain markets and geographies, and the implementation services for these agreements are recognized over time as services are performed. Professional services revenues consist primarily of Integrated Services. Integrated Services revenue is generated from select established customer relationships where we have engaged with the customer for more tailored, premium professional services, resulting in a deeper and ongoing level of engagement with them. Professional services revenues also consist of custom services, core conversion services and other general professional services. These revenues are generally billed and recognized when delivered. Other Revenues also include certain third-party related pass-through fees primarily in our Helix business that are not transactional in nature. Certain out-of-pocket expenses billed to customers are recorded as revenues rather than an offset to the related expense. Significant Judgments Performance Obligations and Standalone Selling Price A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a good or service to the customer and is the unit of accounting. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. We have contracts with customers that often include multiple performance obligations, usually including multiple subscription and implementation services. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations that are separately identifiable by allocating the contract's total transaction price to each performance obligation in an amount based on the relative standalone selling price, or SSP, of each distinct good or service in the contract. In determining whether implementation services are distinct from subscription services, we considered various factors including the significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the implementation and subscription service, as well as the inability of the customer's personnel or other service providers to perform significant portions of the services. We have concluded that the implementation services included in contracts with multiple performance obligations across the majority of our markets and product offerings are not distinct and, as a result, we defer any arrangement fees for implementation services and recognize such amounts over time on a ratable basis as one performance obligation with the underlying subscription revenue for the initial agreement term of the hosted application agreements. We have concluded that for some of our products in certain markets the implementation services included in contracts with multiple performance obligations are distinct and, as a result, we recognize implementation fees on such arrangements over time as services are performed. The majority of our revenue recognized at a particular point in time is for usage revenue, on-premise software licenses and certain professional services. These services are recognized as the customer obtains control of the asset, as services are performed, or the point the customer obtains control of the software. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation.A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. We determine SSP based on overall pricing objectives and strategies, taking into consideration entity-specific factors, including the value of our contracts, historical standalone sales, customer demographics and the numbers and types of users within our contracts. Variable Consideration We recognize usage revenue related to End Users accessing our products in excess of contracted amounts and from fees that End Users generate using our solutions. Judgment is required to determine the accounting for these types of revenue. We consider various factors including the degree to which usage is interdependent or interrelated to past services and contractual price per user and their relationship to market terms. We have concluded that our usage revenue relates specifically to the transfer of the service to the customer and is consistent with the allocation objective of Topic 606 when considering all of the performance obligations and payment terms in the contract. Therefore, we recognize usage revenue on a monthly or quarterly basis in accordance with the agreement, as determined and reported. This allocation reflects the amount we expect to receive for the services for the given period. We sometimes provide credits or incentives to our customers. Known and estimable credits and incentives represent a form of variable consideration, which are estimated at contract inception and generally result in reductions to revenues 69 Table of Contents recognized for a particular contract. These estimates are updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration as of December 31, 2024. Other Considerations We evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis) with respect to the vendor reseller agreements pursuant to which we resell certain third-party solutions along with our solutions. Generally, we report revenues from these types of contracts on a gross basis, meaning the amounts billed to customers are recorded as revenues, and expenses incurred are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we first obtain control of the inputs to the specific good or service and direct their use to create the combined output. Our control is evidenced by our involvement in the integration of the good or service on our platform before it is transferred to our customers and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing. Revenues provided from agreements in which we are an agent are insignificant. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation consists of restricted stock units, or RSUs, performance-based restricted stock units, and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP, and is used to compensate employees, directors and consultants. All awards are measured at fair value on grant date and forfeitures are recognized as they occur. We value RSUs at the closing market price on the date of grant. RSUs typically vest in equal installments over a four-year period and compensation expense is recognized straight-line over the requisite service period. We value purchase rights under the ESPP using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs including the risk-free interest rate, expected term and expected volatility and we assume no dividend yield. Our ESPP has two six-month offering periods which commence on each June 1 and December 1. We recognize compensation expense straight-line over the withholding period for the ESPP. We grant performance-based restricted stock units which provide for shares of common stock to be earned based on our total stockholder return, or TSR, performance relative to the TSR performance of specified stock indexes, or TSR PSUs, and previously referred to as Market Stock Units, or MSUs. We value TSR PSUs and MSUs on grant date using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The determination of fair value is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions including the expected volatility and the risk-free interest rate. Our expected volatility at the date of grant is based on the historical volatilities of our stock and peer firms' stocks and the Index over the performance period. We assume no dividend yield and recognize compensation expense ratably over the performance period of the award, as applicable. The number of TSR PSUs and MSUs that vest is based on actual TSR relative to the TSR benchmark as set forth in the award agreement. The minimum percentage that can vest is 0%, with a maximum percentage of 200%. TSR PSUs and MSUs will vest over two-year and three-year performance periods. We recognize compensation expense using the graded attribution method on a straight-line basis over the performance period for each award, as applicable. We also grant performance-based restricted stock units which provide for shares of common stock to be earned based on our attainment of Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of non-GAAP Revenue relative to a target specified in the applicable agreement, or EBITDA PSUs. We value EBITDA PSUs at the closing market price on the date of grant. The minimum percentage of EBITDA PSUs that can vest is 0%, with a maximum percentage of 200%. The vesting of EBITDA PSUs is conditioned upon the achievement of certain internal targets and will vest over a two-year and three-year performance period. We recognize compensation expense using the accelerated attribution method over the performance period, if it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. Adjustments to compensation expense are made each reporting period based on changes in our estimate of the number of EBITDA PSUs that are probable of vesting. Purchase Price Allocation, Intangible Assets and Goodwill The purchase price allocation for business combinations and asset acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values. We determine whether substantially all the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If this threshold is met, the single asset or group of assets, as applicable, is not a business. If it is not met, we determine whether the single asset or group of assets, as applicable, meets the definition of a business. In connection with our business combinations, we recorded certain intangible assets, including acquired technology, customer relationships, trademarks and non-compete agreements. Amounts allocated to the acquired intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. We periodically review the estimated useful lives and fair 70 Table of Contents values of our identifiable intangible assets, taking into consideration any events or circumstances which might result in a diminished fair value or revised useful life. The excess purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment annually in October, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. Because we operate as a single reporting unit, the impairment test is performed at the consolidated entity level by comparing our estimated fair value to our carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting unit using a "step one" analysis using a fair-value-based approach based on market capitalization to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Determining the fair value of goodwill is subjective in nature and often involves the use of estimates and assumptions including, without limitation, use of estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analyses are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur impairment charges in a future period. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Impairment of long-lived assets such as property and equipment, acquired intangible assets, capitalized software development costs and right of use assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its fair value. 71 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Revenues(1) $ 696,464 $ 624,624 $ 565,673 Cost of revenues(2) 341,983 321,973 309,328 Gross profit 354,481 302,651 256,345 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 105,951 109,522 108,214 Research and development 143,244 137,334 130,103 General and administrative 122,942 110,186 90,163 Transaction-related costs 24 1,176 Amortization of acquired intangibles 16,979 20,667 18,248 Lease and other restructuring charges 7,628 10,975 13,202 Total operating expenses 396,744 388,708 361,106 Loss from operations (42,263) (86,057) (104,761) Total other income (expense), net(3) 11,403 24,235 (1,314) Loss before income taxes (30,860) (61,822) (106,075) Provision for income taxes (7,676) (3,562) (2,908) Net loss $ (38,536) $ (65,384) $ (108,983) ______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting of zero, $0.3 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. (2) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $22.0 million, $23.4 million and $22.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. (3) Includes a gain of $19.9 million related to the early extinguishment of a portion of our convertible notes for the year ended December 31, 2023. 72 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our results of operations data as a percentage of revenues for each of the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Revenues(1) 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues(2) 49.1 % 51.5 % 54.7 % Gross margin 50.9 % 48.5 % 45.3 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 15.2 % 17.5 % 19.1 % Research and development 20.6 % 22.0 % 23.0 % General and administrative 17.7 % 17.6 % 15.9 % Transaction-related costs % % 0.2 % Amortization of acquired intangibles 2.4 % 3.3 % 3.2 % Lease and other restructuring charges 1.1 % 1.8 % 2.3 % Total operating expenses 57.0 % 62.2 % 63.8 % Loss from operations (6.1) % (13.8) % (18.5) % Total other income (expense), net(3) 1.6 % 3.9 % (0.2) % Loss before income taxes (4.4) % (9.9) % (18.8) % Provision for income taxes (1.1) % (0.6) % (0.5) % Net loss (5.5) % (10.5) % (19.3) %_______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes deferred revenue reduction from purchase accounting of 0.0%, 0.1% and 0.1% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. (2) Includes amortization of acquired technology of 3.2%, 3.7% and 4.0% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. (3) Includes a gain of 3.2% related to the early extinguishment of a portion of our convertible notes for the year ended December 31, 2023. Due to rounding, totals may not equal the sum of the line items in the tables above. 73 Table of Contents Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 A discussion regarding year-to-year comparisons between the year ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 is presented below. A discussion regarding year-to-year comparisons between the year ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Revenues The following table presents our revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Revenues $ 696,464 $ 624,624 $ 71,840 11.5 % Revenues increased by $71.8 million, or 11.5%, from $624.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $696.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a $77.7 million increase in subscription revenue from the sale of additional solutions to new and existing customers and growth in usage from new and existing customers and a $3.1 million increase in transactional revenue from usage of our solutions, partially offset by a decrease of $8.9 million in services and other revenue from declines in professional and discretionary services and Helix related pass-through revenue. Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Cost of revenues $ 341,983 $ 321,973 $ 20,010 6.2 % Percentage of revenues 49.1 % 51.5 % Cost of revenues increased by $20.0 million, or 6.2%, from $322.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $342.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This increase was primarily attributable to a $9.2 million increase in personnel costs, including an increase in the number of personnel who provide implementation and customer support services and maintain our third-party data centers and other technical infrastructure, an $8.8 million net increase in co-location facility, hardware and software costs, third-party public cloud service provider costs and depreciation of our data center assets resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support growing customer activity, a $6.1 million increase from the amortization of capitalized software development and capitalized implementation services, a $3.5 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs and a $2.0 million increase in overhead costs and other discretionary expenses, partially offset by a $4.8 million decrease as a result of higher capitalized implementation costs, a $3.4 million decrease in services, primarily in pass-through fees and a $1.4 million decrease in amortization of acquired customer technology resulting from assets that became fully amortized. We continue to invest in personnel, business process improvement, third-party partners for intellectual property and transactional processing in our solutions and systems infrastructure to standardize our business processes and drive future efficiency in our implementations, customer support and the migration of a significant portion of the computing, storage and processing of our digital banking platform solutions from our third-party data centers to third-party public cloud service providers. As we continue to make these investments, we expect they will increase cost of revenues in absolute dollars, and we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of revenue as our operations continue to scale and revenues grow. 74 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following tables present our operating expenses for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Sales and marketing $ 105,951 $ 109,522 $ (3,571) (3.3) % Percentage of revenues 15.2 % 17.5 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $3.6 million, or 3.3%, from $109.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $106.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction in personnel costs due to measures taken to drive operational effectiveness in our go-to-market strategy. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars over the long-term as we continue to support our revenue growth and increase marketing spend to attract new customers, retain and grow existing customers, build brand awareness, and as we continue to hold various experiences for our current and prospective customers, including our annual client conference typically held during the second quarter. While sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue may fluctuate on a near-term basis, we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the long-term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Research and development $ 143,244 $ 137,334 $ 5,910 4.3 % Percentage of revenues 20.6 % 22.0 % Research and development expenses increased by $5.9 million, or 4.3%, from $137.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $143.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. This increase was primarily attributable to a $2.4 million increase from lower capitalization of software development costs, a $2.3 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions and a $1.0 million increase in travel-related and other discretionary expenses. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to support and expand our platform and enhance our existing solutions, as we believe existing customers will have an increased focus on maintaining and improving their digital offerings. While we anticipate research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue may fluctuate on a near-term basis, we expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the long-term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) General and administrative $ 122,942 $ 110,186 $ 12,756 11.6 % Percentage of revenues 17.7 % 17.6 % General and administrative expenses increased by $12.8 million, or 11.6%, from $110.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $122.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $16.1 million increase in personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, to support the growth of our business and a $1.6 million increase in travel-related, overhead and other discretionary expenses, partially offset by a $4.0 million decrease in professional services, including third-party legal fees and a $1.0 million decrease in charitable contributions from the prior year. 75 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation and other personnel-related costs of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, compliance and security, legal, human resources employees and certain members of our executive team. General and administrative expenses also include costs to comply with regulations governing public companies and financial institutions, third-party legal fees, investor relations activities and costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX. Over the long term, we anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to incur both increased external audit fees as well as additional spending to ensure continued regulatory and SOX compliance. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over the longer term as our revenues grow and we realize cost efficiencies in the business. Transaction-Related Costs Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Transaction-related costs $ $ 24 $ (24) (100.0) % Percentage of revenues % % Transaction-related costs decreased by $24.0 thousand, or 100.0%, from $24.0 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2023 to zero for the year ended December 31, 2024. Transaction-related costs are related to various legal and professional expenses incurred in connection with merger and acquisition and divestiture activities. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 16,979 $ 20,667 $ (3,688) (17.8) % Percentage of revenues 2.4 % 3.3 % Amortization of acquired intangibles decreased by $3.7 million, or 17.8%, from $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $17.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The acquired intangible assets are related to previously disclosed business combinations, and the decrease in amortization is related to intangible assets that became fully amortized. Lease and Other Restructuring Charges Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Lease and other restructuring charges $ 7,628 $ 10,975 $ (3,347) (30.5) % Percentage of revenues 1.1 % 1.8 % Lease and other restructuring charges decreased by$3.3 million, or 30.5%, from $11.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease in lease and other restructuring charges was primarily attributable to a net $3.0 million decrease related to updated assessments and ongoing expenses of previously vacated facilities, including the associated impairment of the right of use asset and a $0.2 million decrease related to lower severance and other related compensation charges associated with eliminating certain positions in connection with initiatives intended to align our resources to the portions of our business that we believe will drive the most long-term value. 76 Table of Contents Total Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Total other income (expense), net $ 11,403 $ 24,235 $ (12,832) (52.9) % Percentage of revenues 1.6 % 3.9 % Total other income (expense), net decreased by $12.8 million or 52.9% from $24.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a $19.9 million gain from the partial repurchase of the 2026 Notes and the 2025 Notes during the three months ended March 31, 2023, partially offset by a $5.7 million increase in income from cash, cash equivalents and investments in the current period, a $0.5 million loss realized on investments recognized, a $0.4 million increase from lower losses on foreign currency translation and a $0.4 million increase from lower interest expense in the current period compared to the prior year period. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (%) Provision for income taxes $ (7,676) $ (3,562) $ (4,114) 115.5 % Percentage of revenues (1.1) % (0.6) % Total provision for income taxes increased by $4.1 million from $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The increase in the tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 related to the operations of the business and an increase in uncertain tax positions related to various states. Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our overall operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of investments to grow our business. The timing of our implementation activities and corresponding revenues from new customers are subject to fluctuations based on the timing of our sales, which has historically tended to be lower in the first half of the year. The timing of our implementations also varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. General economic conditions may continue to impact our business and our customers' spending patterns and budget cycles, and these conditions may continue to disrupt any seasonality trends that may otherwise typically be inherent in our historical operating results. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity We have financed our operations primarily through the proceeds from the issuance of common stock from our initial public offering in March 2014, additional registered common stock offerings, convertible note offerings, and cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and investments of $446.6 million. Based upon our current levels of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations along with our other sources of liquidity, including our ability to access capital markets and available borrowings under our $125.0 million Revolving Credit Agreement, are adequate to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. However, if we determine the need for additional short-term liquidity, there is no assurance that such financing, if pursued, would be adequate or available on terms acceptable to us. 77 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 135,751 $ 70,292 $ 36,556 Investing activities (21,080) 113,268 (165,555) Financing activities 13,317 (152,012) 5,882 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (827) 182 (802) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 127,161 $ 31,730 $ (123,919) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by net loss less non-cash items, the amount and timing of customer receipts and vendor payments and by the amount of cash we invest in personnel and infrastructure to support the anticipated growth of our business and customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our net cash provided by operating activities was $135.8 million, which consisted of non-cash adjustments of $189.1 million, partially offset by a net loss of $38.5 million and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $14.8 million. The primary drivers of cash outflows in operating assets and liabilities were a $31.9 million increase in deferred solution costs primarily from annual commission payments and deferred implementation costs from both new customers and existing customer expansions and a $12.0 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to timing of various prepaid expenses, most notably a payroll date occurring at the very end of the quarter, partially offset by a $28.9 million increase in deferred revenue due to the timing of annual billings and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs, amortization of debt issuance costs, deferred income taxes and lease impairments, partially offset by amortization of premiums and discounts on investments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments, acquisitions of businesses, costs incurred for the development of capitalized software and purchases of property and equipment to support our growth. For the year ended December 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $21.1 million, consisting of $95.8 million for the purchase of investments, $22.3 million in capitalized software development costs and $6.7 million for the purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by $103.7 million received from the maturities of investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our recent financing activities have consisted primarily of activity related to our convertible notes as well as net proceeds from exercises of stock options, contributions to our ESPP to purchase our common stock and payments for debt issuance costs related to the Revolving Credit Agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2024, net cash provided by financing activities was $13.3 million, consisting of $14.3 million of cash received from exercises of stock options and contributions to our ESPP for the purchase of our common stock, partially offset by $0.9 million from payments for debt issuance costs related to the Revolving Credit Agreement. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of the 2026 Notes, 2025 Notes, non-cancelable operating leases primarily related to our facilities, minimum purchase commitments for sponsorship obligations, third-party products, co-location fees and other product costs. Our obligations under our convertible senior notes and Revolving Credit Agreement are described in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information regarding our non-cancellable lease and other purchase commitments as of December 31, 2024 can be found in Notes 10 and 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report, regarding the impact of certain recent accounting pronouncements. 78 Table of Contents