Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify these statements by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "can," "continue," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans," "seeks," "should," "will," "strategy," "future," "likely," or "would" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or development and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are in some cases beyond our control. All of our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks described under "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings, including the audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 , which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 12, 2016. Overview We are a leading provider of secure, cloud-based virtual banking solutions. We enable regional and community financial institutions, or RCFIs, to deliver a robust suite of integrated virtual banking services and more effectively engage with their retail and commercial account holders who expect to bank anytime, anywhere and on any device. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of interaction between our RCFI customers and their account holders. As such, we purpose-build our solutions to deliver a compelling, consistent user experience across digital channels and drive the success of our customers by extending their local brands, enabling improved account holder retention and creating incremental sales opportunities. The effective delivery and management of secure and advanced virtual banking solutions in the complex and heavily-regulated financial services industry requires significant resources, personnel and expertise. We provide virtual banking solutions that are designed to be highly configurable, scalable and adaptable to the specific needs of our RCFI customers. Our solutions deliver to account holders a unified virtual banking experience across online, mobile, voice and tablet channels by leveraging a common platform that integrates our solutions with each other and with our customers' other internal and third-party systems. In addition, we design our solutions and our data center infrastructure to comply with stringent security and technical regulations applicable to financial institutions and to safeguard our customers and their account holders through features such as real-time risk and fraud analytics. We deliver our solutions to the substantial majority of our customers using a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model under which our customers pay subscription fees for the use of our solutions. A small portion of our customers host our solutions in their own data centers under term license and maintenance agreements. Our customers have numerous account holders, and those account holders can represent one or more registered users on our solutions. We price our solutions based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers and the number of registered users utilizing our solutions. We earn additional revenues based on the number of bill-pay and certain other transactions that registered users perform on our virtual banking solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. As a result, our revenues grow as our customers buy more 23 Table of Contents solutions from us and increase the number of registered users utilizing our solutions and as those users increase their number of transactions on our solutions. We have achieved significant growth since our inception. During each of the past five years, our average number of registered users per installed customer has grown, and we have been able to sell additional solutions to existing customers. Our revenues per installed customer and per registered user vary period-to-period based on the length and timing of customer implementations, changes in the average number of registered users per customer, sales of additional solutions to existing customers, changes in the number of transactions on our solutions by registered users and variations among existing customers and new customers with respect to the mix of purchased solutions and related pricing. We believe we have a significant opportunity to continue to grow our business, and we intend to invest across our organization to increase our revenues and improve our operating efficiencies. These investments will increase our costs on an absolute dollar basis, but the timing and amount of these investments will vary based on the rate at which we expect to add new customers, the implementation and support needs of our customers, our software development plans, our technology infrastructure requirements and the internal needs of our organization. Many of these investments will occur in advance of our realizing any resultant benefit which may make it difficult to determine if we are effectively allocating our resources. If we are successful in growing our revenues by increasing the number and scope of our customer relationships, we anticipate that greater economies of scale and increased operating leverage will improve our margins over the long term. We also anticipate that increases in the number of registered users for existing customers will improve our margins. However, we do not have any control or influence over whether account holders elect to become registered users of our customers' virtual banking services. We sell our solutions primarily through our professional sales organization. Our target market of RCFIs is well-defined as a result of applicable governmental regulations. As a result, we are able to effectively concentrate our sales and marketing efforts on these readily-identifiable financial institutions. We intend to add sales representatives for both banks and credit unions across the U.S. We also expect to increase our number of sales support and marketing personnel, as well as our investment in marketing initiatives designed to increase awareness of our solutions and generate new customer opportunities. We seek to help our RCFI customers succeed by providing advanced virtual banking solutions that allow our customers to distinguish themselves from competing financial institutions and better engage with their account holders. We believe that we successfully compete in our market due to our deep domain expertise, reputation for innovation and the quality, breadth and integration of our solutions and common platform. We have made significant investments, and intend to increase investments in technology innovation and software development as we enhance our solutions and platform and increase or expand the number of solutions that we offer to RCFIs and their account holders. We believe that delivery of consistent, high-quality customer support is a significant driver of RCFI purchasing and renewal decisions. To develop and maintain a reputation for high-quality service, we seek to build deep relationships with our customers through our customer service organization, which we staff with personnel who are motivated by our common mission of using technology to help RCFIs succeed and who are knowledgeable with respect to the regulated and complex nature of the financial services industry. As we grow our business, we must continue to invest in and grow our services organization to support our customers' needs and maintain our reputation. During 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Centrix Solutions, Inc., or Centrix, a privately owned company that provides financial institutions with products that detect fraud, manage risk and simplify compliance and acquired all of the outstanding ownership interests of Smarty Pig, LLC, doing business as Social Money, or Social Money, a privately owned financial services software company that offers a modern, cloud-based platform that assists financial institutions in its direct digital strategies. Key Operating Measures In addition to the United States generally accepted accounting principals, or GAAP, measures described below in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsComponents of Operating Results," we monitor the following operating measures to evaluate growth trends, plan investments and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts: 24 Table of Contents Installed Customers We define installed customers as the number of customers on the Q2 platform from which we are currently recognizing revenues. The average size of our installed customers, measured in both registered users per installed customer and revenues per installed customer, has increased over time as our existing installed customers continue to add registered users and buy more solutions from us, and as we add larger RCFIs to our installed customer base. The rate at which we add installed customers varies based on our implementation capacity, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We had 369, 361 and 334 installed customers as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Registered Users We define a registered user as an individual related to an account holder of an installed customer on the Q2 platform who has registered to use one or more of our solutions and has current access to use those solutions as of the last day of the reporting period presented. We price our solutions based on the number of registered users, so as the number of registered users of our solutions increases, our revenues grow. Our average number of registered users per installed customer grows as our existing customers add more registered users and as we add larger RCFIs to our installed customer base. We anticipate that the number of registered users will grow at a faster rate than our number of installed customers. The rate at which our customers add registered users and the incremental revenues we recognize from new registered users vary significantly period-to-period based on the timing of our implementations of new customers and the timing of registration of new users. Our installed customers had approximately 6.3 million, 4.3 million and 3.1 million registered users as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Registered users at March 31, 2016 were 6.8 million compared to 5.2 million at March 31, 2015 . Revenue Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain our installed customers and expand their use of our products and services over time is an indicator of the stability of our revenue base and the long-term value of our customer relationships. We assess our performance in this area using a metric we refer to as our revenue retention rate. We calculate our revenue retention rate as the total revenues in a calendar year from customers who were installed customers as of December 31 of the prior year, expressed as a percentage of the total revenues during the prior year from those installed customers. Our revenue retention rate provides insight into the impact on current year revenues of the number of new customers implemented on the Q2 platform during the prior year, the timing of our implementation of those new customers in the prior year, growth in the number of registered users and changes in their usage of our solutions, sales of new products and services to our existing installed customers during the current year and installed customer attrition. The most significant drivers of changes in our revenue retention rate each year have historically been the number of new customers in the prior year and the timing of our implementation of those new customers. The timing of our implementation of new customers in the prior year is significant because we do not start recognizing revenues from new customers until they become installed customers. If implementations are weighted more heavily in the first or second half of the prior year, our revenue retention rate will be lower or higher, respectively. Our use of revenue retention rate has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate revenue retention rate differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Our revenue retention rate was 122%, 122% and 128% for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Churn We utilize churn to monitor the satisfaction of our clients and evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies. We define churn as the amount of any monthly recurring revenue losses due to installed customer cancellations and downgrades, net of upgrades and additions of new solutions, during a year, divided by our monthly recurring revenue at the beginning of the year. Cancellations refer to installed customers that have either stopped using our services completely or remained a customer but terminated a particular service. Downgrades are a result of customers taking less of a particular service or renewing their contract for identical services at a lower price. Our annual churn was 3.5%, 4.8% and 3.5% for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our use of churn has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in our industry may calculate churn differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. 25 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss before depreciation, amortization, loss from discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, certain costs related to our recent acquisitions, provision for income taxes, and total other expense, net. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results for the following reasons: adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a company's operating performance without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon their financing, capital structures and the method by which assets were acquired; our management uses adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP financial measures for planning purposes, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, as a measure of our operating performance, to assess the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance; adjusted EBITDA provides more consistency and comparability with our past financial performance, facilitates period-to-period comparisons of our operations and also facilitates comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results; and our investor and analyst presentations include adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our overall operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net loss or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The use of adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool has limitations such as: depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, and the assets being depreciated or amortized will often have to be replaced in the future and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA may not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs or contractual commitments; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that could reduce cash available for use; and other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA together with our GAAP financial measures including cash flow from operations and net loss. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (9,652 ) $ (4,645 ) Depreciation and amortization 2,927 1,203 Stock-based compensation expense 2,605 1,322 Provision for income taxes 230 32 Interest and other (income) expense, net (14 ) 28 Acquisition related costs 1,482 Adjusted EBITDA $ (2,422 ) $ (2,060 ) 26 Table of Contents Components of Operating Results Revenues All of our revenue-generating activities directly relate to the sale, implementation and support of our solutions within a single operating segment. We derive the substantial majority of our revenues from subscription fees for the use of our solutions hosted in our data centers as well as revenues for implementation and customer support services related to our solutions. A small portion of our customers host our solutions in their own data centers under term license and maintenance agreements, and we recognize the corresponding revenues over the term of those customer agreements. Subscription fees are based on the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the number of registered users and the number of bill-pay and certain other transactions those users conduct using our solutions in excess of the levels included in our standard subscription fee. Subscription fees are billed and recognized monthly over the term of our customer agreements. The initial term of our customer agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. We begin recognizing subscription fees on the date a solution is implemented and made available to the customer. The timing of our implementations vary period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. We recognize any related implementation services revenues ratably over the initial agreement term beginning on the date we commence recognizing subscription fees. Amounts that have been invoiced but not paid are recorded in accounts receivable and in revenues or deferred revenues, depending on whether our revenue recognition criteria have been met. We consider subscription fees to be fixed or determinable unless the fees are subject to refund or adjustment or are not payable within our standard payment terms. In determining whether collection of subscription fees is reasonably assured, we consider financial and other information about customers, such as a customer's current credit-worthiness and payment history over time. Historically, our bad debt expenses have not been significant. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, for employees providing services to our customers. This includes the costs of our implementation, customer support, data center and customer training personnel. Cost of revenues also includes the direct costs of bill-pay and other third-party intellectual property included in our solutions, the amortization of deferred solution and services costs, co-location facility costs and depreciation of our data center assets, an allocation of general overhead costs, the amortization of acquired technology and referral fees. We allocate general overhead expenses to all departments based on the number of employees in each department, which we consider to be a fair and representative means of allocation. We capitalize certain personnel costs directly related to the implementation of our solution to the extent those costs are considered to be recoverable from future revenues. We amortize the costs for a particular implementation once revenue recognition commences, and we amortize those implementation costs over the remaining term of the customer agreement. Other costs not directly recoverable from future revenues are expensed in the period incurred. We capitalized implementation costs in the amount of $1.4 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We capitalize certain software development costs related to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions. The costs related to software development that are incurred between reaching technological feasibility of a solution and the point at which the solution is ready for general release are capitalized and are included in intangible assets, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. As products have not reached general release, we have not commenced amortization on these costs. Amortization of capitalized software development costs will be computed on an individual product basis for those products available for market and will be recognized based on the product's estimated economic life and these costs will be recognized in cost of revenues. We intend to continue to increase our investments in our implementation and customer support teams and technology infrastructure to serve our customers and support our growth. We expect cost of revenues to continue to grow in absolute dollars as we grow our business but to fluctuate as a percentage of revenues based principally on the level and timing of implementation and support activities and other related costs. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. We intend to continue to hire new employees and make other investments to support our anticipated growth. As a result, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of revenues over the long term as we grow our business. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including commissions, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Additional expenses relate to advertising, lead generation, promotional event programs, corporate communications, travel and allocated overhead. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues will change in any given period based on several factors including the addition of newly-hired sales professionals, the number and timing of newly-installed customers and the amount of sales commissions expense amortized related to those customers. Commissions are generally capitalized and then amortized over the life of the customer agreement. Sales and marketing expenses are also impacted by the timing of significant marketing programs such as our annual user conference which we typically hold during the second quarter. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing by increasing our number of sales and marketing personnel and expanding our sales and marketing activities. We believe these investments will help us build brand awareness, add new customers and expand sales to our existing customers as they continue to buy more solutions from us, the number of registered users utilizing our solutions grows and those users increase the number of transactions on our solutions. Research and Development We believe that continuing to improve and enhance our solutions is essential to maintaining our reputation for innovation and growing our customer base and revenues. Research and development expenses include salaries and personnel-related costs, including benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, software development costs, allocated overhead and other related expenses incurred in developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions. Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. Certain research and development costs that are related to our software development, which includes salaries and other personnel-related costs, including employee benefits and bonuses attributed to programmers, software engineers and quality control teams working on our software solutions, are capitalized and are included in intangible assets, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, including benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, of our administrative, finance and accounting, information systems, legal and human resources employees. Additional expenses include consulting and professional fees, insurance and travel. We expect to continue to incur incremental expenses associated with the growth of our business and to meet increased compliance requirements associated with operating as a public company. These expenses include costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations governing public companies, increased costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance, increased professional services expenses and costs associated with enhanced investor relations activities. Acquisition Related Costs Acquisition related costs include compensation expenses related to milestone provisions and retention agreements with certain former shareholders and employees of Centrix and Social Money which are recognized as earned, and various legal and professional service expenses incurred in connection with the acquisitions, which were recognized when incurred. 28 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquired Intangibles These amounts represent the amortization of intangibles recorded in connection with our business acquisitions which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Total Other Expense, Net Total other expense, net, consists primarily of interest income and expense. We earn interest income on our cash, cash equivalents and investments, and expect interest income to increase due to the increase in our cash, cash equivalents and investments as a result of our initial public offering, or IPO, and follow-on offerings. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest incurred on outstanding borrowings under our credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, or our Credit Facility, and fees and interest associated with the letter of credit issued through our Credit Facility to our landlord for the security deposit for our corporate headquarters. Provision for Income Taxes As a result of our current net operating loss position, current income tax expenses consist primarily of state income taxes, and deferred income tax expenses relate to the tax amortization of recently acquired goodwill, resulting in the recognition of a net deferred tax liability. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Data The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Revenues $ 33,759 $ 24,157 Cost of revenues (1)(2) 17,814 13,272 Gross profit 15,945 10,885 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (2) 8,207 6,194 Research and development (2) 7,903 4,151 General and administrative (2) 7,421 5,125 Acquisition related costs 1,482 Amortization of acquired intangibles 368 Total operating expenses 25,381 15,470 Loss from operations (9,436 ) (4,585 ) Total other income (expense), net 14 (28 ) Loss before income taxes (9,422 ) (4,613 ) Provision for income taxes (230 ) (32 ) Net loss $ (9,652 ) $ (4,645 ) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of $0.8 million and zero for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. (2) Includes stock-based compensation expenses as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Cost of revenues 406 178 Sales and marketing 435 292 Research and development 632 162 General and administrative 1,132 690 Total stock-based compensation expenses $ 2,605 $ 1,322 30 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenues for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues (1)(2) 52.8 54.9 Gross profit 47.2 45.1 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (2) 24.3 25.7 Research and development (2) 23.4 17.2 General and administrative (2) 22.0 21.2 Acquisition related costs 4.4 Amortization of acquired intangibles 1.1 Total operating expenses 75.2 64.1 Loss from operations (28.0 ) (19.0 ) Total other income (expense), net 0.1 (0.1 ) Loss before income taxes (27.9 ) (19.1 ) Provision for income taxes (0.7 ) (0.1 ) Net loss (28.6 )% (19.2 )% ______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes amortization of acquired technology of 2.4% and zero for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. (2) Includes stock-based compensation expenses as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Cost of revenues 1.2 % 0.7 % Sales and marketing 1.3 1.2 Research and development 1.9 0.7 General and administrative 3.4 2.9 Total stock-based compensation expenses 7.8 % 5.5 % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Revenues The following table presents our revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ (%) Revenues $ 33,759 $ 24,157 $ 9,602 39.7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 . Revenues increased by $9.6 million , or 39.7% , from $24.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to $33.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to an $8.6 million increase from growth in new registered users from existing customers and the addition of registered users from newly installed customers. The remaining $1.0 million of revenue growth was generated from an increase in the number of transactions processed using our solutions. 31 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ (%) Cost of revenues $ 17,814 $ 13,272 $ 4,542 34.2 % Percentage of revenues 52.8 % 54.9 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 . Cost of revenues increased by $4.5 million , or 34.2% , from $13.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to $17.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This increase was attributable to a $1.2 million increase in personnel costs due to an increase in the number of personnel who provide implementation and customer support and maintain our data centers and other technical infrastructure, which includes a $0.2 million increase in stock based compensation expense allocated to cost of revenue expenses for the increase in the number and value of stock-based awards vesting during the period, a $1.2 million increase in third-party costs related to intellectual property included in our solutions and transaction processing costs incurred as a result of the increase in registered users from existing and new customers, as well as implementation and support personnel expenses that are reimbursable from our customers, an $0.8 million increase in amortization of acquired customer technology, a $0.7 million increase in co-location facility costs and depreciation for our data center assets resulting from the increased infrastructure necessary to support our growing customer base, a $0.5 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our implementation and support departments, and a $0.1 million increase in travel related expenses. We defer certain payroll costs directly related to the implementation of our solutions to the extent those costs are considered to be recoverable from future revenues. However, a substantial portion of our implementation costs are not eligible for deferral and, as a result, are expensed in the period incurred. Costs related to implementations that have been deferred are amortized over the same period in which the related revenue is recognized. Additionally, we invest in personnel, business processes and systems infrastructure to standardize our business processes and drive future efficiency in our implementations, customer support and data center operations. We expect these investments in capacity and process improvement to provide opportunities for future expansion of our gross margin as we begin to achieve economies of scale. Operating Expenses The following tables present our operating expenses for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ (%) Sales and marketing $ 8,207 $ 6,194 $ 2,013 32.5 % Percentage of revenues 24.3 % 25.7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 . Sales and marketing expenses increased by $2.0 million , or 32.5% , from $6.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to $8.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily attributable to a $1.6 million increase in personnel costs due to the growth of our sales and marketing organizations, which includes a $0.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to sales and marketing expenses for the increase in the number and value of stock-based awards vesting during the period, a $0.2 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our sales and marketing departments, a $0.1 million increase in recruiting and travel related expenses, and a $0.1 million increase in marketing-specific expenses. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we add personnel to support our revenue growth and as we increase discretionary marketing spend to attract new customers, retain and grow existing customers and drive brand awareness. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over time as our revenues grow. 32 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ (%) Research and development $ 7,903 $ 4,151 $ 3,752 90.4 % Percentage of revenues 23.4 % 17.2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 . Research and development expenses increased by $3.8 million , or 90.4% , from $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to $7.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily attributable to a $3.1 million increase in personnel costs as a result of the growth in our research and development organization to support continued enhancements to our solutions, which includes a $0.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to research and development expenses for the increase in the number and value of stock-based awards vesting during the period, a $0.4 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our research and development departments, a $0.2 million increase in spending on consulting fees, software maintenance and information system expenses, and a $0.1 million increase in travel related expenses. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to support and expand our platform and enhance our existing solutions. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ (%) General and administrative $ 7,421 $ 5,125 $ 2,296 44.8 % Percentage of revenues 22.0 % 21.2 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 . General and administrative expenses increased by $2.3 million , or 44.8% , from $5.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to $7.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $1.2 million increase in personnel costs to support the growth of our business, which includes a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense allocated to general and administrative expenses for the increase in the number and value of stock-based awards vesting during the period, a $0.7 million increase in professional services due to the increased costs associated with being a public-company, a $0.2 million increase in facilities and other overhead costs which were allocated to our general and administrative departments, a $0.1 million increase in information technology and communications expense associated with our efforts to increase the reporting and monitoring infrastructure of our business, and a $0.1 million increase in travel related expenses. We anticipate that general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as a result of our being a public company. General and administrative expenses include costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations governing public companies, increased costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance, and increased professional services expenses and costs associated with enhanced investor relations activities. We expect such expenses to decline as a percentage of our revenues over time as our revenues grow. Acquisition Related Costs Three months ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ (%) Acquisition related costs $ 1,482 $ $ 1,482 100.0 % Percentage of revenues 4.4 % % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 . Acquisition related costs were $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to zero for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . These expenses are related to our purchase of Centrix in the third quarter of 2015 and Social Money in the fourth quarter of 2015 and include $1.3 million of compensation expense related to milestone provisions and retention bonuses for employees of Centrix and Social Money and $0.2 million of legal and other expenses incurred related to the acquisitions. 33 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Three months ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ (%) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 368 $ $ 368 100.0 % Percentage of revenues 1.1 % % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 . Amortization of acquired intangibles was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to zero for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The acquired intangible assets are related to our purchase of Centrix in the third quarter of 2015 and Social Money in the fourth quarter of 2015 and are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Seasonality and Quarterly Results Our overall operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of investments in growing our business. The timing of our implementation activities and corresponding revenues from new customers are subject to fluctuation based on the timing of our sales. Sales may tend to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in subsequent quarters but any resulting impact on our results of operation has been difficult to measure due to the timing of our implementations and overall growth in our business. The timing of our implementations also varies period-to-period based on our implementation capacity, the number of solutions purchased by our customers, the size and unique needs of our customers and the readiness of our customers to implement our solutions. Our solutions are often the most frequent point of interaction between our customers and their account holders. As a result, we and our customers are very deliberate and careful in our implementation activities to help ensure a successful roll-out of the solutions to account holders and increase the registration of new users. Unusually long or short implementations, for even a small number of customers, may result in short-term quarterly variability in our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity We have financed our operations primarily through the proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our IPO and follow-on offerings and cash flows from operations. At March 31, 2016 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and investments of $105.0 million and $22.0 million of available borrowings under our Credit Facility. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 187 $ (2,644 ) Investing activities (10,506 ) (5,086 ) Financing activities (1,471 ) 33,921 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (11,790 ) $ 26,191 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by (used in) operating activities is primarily influenced by the amount and timing of customer receipts and vendor payments and by the amount of cash we invest in personnel and infrastructure to support the anticipated growth of our business and increase in the number of installed customers. 34 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , our net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities were $0.2 million , which consisted of a net loss of $9.7 million , offset by cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.5 million and non-cash adjustments of $7.4 million . Cash inflows were the result of a $4.0 million increase in deferred revenues due to increased payments and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments, a $ 2.1 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to the timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base and related growth in our technical infrastructure, a $0.4 million increase in deferred rent and other long-term liabilities as a result of the tenant improvement allowance for our new building, and a $0.3 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and customer payments. Cash outflows were the result of a $2.3 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period and a $2.1 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to various prepaid corporate insurances and other prepaid expenses. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $2.9 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed assets and acquired intangible assets, $2.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $1.6 million of amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , our net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities were $2.6 million, which consisted of a net loss of $4.6 million, and cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $1.8 million, partially offset by non-cash adjustments of $3.8 million. Cash inflows were the result of a $2.9 million increase in deferred revenues due to increased payments and deposits received from customers prior to the recognition of revenue from those related payments. Cash outflows were the result of a $2.2 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of certain annual billings, a $1.4 million increase in deferred solution and implementation costs due to our increased customer growth and new and existing customers undergoing implementations during the period, a $0.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $0.3 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to the timing of payments in support of our expanding customer base and related growth in our technical infrastructure. Non-cash items consisted primarily of $1.3 million of stock-based compensation expense, $1.2 million of depreciation and amortization expense due to growth in our fixed asset base, and $1.1 million of amortization of deferred implementation and deferred solution and other costs. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments, our recent acquisitions, and purchases of property and equipment to support our growth. Purchases of property and equipment may vary from period to period due to the timing of the expansion of our operations, data center and other technical infrastructure. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash used in investing activities was $10.5 million , consisting primarily of $11.0 million for the purchase of investments, $3.6 million for the purchase of property and equipment, $0.6 million from the capitalization of software development costs, and $0.1 million used for the working capital payment to Social Money, partially offset by $4.8 million from maturities of investments. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash used in investing activities was $5.1 million, consisting primarily of $6.5 million for the purchase of investments and $0.4 million for the purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by $1.8 million from maturities of investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our financing activities have consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our follow-on offerings and from exercises of options to purchase common stock. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash used in financing activities was $1.5 million , consisting of $2.1 million of payments on financing obligations and $0.1 million of payments on capital lease obligations, partially offset by $0.7 million received from the exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash provided by financing activities was $33.9 million, consisting primarily of proceeds from the completion of our follow-on offering, which was completed on March 4, 2015. We received $32.8 million in net proceeds from our follow-on offering after deducting the payment of underwriters' discounts and commissions and offering costs. In addition, during the period, we received $1.3 million from the exercise of stock options, which was partially offset by $0.1 million of payments on capital lease obligations. 35 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , and subsequent to March 31, 2016 , except as noted below, there were no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments disclosures as set forth under the caption, Contractual Obligations and Commitments in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 12, 2016. On February 8, 2016, we entered into an office lease agreement to lease approximately 21,000 rentable square feet in south Austin, Texas. The lease commences upon the earlier of the date at which the Company conducts business in the premises, or May 1, 2016. The term of the lease runs 84 months, with a five year renewal option, and the rent obligations under the lease begin with rents of $43,000 per month, which escalate over the course of the lease to $52,000 per month in the final months of the lease term. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments at March 31, 2016 (in thousands): Payment due by period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total Interest payments - line of credit $ $ 13 $ $ $ 13 Operating lease obligations 4,802 11,034 11,141 27,964 54,941 Capital lease obligations 74 74 Purchase commitments 10,590 14,538 9,763 34,891 Acquisition hold back 2,500 2,500 $ 15,466 $ 28,085 $ 20,904 $ 27,964 $ 92,419 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K, such as the use of unconsolidated subsidiaries, structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," or ASU 2014-09, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled to when products are transferred to customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date," or ASU 2015-14, that deferred the effective date by one year to December 15, 2017 for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after that date. The FASB permitted early adoption of the standard, but not before the original effective date of December 15, 2016. ASU 2015-14 will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is permitted beginning in 2017. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or prospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. We are currently evaluating how the adoption of this standard will impact our condensed consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Interest - Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30)," or ASU 2015-03, which seeks to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs. ASU 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs be classified as a contra-liability against any outstanding borrowings related to such debt issuance costs, rather than as a separate asset. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-15, "Interest - Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30)," or ASU 2015-15, to update ASU 2015-03 and apply accounting guidance to line-of-credit arrangements. We have adopted this standard as of March 31, 2016, and its adoption did not have any impact to the condensed consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40)," or ASU 2015-05, related to accounting for fees paid in a cloud computing arrangement. The new standard provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement 36 Table of Contents consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. We have adopted this standard as of March 31, 2016, and its adoption did not have any impact to the condensed consolidated financial statements. In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, "Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments," or ASU 2015-16. The amendments in this update require that an acquirer recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. The effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization or other income effects, if any, as a result of the change to the provisional amounts will be recorded in the same period's financial statements, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. We have adopted this standard as of March 31, 2016, and its adoption did not have any impact to the condensed consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)," or ASU 2016-02, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The standard is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, and early application is permitted. We are currently evaluating how the adoption of this standard will impact our condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting," or ASU 2016-09, which amends Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 718, "Compensation Stock Compensation." ASU 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating how the adoption of this standard will impact our condensed consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent liabilities in our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company's critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates: Revenue recognition; Deferred revenues; Deferred implementation costs; Deferred solution and other costs; Accounts receivable, net; Stock-based compensation; Purchase price allocation, intangible assets and goodwill; Capitalization of software development costs; and Income taxes. We have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Of those policies, we believe that the accounting policies enumerated above involve the greatest degree of complexity and exercise of judgment by our management. There were no other significant changes in our critical accounting policies or estimates which were included in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 , which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 12, 2016. 37 Table of Contents We evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions on an ongoing basis, and while we believe that our estimates, judgments and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act, contains provisions that, among other things, reduce certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. As defined in the JOBS Act, a public company whose initial public offering of common equity securities occurred after December 8, 2011 and whose annual gross revenues are less than $1.0 billion will, in general, qualify as an "emerging growth company" until the earliest of: the last day of its fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of its initial public offering of common equity securities; the last day of its fiscal year in which it has annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; the date on which it has, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; and the date on which it is deemed to be a "large accelerated filer," which will occur at such time as the company (a) has an aggregate worldwide market value of common equity securities held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more as of the last business day of its most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (b) has been required to file annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act for a period of at least 12 months and (c) has filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Exchange Act. Under this definition, we are an "emerging growth company" and could remain one until as late as December 31, 2019. As an "emerging growth company" we have chosen to rely on such exemptions and are therefore not required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditor's attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation-related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the Chief Executive Officer's compensation to median employee compensation. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have chosen to "opt out" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.