Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report. 1 Table of Contents Financial and Operational Highlights The table below provides a summary of some of our financial highlights. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating results: Operating revenue $ 11,730 $ 12,311 $ 13,475 Operating expenses 9,729 10,336 11,378 Income before income taxes 450 903 1,051 Net (loss) income (55 ) 662 652 (Loss) earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.03 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.38 Diluted $ (0.03 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.37 Cash flow data: Cash provided by operating activities $ 3,367 $ 3,307 $ 2,931 Expenditures for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software 1,488 1,409 1,777 Dividends paid 555 551 556 December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance sheet data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 372 $ 2,406 Total borrowingsnet (1) 11,947 14,200 Working capital deficit (2) (1,649 ) (483 ) Total stockholders deficit (1,655 ) (1,178 ) (1) Total borrowingsnet is the sum of current portion of long-term borrowings and long-term borrowingsnet on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations in Item 7 of this report. (2) Working capital deficit is the amount by which our current liabilities exceed our current assets. The table below presents some of our operational metrics. December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) Operational metrics (1) : Total broadband subscribers 2,914 2,812 2,652 Total video subscribers 1,003 940 814 Total wireless subscribers 1,086 838 658 Total access lines 8,855 9,925 11,127 (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation in Item 7 in this report. 2 Table of Contents Operations We operate our business through the following three segments: business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets. We group our products and services among three major categories, including: strategic services, which include primarily private line, broadband, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, video (including DIRECTV), Verizon Wireless services and voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP; legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, access, traditional wide area network, or WAN, and integrated services digital network, or ISDN, services; and data integration, which is telecommunications equipment we sell that is located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers. We also sold Qwest-branded wireless services until October 31, 2009, and included those services as a fourth major category for 2009 and prior years. You can find more detailed information about our segments and major product and service categories below under the heading Products, Services and Customers. We have reclassified certain prior year amounts in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 to conform to the current year presentation. Our revenue by segment, including a breakdown of our revenue by major product and service category, is as follows: Years Ended December 31, % of Operating Revenue 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Operating revenue by category: Business markets: Strategic services $ 1,709 $ 1,584 $ 1,401 14 % 13 % 11 % Legacy services 1,724 1,887 2,058 15 % 15 % 15 % Total strategic and legacy services 3,433 3,471 3,459 29 % 28 % 26 % Data integration 604 557 570 5 % 5 % 4 % Total business markets revenue 4,037 4,028 4,029 34 % 33 % 30 % Mass markets: Strategic services $ 1,495 $ 1,398 $ 1,333 13 % 11 % 10 % Legacy services 3,164 3,510 3,953 27 % 29 % 29 % Total strategic and legacy services 4,659 4,908 5,286 40 % 40 % 39 % Qwest-branded wireless services (1) 112 460 % 1 % 4 % Total mass markets revenue 4,659 5,020 5,746 40 % 41 % 43 % Wholesale markets: Strategic services $ 1,285 $ 1,235 $ 1,251 11 % 10 % 9 % Legacy services 1,369 1,678 2,092 12 % 14 % 16 % Total wholesale markets revenue 2,654 2,913 3,343 23 % 24 % 25 % Total segment revenue 11,350 11,961 13,118 97 % 97 % 97 % Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 380 350 357 3 % 3 % 3 % Total operating revenue $ 11,730 $ 12,311 $ 13,475 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) As noted above, we stopped selling Qwest-branded wireless services on October 31, 2009. The decrease in Qwest-branded wireless services revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. We categorize net revenue from Verizon Wireless services as strategic services revenue. 3 Table of Contents Substantially all of our revenue comes from customers located in the United States, and substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. For additional financial information about our segments including total segment income for each of our segments, see Note 16Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. We do not allocate our assets among our segments and therefore do not report total assets by segment. Products, Services and Customers Our products and services include a variety of data, Internet and voice services. Through our strategic partnerships with DIRECTV and Verizon Wireless, we also offer satellite digital television and wireless services to customers in our local service area. As noted above, we operate our business through three segments: business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets. We group our products and services among three major categories: strategic services, legacy services and data integration. Revenue from our strategic services represented 38% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, and these services are a growing source of revenue. We also sold Qwest-branded wireless services until October 31, 2009 and included those services as a fourth major category for 2009 and prior years. We offer our business markets and mass markets customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. For example, we offer our mass markets customers integrated and unlimited local and long-distance services. These customers can also bundle two or more services such as broadband, video (including DIRECTV), voice and Verizon Wireless services . We believe these customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic broadband cables and other equipment. The majority of our network is located in our local service area. Within our local service area, our network serves approximately 8.9 million access lines in 14 states and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. Business Markets Our business markets customers include enterprise and government customers. Enterprise customers consist of local, national and global businesses. Described below are the key products and services that we sell to our business markets customers. We sell these products and services through direct sales, partnership relationships and arrangements with third-party sales agents. Strategic Services Our business markets customers use our strategic services to access the Internet and Internet-based services, as well as to connect to private networks and to conduct internal and external data transmissions such as transferring files from one location to another. We also provide value-added services and integrated solutions that make communications more secure, reliable and efficient for our business markets customers. These services include primarily private line, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, broadband and VoIP services. Our marketing and sales efforts with respect to business markets customers increasingly focus on these growth services. Private line . Our business markets customers use private line as a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites. Qwest iQ Networking . Qwest iQ Networking is a Multi-Protocol Label Switching, or MPLS,-based service. MPLS is standards-approved data networking technology, compatible with existing asynchronous 4 Table of Contents transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay networks that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video, as well as service level agreements that guarantee bandwidth. This technology allows network operators a great deal of flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks. Hosting . Hosting includes providing space, power, bandwidth and managed services in data centers. We also offer a variety of server and application management, back-up, disaster recovery, and professional web design services. We currently operate 17 hosting centers, or CyberCenters SM , in 11 metropolitan areas. Broadband . We offer our business markets customers broadband services that allow them to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at higher speeds than dial-up access. Substantially all of our broadband customers are located within our local service area. VoIP . Our business markets customers use VoIP, a real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates in the Internet protocol over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN. Legacy Services Our business markets legacy services include local, long-distance, traditional WAN services (including ATM, frame relay, dedicated Internet access, or DIA, and virtual private network, or VPN) and ISDN services. We originate, transport and terminate local services within our local service area. Local services consist primarily of basic local exchange and switching services. Long-distance services include domestic and international long-distance services and toll free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that either terminate or originate with our customers in the United States. Data Integration We also provide data integration to our business markets customers. Data integration involves the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and other business customers. Mass Markets Our mass markets customers include consumers and small businesses. Described below are the key products and services that we sell to our mass markets customers. We sell these products and services using a variety of channels, including our sales and call centers, our website, telemarketing and retail stores and kiosks. Strategic Services Our mass markets customers generally use our strategic services to access the Internet, Internet-based services and video services. These strategic services include primarily broadband, video (including DIRECTV) and Verizon Wireless services. Our marketing and sales efforts with respect to our mass markets customers increasingly focus on these growth services. Broadband . Our broadband services allow customers to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at higher speeds than dial-up access. Substantially all of our broadband customers are located within our local service area. 5 Table of Contents Video . Our video services include primarily satellite digital television. These services are offered under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name. Our current arrangement with DIRECTV has an initial five-year term ending in 2014 and automatically renews for one-year terms thereafter unless terminated by one of the parties. Although DIRECTV will have the right to terminate the arrangement upon the closing of the CenturyLink merger, we expect to be able to continue to provide DIRECTV services after the merger. Verizon Wireless services . Our wireless services are offered under an arrangement with Verizon Wireless that allows us to market, sell, and bill for its services under its brand name, primarily to customers who buy these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other products and services. This arrangement allows us to sell the full complement of Verizon Wireless services. We began selling Verizon Wireless services in the third quarter of 2008. Our current arrangement with Verizon Wireless has a five-year term ending in 2013 and is terminable by either party thereafter. Although Verizon Wireless will have the right to terminate the arrangement upon the closing of the CenturyLink merger, we expect to be able to continue to provide Verizon Wireless services after the merger. Legacy Services We offer our mass markets customers legacy services, consisting primarily of local and long-distance services. We originate, transport and terminate local services within our local service area. Local services consist of primarily basic local exchange and switching services. We also provide enhanced features with our local exchange services, such as caller ID, call waiting, call return, 3-way calling, call forwarding and voice mail. Wholesale Markets Our wholesale markets customers are other telecommunications carriers and resellers that purchase our products and services in large quantities to sell to their customers or that purchase our access services that allow them to connect their customers and their networks to our network. Described below are the key products and services that we sell to our wholesale markets customers. We sell these products and services through direct sales, partnership relationships and arrangements with third-party sales agents. Strategic Services Nearly all of the strategic services revenue we generate from wholesale markets customers is from private line services. Our wholesale customers use our private line services to connect their customers and their networks to our network. We also provide private line services to wireless service providers that use our fiber to the cell site services, commonly referred to as wireless backhaul, to support their next generation wireless networks. Legacy Services Our wholesale markets legacy services include local, long-distance, access and traditional WAN services. Local services include primarily unbundled network elements, or UNEs, which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers. Our local services also include network transport, billing services and access to our network by other telecommunications providers and wireless carriers. These services allow other telecommunications companies to provide telecommunications services that originate or terminate on our network. Long-distance services include domestic and international long-distance services. Access services include fees that we charge to other telecommunications providers to connect their customers and their networks to our network so that they can provide long-distance, transport, data, wireless and Internet services. 6 Table of Contents Other We also generate other operating revenue from USF surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. We centrally manage this revenue, and consequently it is not assigned to any of our three segments described above. The majority of our real estate properties are located in our local service area. Importance, Duration and Effect of Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights Either directly or through our subsidiaries, we own or have licenses to various patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and other intellectual property necessary to conduct our business. We believe it is unlikely that we could lose any intellectual property rights that are material to our business. Competition We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect intense competition to continue. Regulatory developments and technological advances have increased opportunities for alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. In addition, the telecommunications industry has experienced some consolidation and several of our competitors have consolidated with other telecommunications providers. The resulting consolidated companies are generally larger, have more financial and business resources and have greater geographical reach than we currently do. Business Markets As discussed below, competition for many of our business markets services is based in part on bundled offerings. We believe business markets customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. As such, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. Strategic Services In providing strategic services to our business markets customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. We also compete with smaller telecommunications providers, regional providers and wireless providers, as well as large integrators that provide customers with data services thereby taking traffic off of our network. Competition for business markets strategic services is driven by price and bundled offerings. Private line and Qwest iQ Networking services also compete on network reach and reliability, while hosting, broadband and VoIP services also compete on bandwidth and quality. Legacy Services Although our status as an incumbent local exchange carrier, or ILEC, continues to provide us some advantages in providing local services in our local service area, we continue to face significant competition in this market. In providing local services, we compete primarily with competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, and competition is based primarily on price and bundled offerings. We also face competition from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and from broadband service providers, including cable companies, as a result of product substitution. In providing long-distance services to our business markets customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. These competitors often 7 Table of Contents have significant name recognition in the national long-distance markets and also have substantial financial and technological resources that allow them to compete more effectively against us. We also increasingly compete with wireless providers and broadband service providers, including cable companies and VoIP providers. Competition in the long-distance market is based primarily on price and product bundled offerings. Some of our competitors are subject to fewer regulations than we are, which affords them competitive advantages against us. Under federal regulations, telecommunication providers are able to interconnect their networks with ours, resell our services or lease separate parts of our network in order to provide competitive services. Generally, we have been required to provide these functions and services at wholesale rates, which allows our competitors to sell their services at lower prices. However, these rules have been and continue to be reviewed by state and federal regulators. For additional discussion of regulations affecting our business, see Regulation below. In addition, wireless and broadband service providers generally are subject to less or no regulation, which may allow them to operate with lower costs than we are able to operate. In providing other legacy services, such as traditional WAN services and ISDN, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers and cable companies. Competition for these other legacy services is based primarily on price and bundled offerings. Data Integration In providing data integration to our business markets customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings, and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. We provide some of our data integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing strategic and legacy services, as discussed above. Mass Markets As discussed below, competition for many of our mass markets services is based in part on bundled offerings. We believe mass markets customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. As such, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. Strategic Services In providing broadband services to our mass markets customers, we compete primarily with cable companies, wireless providers and other broadband service providers. Competition is based on price, bandwidth, service, promotions and bundled offerings. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable and other satellite companies as well as other sales agents and resellers. Competition is based on price, content, quality, promotions and bundled offerings. Many of our competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are, and therefore they are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations. The market for wireless services is highly competitive. In reselling Verizon Wireless services, we compete with national and regional carriers as well as other sales agents and resellers. We market and sell wireless services to customers who are buying these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other services. Competition is based on coverage area, price, services, features, handsets, technical quality and customer service. Legacy Services Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us some advantages in providing local services in our local service area, we increasingly face significant competition in this market. An increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable and wireless for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has 8 Table of Contents led to an increase in the number and type of competitors within our industry and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater competition in providing local and long-distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and from broadband service providers, including cable companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies. Competition for mass markets customers is based primarily on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. In addition, we and our competitors continue to develop and deploy more innovative product bundling, enhanced features and combined billing options in an effort to retain and gain customers. While we rely on reseller or sales agency arrangements to provide some of our bundled services, some of our competitors are able to provide all of their bundled services directly, which may provide them a competitive advantage. We believe our mass markets customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. Similar to the competitive market for business markets customers, many of our competitors for mass markets customers are subject to fewer regulations than we are and are therefore afforded competitive advantages against us, as discussed above. Wholesale Markets Strategic Services In providing private line services to our wholesale markets customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. Additionally we are experiencing increased competition for private line services from cable companies. A small number of our wholesale markets customers are important contributors to this segments revenue. Competition for private line services is based primarily on price, as well as network reach, bandwidth, quality, reliability and customer service. Although we are experiencing intense competition in this market, we believe we are favorably positioned due to our strong presence in our local service area. Legacy Services The market for wholesale legacy services is highly competitive. In providing long-distance services to our wholesale customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications and VoIP providers. Competition in the wholesale long-distance market is based primarily on price; however customer service, quality and reliability can also be influencing factors. Our resale and UNE customers are experiencing the same competition with CLECs for local services customers as we are, as discussed in mass markets and business markets above. We also compete with some of our own wholesale markets customers that are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By doing so, these competitors take traffic off of our network. We provide access services to other telecommunications providers to connect their customers and their networks to our network so that they can provide long-distance, transport, data, wireless and Internet services. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies, resellers and wireless service providers. Our access service customers face competitive pressures in their businesses that are similar to those we face with respect to strategic and legacy services. To the extent that these competitive pressures result in decreased demand for their services, demand for our access services also declines. Regulation We are subject to significant regulation by the FCC, which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. These agencies issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition; they set the rates that telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging 9 Table of Contents traffic; and they have established funds (called universal service funds) to support provision of services to high-cost areas. In most states, local voice service, switched and special access services, and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. In addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with utility commissions in most states. Laws and regulations in many states restrict the manner in which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities, and many mergers and acquisitions require approval by the FCC and some state commissions. In this section, we describe potentially significant regulatory changes that we face, including: state commission review of the rates we charge for local telephone service and FCC proposals to reform universal service funds, change the rates carriers charge each other for exchanging traffic, and change the rates we can charge for special access services. Interconnection In our local service area, we are required by law to interconnect with other telecommunications providers and to allow competing local exchange carriers to resell our services and use our facilities as unbundled network elements. State commissions periodically conduct proceedings to change the rates we are allowed to charge for these services, and those proceedings can result in changes to our revenue from wholesale markets customers. Intercarrier Compensation and Access Pricing The FCC has initiated a number of proceedings that could affect the rates and charges for services that we sell to or purchase from other carriers and for traffic that we exchange with other carriers. The FCC has been considering comprehensive reform of these charges, known as intercarrier compensation, in a proceeding that could result in fundamental changes in the charges we collect from and pay to other carriers. This proceeding may not be completed for some time. State commissions also periodically open proceedings to change the rates that we or other local carriers charge to terminate and originate intrastate calls. The FCC, state commissions and federal courts are also reviewing intercarrier compensation issues relating to IP services, including whether we should pay intercarrier compensation to carriers for traffic bound for Internet service providers that cross local exchange boundaries (known as VNXX traffic) and whether VoIP providers must pay carrier access charges. In 2010, we received approximately $350 million in switched access revenue (which includes a significant amount of related services not subject to these proceedings), and we paid a greater amount to other carriers for switched access. The majority of switched access revenue is included in wholesale markets legacy revenue. The FCC also has an open proceeding to examine whether rates should be reduced for high-capacity facilities that local exchange carriers, like Qwest, sell to other companies. Some parties have proposed changes to the FCCs rules that would significantly reduce our revenues from these facilities. This proceeding remains pending before the FCC. In 2010, we received approximately $1.4 billion for interstate special access services (excluding digital subscriber line), but not all of that revenue is at issue in the FCCs special access proceeding. Of the approximately $1.4 billion interstate special access services revenue, approximately $1.1 billion is included in wholesale markets strategic revenue while approximately $300 million is located in business markets strategic revenue. Most proposals submitted in the proceeding would impact only lower-capacity services and not higher-capacity fiber-based services, and many proposals would impact services only in geographic areas where the FCC has granted us pricing flexibility. If the FCC does mandate lower prices, we will benefit from lower prices for the special access services we purchase from other carriers, which totaled $550 million in 2010. The majority of this amount is included in business markets facilities expenses. Regulatory proceedings are pending in numerous jurisdictions regarding rural local exchange carriers that have inflated the demand for their terminating services by entering into arrangements with companies providing free calling services. We have disputed and withheld payment on the charges billed by many of these rural carriers. The FCC released an order in 2009 ruling in our favor that a rural providers interstate switched access 10 Table of Contents tariffs did not apply to this traffic. In another case brought by us against several rural carriers, the Iowa Utilities Board issued an order in our favor in 2009 ruling that the rural carriers intrastate switched access tariffs did not apply to this traffic. Other proceedings addressing these matters are pending before the FCC, the Minnesota state commission and federal courts. The developments in 2010 in those cases were consistent with the favorable 2009 orders. Universal Service The FCC maintains a number of universal service programs that are intended to ensure affordable telephone service for all Americans, including low-income consumers and those living in rural areas that are costly to serve, and ensure access to advanced telecommunications services for schools, libraries and rural health care providers. These programs, which totaled over $7 billion annually in recent years, are funded through contributions by interstate telecommunications carriers, which are generally passed through to their end-users. The FCC is actively considering a new contribution methodology, which, if adopted, could significantly increase our universal service contributions. While we would have the right to pass these charges on to our customers, the additional charges could affect the demand for certain telecommunications services. In 2010, we received approximately $67 million in federal universal service high-cost subsidies. The majority of this amount is included in mass markets legacy revenue. The FCC is actively considering changes in the structure and distribution methodology of its universal service programs. The FCC is also considering whether to reconfigure its universal service funds to support broadband services. The resolution of these proceedings ultimately could affect the amount of universal service support we receive. In 2010, we received approximately $82 million in state universal service high-cost subsidies. Almost all of this amount is included in mass markets legacy revenue. State commissions and legislatures may review and alter their respective state universal service programs, and, as a result, our distributions may be affected. Network Neutrality In December 2010, the FCC issued network neutrality rules applicable to providers of broadband Internet access services. In general, network neutrality refers to government policies designed to safeguard and promote an open Internet. As written, the FCCs rules do not materially impact our business operations, but the FCC indicated that it would decide in later cases the extent to which broadband providers like Qwest can charge content providers for enhancing or prioritizing their traffic when it is being delivered to Qwests broadband customers. Employees December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 Management employees 14,164 14,581 15,792 (417 ) (1,211 ) (3 )% (8 )% Occupational employees 14,179 15,557 17,145 (1,378 ) (1,588 ) (9 )% (9 )% Total employees 28,343 30,138 32,937 (1,795 ) (2,799 ) (6 )% (8 )% Our occupational employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the Communications Workers of America, or CWA, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, or IBEW. Our current four-year agreements with the CWA and IBEW expire on October 6, 2012. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in Risk FactorsOther Risks Relating to Qwest in Item 1A of this report. 11 Table of Contents Website Access and Important Investor Information Our website address is www.qwest.com , and we routinely post important investor information in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.qwest.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the Investor Relations section of our website under the heading SEC Filings. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We have adopted written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder and the New York Stock Exchange rules. In the event that we make any changes to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our code of conduct applicable to our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K within four business days of such event. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of our guidelines on significant governance issues and the charters of our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee and nominating and governance committee, are available in the Corporate Governance section of our website at investor.qwest.com/corporate-governance or in print to any stockholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at Qwest Communications International Inc., 1801 California Street, Denver, Colorado 80202. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements about our financial condition, operating results and business. These statements include, among others: statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our business activities and certain transactions we have completed, such as increased revenue, decreased expenses and avoided expenses and capital or other expenditures; and statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other matters that are not historical facts. These statements may be made expressly in this document or may be incorporated by reference to other documents we have filed or will file with the SEC. You can find many of these statements by looking for words such as may, would, could, should, plan, believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, or similar expressions used in this document or in documents incorporated by reference in this document. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by us in those statements. Some of these risks are described in Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. These risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to review or confirm analysts expectations or estimates or to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Pending Merger with CenturyLink Our merger with CenturyLink is subject to closing conditions, including government approvals, which could result in additional conditions that adversely affect us or which could cause the merger to be delayed or abandoned. The completion of the CenturyLink merger is subject to certain closing conditions, including the absence of injunctions or other legal restrictions and the absence of a material adverse effect on either company. In addition, the merger remains subject to a number of regulatory approvals. We have received most of the necessary approvals from state public service or public utility commissions, but we still need approvals from the FCC and several other state public service or public utility commissions. These regulatory entities could impose requirements or obligations as conditions for their approvals. Despite our best efforts, we may not be able to satisfy the various closing conditions and obtain the necessary approvals. In addition, any required conditions to these approvals could adversely affect the combined company or could result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. Failure to complete the CenturyLink merger could negatively impact us. If the CenturyLink merger is not completed, we would still remain liable for significant transaction costs and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of a completed merger. Depending on the reasons for not completing the merger, we could also be required to pay CenturyLink a termination fee of $350 million. For these and other reasons, a failed merger could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected to the extent that the current price reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed. While the CenturyLink merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect our business. Our employees, customers and suppliers may have uncertainties about the effects of the merger. Although we have taken actions designed to reduce any adverse effects of these uncertainties, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to try to change our existing business relationships. The pursuit of the merger and preparations for integration have placed and will continue to place a significant burden on many employees and internal resources. If, despite our efforts, key employees depart because of these uncertainties and burdens, or because they do not wish to remain with a combined company, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. While the merger is pending, some of our customers could delay or forgo purchasing decisions and suppliers could seek additional rights or benefits from us. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from taking certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs without CenturyLinks consent, and these restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if the merger is delayed. For these and other reasons, the pendency of the merger could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. If completed, our merger with CenturyLink may not achieve the intended results. The merger will involve the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies. The combined company will need to devote management attention and resources to integrate our and CenturyLinks businesses. In addition, the combined company may face difficulties with the integration process. For example: the combined company may not realize the anticipated cost savings and operating synergies at expected levels or in the expected timeframe; 13 Table of Contents existing customers and suppliers may decide not to do business with the combined company; the costs of integrating our policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems with those of CenturyLink could be higher than expected; the integration process could consume significant time and attention on the part of the combined companys management, thereby diverting attention from day-to-day operations; or the combined company may not be able to integrate employees from the two companies while maintaining existing levels of sales, customer service and operational support. For these and other reasons, the merger may not achieve the intended results. Risks Affecting Our Business Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We are facing greater competition from cable companies, wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other factors, we continue to lose access lines. We are continually evaluating our responses to these competitive pressures. Some of our more recent responses are expanded broadband capabilities and strategic partnerships. We also remain focused on customer service and providing customers with simple and integrated solutions, including, among other things, product bundles and packages. However, we may not be successful in these efforts. We may not be able to distinguish our offerings and service levels from those of our competitors, and we may not be successful in integrating our product offerings, especially products for which we act as a reseller or sales agent such as wireless and video services. Our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected if these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient and if we otherwise are unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly without corresponding cost reductions. If this occurred, our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns would also be adversely affected. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, could negatively affect our business. While it is often difficult for us to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may encounter financial hardships or may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. In addition, as discussed below under the heading Risks Affecting our Liquidity, due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. 14 Table of Contents Consolidation among other participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry has experienced some consolidation, and several of our competitors have consolidated with other telecommunications providers. This consolidation results in competitors that are larger and better financed and affords our competitors increased resources and greater geographical reach, thereby enabling those competitors to compete more effectively against us. We have experienced and expect further increased pressures as a result of this consolidation and in turn have been and may continue to be forced to respond with lower profit margin product offerings and pricing plans in an effort to retain and attract customers. These pressures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, and our ability to execute our business plans and compete depends upon our ability to develop and deploy new products and services. The development and deployment of new products and services could also require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any inability to keep up with changes in technology and markets could also adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers, including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services, our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, and defending against these claims could adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to conduct business. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, on the trading price of our debt and equity securities and on our ability to access the capital markets. As described in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report, the KPNQwest matters present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters have sought billions of euros (equating to billions of dollars) in damages. In addition, the outcome of one or more of these matters could have a negative impact on the outcomes of the other matters. We continue to defend against these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. We can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional securities or selling assets. Further, there are other material proceedings pending against us as described in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report that, depending on their outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Thus, we can give no assurances as to the impacts on our operating results or financial condition as a result of these matters. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation. We are subject to significant regulation by the FCC, which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer regulated services, and we are subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we are always in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their own initiative. See additional information about regulations affecting our business in BusinessRegulation in Item 1 of this report. Regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from state to state. The state legislatures and state utility commissions in our local service area have adopted reduced or modified forms of regulation for retail services. These changes also generally allow more flexibility for rate changes and for new product introduction, and they enhance our ability to respond to competition. Despite these regulatory changes, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which could expose us to unanticipated price declines. For instance, in 2011 the state utility commission in Arizona may consider a price cap plan that will govern the rates that we charge in that state. The FCC is also considering changing the rates that carriers can charge each other for originating, carrying and terminating traffic and for local access facilities. Also under review by the FCC and state commissions are the intercarrier compensation issues arising from the delivery of traffic destined for entities that offer conference and chat line services for free (known in the industry as access stimulation, or traffic pumping), and of traffic bound for Internet service providers that cross local exchange boundaries (known as VNXX traffic). The FCC and state commissions are also considering changes to funds they have established to subsidize service to high-cost areas. Changes to how those funds are distributed could 16 Table of Contents result in us receiving less in universal service funding, and changes to how the funds are collected could make some of our services less competitive. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental regulations. We monitor our compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we believe that we are in compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Affecting Our Liquidity Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. We continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated debt was approximately $11.9 billion. Approximately $3.5 billion of our debt obligations comes due over the next three years. While we currently believe we will have the financial resources to meet our obligations when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate the future condition of our company, the credit markets or the economy generally. We may have unexpected costs and liabilities, and we may have limited access to financing. In addition, it is the current expectation of our Board of Directors that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend. Cash used by us to pay dividends will not be available for other purposes, including the repayment of debt. We may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets), if revenue and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive pressures increase, if we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits significantly earlier than is anticipated, or if we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report, but we would need to do so in a manner consistent with the terms of our merger agreement with CenturyLink. We can give no assurance that this additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Also, we may be impacted by factors relating to or affecting our liquidity and capital resources due to perception in the market, impacts on our credit ratings or provisions in our financing agreements that may restrict our flexibility under certain conditions. Our $1.035 billion revolving credit facility (referred to as our Credit Facility), which is currently undrawn, has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our other debt issues have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit ratings. In addition, the Credit Facility contains various limitations, including a restriction on using any proceeds from the facility to pay settlements or judgments relating to the legal matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesNear-Term View in Item 7 of this report for additional information about the Credit Facility. Our high debt levels could adversely impact our credit ratings. Additionally, the degree to which we are leveraged may have other important limiting consequences, including the following: placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared with our less leveraged competitors; making us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions or in any of our businesses; 17 Table of Contents limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. We may be unable to significantly reduce the substantial capital requirements or operating expenses necessary to continue to operate our business, which may in turn affect our operating results. The industry in which we operate is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the coming years. Although we have reduced our operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further significantly reduce these costs, even if revenue in some areas of our business is decreasing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our maintenance and our core growth requirements going forward, this may not be the case if circumstances underlying our expectations change. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our qualified pension plan could negatively impact our liquidity. The funded status of our qualified pension plan is the difference between the value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $585 million at December 31, 2010. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligation or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. These adverse changes could require us to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan or could accelerate the timing of required cash payments. Based on current funding laws and regulations, we will not be required to make a cash contribution in 2011. During 2012 we expect to begin making required contributions to the plan and we estimate that these 2012 contributions could be between $300 million and $350 million. Although potentially significant in the aggregate, we currently expect that contributions in 2013 and beyond will decrease annually from the 2012 expected contribution amount. However, the actual amount of required contributions in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions in 2011 and beyond could have a negative impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. Our debt agreements allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. The terms of our debt instruments permit us to incur additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be necessary for many reasons, including to adequately respond to competition, to comply with regulatory requirements related to our service obligations or for financial reasons alone. Incremental borrowings or borrowings at maturity on terms that impose additional financial risks to our various efforts to improve our operating results and financial condition could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. If we pursue and are involved in any strategic transactions, our financial condition could be adversely affected. On a regular and ongoing basis, we review and evaluate opportunities for acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions that could be beneficial. As a result, we may be involved in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our financial condition (including short-term or long-term liquidity) or short-term or long-term operating results. 18 Table of Contents Should we make an error in judgment when identifying strategic transaction partners or fail to successfully execute any strategic transaction, we will likely fail to realize the benefits we intended to derive from the strategic transaction and may suffer other adverse consequences. Strategic transactions may involve a number of other risks, including: incurrence of substantial transaction costs; diversion of managements attention from operating our existing business; failure to successfully integrate any acquired operations; charges to earnings in the event of any write-down or write-off of goodwill recorded in connection with strategic transactions; depletion of our cash resources or incurrence of additional indebtedness to fund strategic transactions; an adverse impact on our tax position; assumption of liabilities of any acquired business (including unforeseen liabilities); and imposition of additional regulatory obligations by federal or state regulators. We can give no assurance that we would be able to successfully complete any strategic transactions. Other Risks Relating to Qwest If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are described in Item 7 of this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered critical because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Taxing authorities may determine we owe additional taxes relating to various matters, which could adversely affect our financial results. As a significant taxpayer, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. Tax sharing agreements have been executed between us and previous affiliates, and we believe the liabilities, if any, arising from adjustments to previously filed returns would be borne by the affiliated group member determined to have a deficiency under the terms and conditions of such agreements and applicable tax law. We have not generally provided for liabilities attributable to former affiliated companies or for claims they have asserted or may assert against us. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results or our net operating loss carryforwards. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions, which represent a significant number of our employees. Our current four-year agreements with the Communications Workers of America, or CWA, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, or IBEW, expire on October 6, 2012. Although we believe that our relations with our employees and unions are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. The impact of future negotiations, including changes in wages and benefit levels, could have a material impact on our financial results. Also, if we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if significant disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The trading price of our securities has been and could continue to be volatile. The capital markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. The overall market and the trading price of our securities may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our securities may be significantly affected by various factors, including: our pending merger with CenturyLink; quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; changes in investors and analysts perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; broader market fluctuations; general economic or political conditions; acquisitions and financings including the issuance of substantial number of shares of our common stock as consideration in acquisitions; the high concentration of shares owned by a few investors; sale of a substantial number of shares held by the existing shareholders in the public market, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options; and general conditions in the telecommunications industry, including regulatory developments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal properties do not lend themselves to simple description by character and location. The components of our gross investment in property, plant and equipment consisted of the following as of December 31, 2010 and 2009: December 31, 2010 2009 Components of gross investment in property, plant and equipment: Land and buildings 7 % 7 % Communications equipment 43 % 43 % Other network equipment 46 % 46 % General-purpose computers and other 4 % 4 % Total 100 % 100 % 20 Table of Contents Our property, plant and equipment is used in our business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets segments. We evaluate depreciation, amortization and impairment charges on a total company basis because we do not allocate assets to our segments. As a result, these charges are not generally assigned to any segment. Land and buildings consists of land, land improvements, central office and certain administrative office buildings. Communications equipment consists primarily of switches, routers and transmission electronics. Other network equipment includes primarily conduit and cable. General-purpose computers and other consists principally of computers, office equipment, vehicles and other general support equipment. We own substantially all of our telecommunications equipment required for our business. However, we lease certain facilities and equipment under various capital lease arrangements when the leasing arrangements are more favorable to us than purchasing the assets. Due to favorable economics, we have increasingly turned to financing our assets through capital leases. Total gross investment in property, plant and equipment was approximately $47.3 billion and $46.6 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, before deducting accumulated depreciation. We own and lease administrative offices in major metropolitan locations both in the United States and internationally. Substantially all of our communications equipment and other network equipment is located in buildings that we own or on land within our local service area. Outside of our local service area, our assets are generally located on real property pursuant to an agreement with the property owner or another person with rights to the property. It is possible that we may lose our rights under one or more of these agreements, due to their termination or their expiration. Several putative class actions have been filed against us disputing our use of certain rights-of-way as described in Legal ProceedingsOther Matters in Item 3 of this report. If we lose any of these rights-of-way or are unable to renew them, we may find it necessary to move or replace the affected portions of our network. However, we do not expect any material adverse impacts as a result of the loss of any of these rights. For additional information, see Note 6Property, Plant and Equipment to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In this section, when we refer to a class action as putative it is because a class has been alleged, but not certified in that matter. Until and unless a class has been certified by the court, it has not been established that the named plaintiffs represent the class of plaintiffs they purport to represent. To the extent appropriate, we have accrued liabilities for the matters described below. The terms and conditions of applicable bylaws, certificates or articles of incorporation, agreements or applicable law may obligate us to indemnify our former directors, officers or employees with respect to certain of the matters described below, and we have been advancing legal fees and costs to certain former directors, officers or employees in connection with certain matters described below. KPNQwest Litigation/Investigation On September 29, 2010, the trustees in the Dutch bankruptcy proceeding for KPNQwest, N.V. (of which we were a major shareholder) filed a lawsuit in district court in Haarlem, the Netherlands, alleging tort and mismanagement claims under Dutch law. We and Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN) are defendants in this lawsuit along with a number of former KPNQwest supervisory board members and a former officer of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with us. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that defendants actions were a cause of the bankruptcy of KPNQwest, and they seek damages for the bankruptcy deficit of KPNQwest, which is claimed to be approximately 4.2 billion (or approximately $5.6 billion based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2010), plus statutory interest. 21 Table of Contents On September 13, 2006, Cargill Financial Markets, Plc and Citibank, N.A. filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, against us, KPN, KPN Telecom B.V., and other former officers, employees or supervisory board members of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with us. The lawsuit alleges that defendants misrepresented KPNQwests financial and business condition in connection with the origination of a credit facility and wrongfully allowed KPNQwest to borrow funds under that facility. Plaintiffs allege damages of approximately 219 million (or approximately $290 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2010). On August 23, 2005, the Dutch Shareholders Association (Vereniging van Effectenbezitters, or VEB) filed a petition for inquiry with the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeals, the Netherlands, with regard to KPNQwest. VEB sought an inquiry into the policies and course of business at KPNQwest that are alleged to have caused the bankruptcy of KPNQwest in May 2002, and an investigation into alleged mismanagement of KPNQwest by its executive management, supervisory board members, joint venture entities (us and KPN), and KPNQwests outside auditors and accountants. On December 28, 2006, the Enterprise Chamber ordered an inquiry into the management and conduct of affairs of KPNQwest for the period January 1 through May 23, 2002. On December 5, 2008, the Enterprise Chamber appointed investigators to conduct the inquiry. VEB claims that certain individuals have assigned to it their claims for losses totaling approximately 40 million (or approximately $55 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2010), which those individuals allegedly incurred on investments in KPNQwest securities. VEB has not yet filed any adjudicative action to assert those claims. On June 7, 2010, a number of parties, including us and KPN, reached a settlement with VEB for 19 million (or approximately $25 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2010), conditioned in part on the termination of the investigation by the Enterprise Chamber. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement, VEB formally requested that the Enterprise Chamber terminate the investigation. The Enterprise Chamber denied that request and directed the investigation to proceed. On an appeal of that decision, the Dutch Supreme Court reversed the Enterprise Chambers decision and, among other things, referred the case back to the Enterprise Chamber to terminate the investigation. We will continue to defend against the pending KPNQwest litigation matters vigorously. Stockholder Litigation In the weeks following the April 22, 2010 announcement of our pending merger with CenturyLink, purported Qwest stockholders filed 17 lawsuits against us, our directors, certain of our officers, CenturyLink and SB44 Acquisition Company. The purported stockholder plaintiffs commenced these actions in three jurisdictions: the District Court for the City and County of Denver, the United States District Court for the District of Colorado, and the Delaware Court of Chancery. The plaintiffs generally allege that our directors breached their fiduciary duties in approving the merger and seek to enjoin the merger and, in some cases, damages if the merger is completed. Many of the lawsuits also challenge the sufficiency of the disclosures in the preliminary joint proxy statement-prospectus relating to the merger, which was filed with the SEC on June 4, 2010. We, and our directors, believe that all of these actions are without merit. The defendants nevertheless negotiated with the purported stockholder plaintiffs regarding a settlement of the claims asserted in all of these actions, including the claims that challenge the sufficiency of the disclosures in the preliminary joint proxy statement-prospectus. On July 16, 2010, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding reflecting the terms of their agreement-in-principle for a settlement of all of the claims asserted in these actions. Pursuant to this agreement, defendants included additional disclosures in the final joint proxy statement-prospectus filed with the SEC on July 19, 2010. On December 17, 2010, the United States District Court for the District of Colorado preliminarily approved the settlement, and notice was subsequently provided to stockholders of the proposed final resolution. A final fairness hearing is scheduled for February 25, 2011. If the settlement is approved at the final hearing, all of these actions will be dismissed, with prejudice. The defendants intend to defend their positions in these matters vigorously to the extent they are not fully resolved by the settlement. 22 Table of Contents Other Matters Several putative class actions relating to the installation of fiber-optic cable in certain rights-of-way were filed against us on behalf of landowners on various dates and in various courts in Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Utah. For the most part, the complaints challenge our right to install our fiber-optic cable in railroad rights-of-way. The complaints allege that the railroads own the right-of-way as an easement that did not include the right to permit us to install our fiber-optic cable in the right-of-way without the plaintiffs consent. Most of the actions purport to be brought on behalf of state-wide classes in the named plaintiffs respective states, although two of the currently pending actions purport to be brought on behalf of multi-state classes. Specifically, the Illinois state court action purports to be on behalf of landowners in Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin, and the Indiana state court action purports to be on behalf of a national class of landowners. In general, the complaints seek damages on theories of trespass and unjust enrichment, as well as punitive damages. On July 18, 2008, a federal district court in Massachusetts entered an order preliminarily approving a settlement of all of the actions described above, except the action pending in Tennessee. On September 10, 2009, the court denied final approval of the settlement on grounds that it lacked subject matter jurisdiction. On December 9, 2009, the court issued a revised ruling that, among other things, denied a motion for approval as moot and dismissed the matter for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Qwest Communications Company, LLC, or QCC, is a defendant in litigation filed by several billing agents for the owners of payphones seeking compensation for coinless calls made from payphones. The matter is pending in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Generally, the payphone owners claim that QCC underpaid the amount of compensation due to them under FCC regulations for coinless calls placed from their phones onto QCCs network. The claim seeks compensation for calls, as well as interest and attorneys fees. QCC will vigorously defend against this action. A putative class action filed on behalf of certain of our retirees was brought against us, the Qwest Group Life Insurance Plan and other related entities in federal district court in Colorado in connection with our decision to reduce the life insurance benefit for these retirees to a $10,000 benefit. The action was filed on March 30, 2007. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that we and other defendants were obligated to continue their life insurance benefit at the levels in place before we decided to reduce them. Plaintiffs seek restoration of the life insurance benefit to previous levels and certain equitable relief. The district court ruled in our favor on the central issue of whether we properly reserved our right to reduce the life insurance benefit under applicable law and plan documents. The plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaint to assert additional claims. In 2009, the court dismissed or granted summary judgment to us on all of the plaintiffs claims. The plaintiffs have appealed the courts decision to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. We continue to evaluate the method we use to assess the amount of USF payments that must be made on certain products, and during the year ended December 31, 2010 we recorded an adjustment to our liability of $15 million related to previous years USF payments. This ongoing evaluation may result in further adjustments to previous years USF payments and charges to customers. ITEM 4. RESERVED 23 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market for Qwest Common Stock Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol Q. On February 8, 2011, we had approximately 232,000 stockholders of record, although there are significantly more beneficial holders of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated. Market Price High Low 2010 Fourth quarter $ 7.73 $ 6.24 Third quarter 6.37 5.16 Second quarter 5.53 4.87 First quarter 5.38 4.11 2009 Fourth quarter $ 4.43 $ 3.42 Third quarter 4.17 3.30 Second quarter 4.87 3.36 First quarter 4.04 2.86 Our Board of Directors declared the following cash dividends payable in 2010 and 2009: Date Declared Record Date Dividend Per Share Total Amount Payment Date (in millions) October 20, 2010 December 3, 2010 $ 0.08 $ 139 December 17, 2010 August 18, 2010 September 10, 2010 $ 0.08 $ 139 September 24, 2010 April 14, 2010 May 21, 2010 $ 0.08 $ 139 June 11, 2010 December 16, 2009 February 19, 2010 $ 0.08 $ 138 March 12, 2010 October 14, 2009 November 20, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 138 December 11, 2009 July 27, 2009 August 21, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 138 September 11, 2009 April 15, 2009 May 22, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 138 June 12, 2009 December 10, 2008 February 13, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 136 March 6, 2009 On January 24, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend for the first quarter of 2011 of $0.08 per share totaling approximately $141 million. The dividend is payable on February 25, 2011 to stockholders of record as of February 18, 2011. It is the current expectation of our Board of Directors that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend. Some of our debt instruments contain restrictions on the amount of dividends we can pay. See Note 8Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information about our restrictions. The most restrictive covenant is under our Credit Facility, which is currently undrawn. The Credit Facility currently allows us to pay cash dividends and repurchase shares up to $1.7 billion, plus any cumulative net income and net proceeds from the issuance of common stock, less any dividends paid or shares repurchased. In addition, like other companies that are incorporated in Delaware, we are also limited by Delaware law in the amount of dividends we can pay. Our merger agreement with CenturyLink requires that CenturyLink and we coordinate with each other to designate the record dates and payment dates for the two companies respective quarterly dividends. Thus, the timing of our future dividends may deviate from historical dates due to this requirement. 24 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about repurchases of our common stock or shares surrendered to satisfy tax obligations during the fourth quarter of 2010: Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) Period October 2010 4,353 $ 6.34 $ 193,126,784 November 2010 9,201 $ 6.87 $ 193,126,784 December 2010 (3) 16,519,323 $ 7.71 $ 193,126,784 Total 16,532,877 (1) Amounts represent shares of common stock delivered to us as payment of withholding taxes due on the vesting and payout of restricted stock and performance shares issued under our Equity Incentive Plan. (2) In October 2006, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program for up to $2 billion of our common stock. The repurchases were originally scheduled to be completed in 2008; however, our Board of Directors extended the timeframe to complete these repurchases for an undetermined period. As of December 31, 2010, we had repurchased a total of $1.807 billion of common stock under this program. Our merger agreement with CenturyLink prohibits us from repurchasing additional shares under this program without CenturyLinks consent. (3) On December 21, 2010, we accelerated the vesting of certain restricted stock and performance share awards issued under our Equity Incentive Plan in order to preserve certain economic benefits to our stockholders that otherwise would have been lost in connection with our pending merger with CenturyLink. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified by reference to, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this report and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report. The comparability of the following selected financial data is significantly impacted by various changes in accounting principles including: the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No., or FIN, 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 740), which was effective for us on January 1, 2007; and the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, (ASC 715), which was effective for us on December 31, 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions, shares in thousands except per share amounts) Operating revenue $ 11,730 $ 12,311 $ 13,475 $ 13,778 $ 13,923 Operating expenses 9,729 10,336 11,378 12,022 12,368 Income before income taxes 450 903 1,051 620 517 Net (loss) income (1) (55 ) 662 652 2,890 553 (Loss) earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.03 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 1.57 $ 0.29 Diluted $ (0.03 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.37 $ 1.50 $ 0.28 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 1,726,085 1,709,346 1,728,731 1,829,244 1,889,857 Diluted 1,726,085 1,713,498 1,730,206 1,915,167 1,965,751 Dividends declared per common share $ 0.24 $ 0.32 $ 0.32 $ 0.08 $ Other data: Cash provided by operating activities $ 3,367 $ 3,307 $ 2,931 $ 3,026 $ 2,789 Cash used for investing activities 1,488 1,406 1,693 1,601 1,700 Cash used for financing activities 3,913 60 1,575 1,764 694 Expenditures for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software 1,488 1,409 1,777 1,669 1,632 December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Balance sheet data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 372 $ 2,406 $ 565 $ 902 $ 1,241 Total assets 17,220 20,380 20,141 22,471 21,234 Total borrowingsnet (2) 11,947 14,200 13,555 14,098 14,695 Total borrowingsnet to total capital ratio (3) 116 % 109 % 111 % 96 % 109 % (1) See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of unusual items affecting the results for 2010, 2009 and 2008. Results for 2007 and 2006 were affected by the changes in accounting principles described above the table. 26 Table of Contents (2) Total borrowingsnet is the sum of current portion of long-term borrowings and long-term borrowingsnet on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations in Item 7 of this report. (3) The total borrowingsnet to total capital ratio is a measure of the percentage of total borrowingsnet in our capital structure. The ratio is calculated by dividing total borrowingsnet by total capital. Total borrowingsnet is the sum of current portion of long-term borrowings and long-term borrowingsnet on our consolidated balance sheets. Total capital is the sum of total borrowingsnet and total stockholders equity or deficit. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See BusinessSpecial Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 1 of this report for additional factors relating to these statements, and see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Business Overview and Presentation We offer data, Internet, video and voice services nationwide and globally. We generate the majority of our revenue from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We refer to this region as our local service area. Our operating revenue is primarily generated from our business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets segments. We group our products and services among major categories of products and services as described below: Strategic services , which include primarily private line, broadband, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, video (including DIRECTV), Verizon Wireless services and voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP; Legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, access, traditional wide area network, or WAN and integrated services digital network, or ISDN, services; Qwest-branded wireless services were wireless services that we provided through our mass markets segment under an arrangement with a wireless provider. We stopped providing these services on October 31, 2009; and Data integration is telecommunications equipment we sell that is located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers. Segment results presented in this Item 7 and in Note 16Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report are not indicative of the results of operations these segments would have achieved had they operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of this report. CenturyLink Merger On April 21, 2010, we entered into a merger agreement whereby CenturyLink will acquire us in a tax-free, stock-for-stock transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, our stockholders will receive 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock for each share of our common stock they own at closing. Based on our and CenturyLinks number of outstanding shares as of the date of the merger agreement, at closing CenturyLink shareholders are expected to own approximately 50.5% and our stockholders are expected to own approximately 49.5% of the combined company. On July 15, 2010, we received notification from the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission that we received early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, and as such have clearance from a federal antitrust perspective to proceed with the merger. On August 24, 2010, stockholders of each company approved all proposals relating to the merger. Completion of this transaction remains subject to a number of regulatory approvals as well as other customary closing conditions. We have received most of the necessary approvals from state public service or public utility commissions, but we 28 Table of Contents still need approvals from the FCC and several other state public service or public utility commissions. While the timing of the receipt of these approvals cannot be predicted with certainty, we currently expect to receive all required approvals in the first quarter and are planning toward an April 1st closing date. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay CenturyLink a termination fee of $350 million. As of December 31, 2010, we had recognized $39 million of expenses associated with our activities surrounding the pending CenturyLink merger. We have not recognized certain other expenses that are contingent on completion of the merger. These expenses include financial advisory fees and compensation expense comprised of retention bonuses, severance and stock-based compensation for stock-based awards that will vest in connection with the merger. These contingent expenses will be recognized in our consolidated financial statements commencing in the period in which the merger occurs. The final amount of compensation expense to be recognized is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that will be made as part of the integration planning. These amounts may be material. Upon completion of the merger, our assets and liabilities will be revalued and recorded at fair value. The assignment of fair value will require a significant amount of judgment. The use of fair value measures will affect the comparability of our post-merger financial information and may make it more difficult to predict earnings in future periods. For example, we have certain deferred costs and deferred revenues on our balance sheet associated with installation activities and capacity leases whereby we incurred costs and received payments up front but are recognizing the related expenses and revenues over the estimated life of the customer or life of the contract. Based on the accounting guidance for business combinations, these existing deferred costs and deferred revenues are expected to be assigned little or no value in the purchase price allocation process and will thus be eliminated. In 2010, we also recognized a $475 million loss due to the embedded option in our convertible debt being settled during the year. The embedded option was disqualified for equity treatment due to a requirement in the merger agreement to redeem this debt, including the option component, with cash. See Note 3Fair Value of Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information regarding the change in accounting for our previously outstanding convertible debt. For unaudited pro forma financial information relating to the merger, see the joint proxy statement /prospectus filed with the SEC by CenturyLink on July 19, 2010. Reclassifications During the first quarter of 2010, we changed the definitions we use to classify expenses as cost of sales, selling expenses or general, administrative and other operating expenses and, as a result, certain expenses in our consolidated statements of operations for the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Our new definitions of these expenses are as follows: Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are expenses incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These expenses include: facilities expenses (which are third-party telecommunications expenses we incur for using other carriers networks to provide services to our customers); employee-related expenses directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages and certain benefits); equipment sales expenses (such as data integration and modem expenses); rents and utilities expenses incurred by our network operations and data centers; fleet expenses; and other expenses directly related to our network operations (such as professional fees and outsourced services). Selling expenses are expenses incurred in selling products and services to our customers. These expenses include: employee-related expenses directly attributable to selling products or services (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions and certain benefits); marketing and advertising; external commissions; bad debt expense; and other selling expenses (such as professional fees and outsourced services). 29 Table of Contents General, administrative and other operating expenses are corporate overhead and other operating expenses. These expenses include: employee-related expenses for administrative functions (such as salaries, wages and certain benefits); taxes and fees (such as property and other taxes and USF charges); rents and utilities expenses incurred by our administrative offices; and other general, administrative and other operating expenses (such as professional fees). These expenses also include our combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses for all eligible employees and retirees. These definitions reflect changes primarily to reclassify expenses for: rent and utilities incurred by our network operations and data centers; fleet; network and supply chain management; and insurance and risk management from general, administrative and other operating expenses to cost of sales, where these expenses are more aligned with how we now manage our segments. We believe these changes allow users of our financial statements to better understand our expense structure. These expense classifications may not be comparable to those of other companies. These changes had no impact on total operating expenses or net income for any period. These changes resulted in the reclassification of $370 million and $371 million from the general, administrative and other operating expenses and selling expenses categories to cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate that we will change our definitions again once the merger with CenturyLink is complete in order to conform our definitions to those used by CenturyLink. In 2010, certain previously unallocated expenses were included in the information our Chief Operating Decision Maker, or CODM, uses to evaluate the performance of each segment and certain revenue and expenses were realigned based on changes in how we manage our business. The majority of our cost of sales and selling expenses are incurred directly by or allocated to our segments based on an activity based costing methodology. We have reclassified and reallocated certain prior year amounts in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 to conform to the current year presentation. During the first quarter of 2010 we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines where we provide the services. We now count broadband subscribers and access lines when we earn revenue associated with them. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates and residential lines that are used solely to provide broadband services. Our new broadband methodology also excludes business and wholesale markets customers from our broadband subscribers. During the first quarter of 2010 we also updated our methodology for counting our partnership based video and wireless subscribers. We now count these subscribers when we earn revenue associated with them, regardless of whether we actually bill the subscribers for the services. Our new methodology also excludes business and wholesale markets customers from our wireless subscribers. Beginning in mid-2009 we began to earn an ongoing commission associated with video customers that we no longer bill so long as they remain active customers of DIRECTV. Because of the change in this commission we have begun to include them in our subscriber counts. We use this same methodology for our wireless subscribers. This methodology change has increased our video subscribers by approximately 68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. We believe the methodology updates described above align our subscribers and access lines with our revenue and better reflect our ongoing operations. 30 Table of Contents We have restated our subscribers and access lines reported as of December 31, 2009 to conform to the current year presentation. The table below quantifies these changes by segment: December 31, 2009 Business Markets Mass Markets Wholesale Markets Total (in thousands) Previously reported access lines 2,396 6,840 1,030 10,266 Affiliates and us (403 ) (403 ) Alignment to billed units 10 25 27 62 Currently reported access lines 2,003 6,865 1,057 9,925 Previously reported broadband subscribers 2,974 2,974 Excluding business and wholesale customers (143 ) (143 ) Alignment to billed units (19 ) (19 ) Currently reported broadband subscribers 2,812 2,812 Previously reported video subscribers 880 880 Alignment to billed units 60 60 Currently reported video subscribers 940 940 Previously reported wireless subscribers 850 850 Excluding business and wholesale customers (1 ) (1 ) Alignment to billed units (11 ) (11 ) Currently reported wireless subscribers 838 838 We have restated our subscribers and access lines reported as of December 31, 2008 to conform to the current year presentation. The table below quantifies these changes by segment: December 31, 2008 Business Markets Mass Markets Wholesale Markets Total (in thousands) Previously reported access lines 2,636 7,796 1,133 11,565 Affiliates and us (484 ) (484 ) Alignment to billed units (6 ) 11 41 46 Currently reported access lines 2,146 7,807 1,174 11,127 Previously reported broadband subscribers 2,847 2,847 Excluding business and wholesale customers (151 ) (151 ) Alignment to billed units (44 ) (44 ) Currently reported broadband subscribers 2,652 2,652 Previously reported video subscribers 798 798 Alignment to billed units 16 16 Currently reported video subscribers 814 814 Previously reported wireless subscribers 717 717 Excluding business and wholesale customers (1 ) (1 ) Alignment to billed units (58 ) (58 ) Currently reported wireless subscribers 658 658 31 Table of Contents Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of this report. Business Trends Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are listed below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Most of these trends also impact our segment results, and therefore we provide a detailed discussion of these trends under the heading Segment Results below. Because we do not allocate capital expenditures or our combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit expenses to our segments, the related trends do not impact any of our segments. Instead, we provide a discussion of these expenses under the headings Operating ExpensesGeneral, Administrative and Other Operating Expenses, Liquidity and Capital ResourcesLong-Term View and Liquidity and Capital ResourcesHistorical ViewInvesting Activities below. Growth in strategic services Product bundling and promotions Greater operating efficiencies Continuing loss of access lines Elimination of Qwest-branded wireless revenue and expenses Pension funding and pension expense Disciplined capital expenditures While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, events and trends discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. Results of Operations Overview Each of our segments use our network to generate revenue by providing data, Internet and voice services to its customers, as described further below. Through our strategic partnerships with DIRECTV and Verizon Wireless, we also offer satellite digital television and wireless services to customers in our local service area. Depending on the products or services purchased, a customer may pay a service activation fee, a monthly service fee, a usage charge or a combination of these. Business markets. This segment provides data, Internet and voice services to our enterprise and government customers. Our business markets products and services include: Strategic services, which include primarily private line, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, broadband and VoIP services; Legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, traditional WAN, and ISDN services; and Data integration, which is telecommunications equipment we sell that is located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers. 32 Table of Contents Mass markets. This segment provides data, Internet, voice and resold video and wireless services to consumers and small business customers. Our mass markets products and services include: Strategic services, which include primarily broadband, video (including DIRECTV) and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services, which include primarily local and long-distance services; and Qwest-branded wireless services (until October 31, 2009). Wholesale markets . This segment provides data, Internet and voice services primarily to other telecommunications providers. Our wholesale markets products and services include: Strategic services, which are predominately private line services provided to other carriers; and Legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, access and traditional WAN services. We also generate other revenue from USF surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. We centrally manage this revenue, and consequently it is not assigned to any of our segments. Expenses for each of our segments include direct expenses incurred by the segment and other expenses assigned to the segment. Direct expenses incurred by the segment include segment specific employee-related costs (excluding any severance expenses and combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses), bad debt, equipment sales costs and other non-employee related costs such as customer support, collections, marketing and advertising. Other expenses assigned to the segments include network expenses, facility costs and other costs such as fleet, product management and real estate costs related to hosting and retail centers. Assigned expenses are determined by applying an activity-based costing methodology. We periodically review the methodology used to assign expenses to our segments. Changes to the methodology are reflected in prior period segment data for comparative purposes. We centrally manage expenses for administrative services (such as finance, computer systems development and support, real estate, legal and human resources), severance costs, restructuring charges and combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses for all employees and retirees; consequently, these expenses are not assigned to our segments. We evaluate depreciation, amortization, information technology impairment charges and interest expense on a total company basis because we do not allocate assets or debt to specific segments. As a result, these items, along with other non-operating income or expenses, are not assigned to any segment. Therefore, the segment results presented below are not indicative of the results of operations these segments would have achieved had they operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented. 33 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenue by category: Strategic and legacy services: Strategic services $ 4,489 $ 4,217 $ 3,985 $ 272 $ 232 6 % 6 % Legacy services 6,257 7,075 8,103 (818 ) (1,028 ) (12 )% (13 )% Total strategic and legacy services 10,746 11,292 12,088 (546 ) (796 ) (5 )% (7 )% Qwest-branded wireless services 112 460 (112 ) (348 ) nm (76 )% Data integration 604 557 570 47 (13 ) 8 % (2 )% Total segment revenue 11,350 11,961 13,118 (611 ) (1,157 ) (5 )% (9 )% Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 380 350 357 30 (7 ) 9 % (2 )% Total operating revenue 11,730 12,311 13,475 (581 ) (1,164 ) (5 )% (9 )% Operating expenses 9,729 10,336 11,378 (607 ) (1,042 ) (6 )% (9 )% Other expensenet 1,551 1,072 1,046 479 26 45 % 2 % Income before income taxes 450 903 1,051 (453 ) (148 ) (50 )% (14 )% Income tax expense 505 241 399 264 (158 ) 110 % (40 )% Net (loss) income $ (55 ) $ 662 $ 652 $ (717 ) $ 10 (108 )% 2 % (Loss) earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.03 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ (0.41 ) $ (108 )% % Diluted $ (0.03 ) $ 0.38 $ 0.37 $ (0.41 ) $ 0.01 (108 )% 3 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of total operating revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in percentages of total operating revenue) Operating revenue by category: Strategic and legacy services: Strategic services 38 % 34 % 30 % Legacy services 54 % 58 % 60 % Total strategic and legacy services 92 % 92 % 90 % Qwest-branded wireless services % % 3 % Data integration 5 % 5 % 4 % Total segment revenue 97 % 97 % 97 % Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 3 % 3 % 3 % Total operating revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Operating expenses 83 % 84 % 84 % Other expensenet 13 % 9 % 8 % Income before income taxes 4 % 7 % 8 % Income tax expense 4 % 2 % 3 % Net (loss) income % 5 % 5 % 34 Table of Contents The following table summarizes some of our key operational measures for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 (in thousands except employees) Employees 28,343 30,138 32,937 (1,795 ) (2,799 ) (6 )% (8 )% Total broadband subscribers 2,914 2,812 2,652 102 160 4 % 6 % Total video subscribers 1,003 940 814 63 126 7 % 15 % Total wireless subscribers 1,086 838 658 248 180 30 % 27 % Total access lines 8,855 9,925 11,127 (1,070 ) (1,202 ) (11 )% (11 )% 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Operating Revenue Although strategic services revenue increased, a decrease in legacy services and Qwest-branded wireless services revenue resulted in lower total operating revenue. Strategic services revenue increased primarily due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking , as well as higher broadband revenue resulting from an increase in subscribers and an improving mix of higher priced, higher speed services as well as increased volumes in our private line services. Legacy services revenue decreased as a result of lower local services revenue due to access line losses resulting from competitive pressures, along with product substitution. Lower demand for our long-distance services, traditional WAN services and access services, due to customer migration, product substitution and increased competition also contributed to the decrease in our legacy services revenue. We stopped selling Qwest-branded wireless services in October 2009 due to our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. We recognize revenue from Verizon Wireless services on a net basis and categorize this revenue as strategic services revenue, whereas we recognized revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services on a gross basis and categorized this revenue as a separate category of revenue. Due to this transition, we recognized no revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services in the year ended December 31, 2010 and will not recognize any revenue from these services in future periods. This transition has resulted in lower wireless services revenue, but has favorably impacted our overall profitability. Revenue from data integration increased primarily due to professional services for installation of customer premise equipment. Other revenue, primarily USF surcharges, which we account for on a gross basis, increased for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to an increase in the USF contribution factor. We passed along this increase to our customers to align our USF revenue with our USF expenses. This increase was partially offset by decreased revenue associated with our services subject to USF contributions. 35 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table provides further detail regarding our total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2010 v 2009 2010 v 2009 (Dollars in millions) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 3,804 $ 4,088 $ (284 ) (7 )% Selling 1,702 1,944 (242 ) (12 )% General, administrative and other operating 2,023 1,993 30 2 % Depreciation and amortization 2,200 2,311 (111 ) (5 )% Total operating expenses $ 9,729 $ 10,336 $ (607 ) (6 )% Cost of Sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of sales decreased primarily due to decreased facilities expenses as a result of both lower rates and lower volumes for long-distance service, the migration of our wireless customers from our Qwest-branded wireless services as well as cost optimization. Cost of sales also decreased due to lower salaries and wages related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in equipment sales expense related to data integration and an increase in professional fees. Selling Expenses Selling expenses decreased due to decreased employee-related expenses for salaries, wages and severance related to prior period employee reductions and decreased internal commissions driven by lower sales headcount. Selling expenses also decreased due to lower bad debt expense resulting from our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services and our reduction in revenue. The migration to internal sales call centers from using third-party sales call centers also decreased selling expenses. In addition, lower professional fees and external commissions also reduced selling expenses. These decreases in expenses were partially offset by a legal settlement during 2010 and increased expenses associated with the acceleration of stock-based compensation. General, Administrative and Other Operating Expenses General, administrative and other operating expenses increased due to increased employee-related expenses for salaries and wages associated with the acceleration of stock-based compensation. On December 21, 2010, we accelerated the vesting of certain restricted stock and performance share awards issued under our Equity Incentive Plan in order to preserve certain economic benefits to our stockholders of approximately $120 million that otherwise would have been lost in connection with our pending merger with CenturyLink. General, administrative and other operating expenses also increased primarily due to expenses associated with the pending CenturyLink merger and increased taxes and fees primarily related to USF charges as a result of an increase in the USF contribution factor mandated by the FCC and an adjustment resulting from prior period assessments. These increases were partially offset by decreases in pension and post-retirement benefits expenses during 2010 and a legal settlement in the third quarter of 2009. We recorded combined pension and post-retirement benefits expenses of $124 million in 2010 as compared to $196 million for 2009. The decrease in combined net periodic benefits expense in 2010 is primarily due to our decision to no longer provide pension benefit accruals for active management employees under our qualified and non-qualified pension plans, the elimination of the qualified and non-qualified pension plan death benefits for 36 Table of Contents eligible beneficiaries of certain retirees and reduced interest cost, partially offset by an increase in actuarial losses. Actuarial gains or losses reflect the differences between earlier actuarial assumptions and what actually occurred. Pension and post-retirement benefits expenses are based on several assumptions, including discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are set at December 31 of each year. We expect to record combined net periodic expense of approximately $106 million in 2011. The expected decrease in combined net periodic expense in 2011 is primarily due to decreased interest cost partially offset by a decrease in the expected return on assets. For additional information on our pension and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Depreciation and Amortization The following table breaks out depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2010 v 2009 2010 v 2009 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation $ 1,949 $ 2,071 $ (122 ) (6 )% Amortization 251 240 11 5 % Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,200 $ 2,311 $ (111 ) (5 )% Although our capital expenditures fluctuate from year to year, we continue to see decreased depreciation expense due to significantly lower capital expenditures and the changing mix of our investment in property, plant and equipment since 2002. If we do not significantly shorten our estimates of the useful lives of our assets, we expect that our depreciation expense will continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. Amortization expense was higher for the year ended December 31, 2010 due to increases in internally developed capitalized software. Effective January 1, 2010, we changed our estimates of the economic lives of certain telecommunications equipment assets. These changes resulted in additional depreciation expense of approximately $50 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Other Consolidated Results The following table provides detail regarding other expense (income)net and income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2010 v 2009 2010 v 2009 (Dollars in millions) Other expense (income)net: Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet $ 1,039 $ 1,089 $ (50 ) (5 )% Loss on embedded option in convertible debt 475 475 nm Loss on early retirement of debt 45 45 nm Othernet (8 ) (17 ) (9 ) (53 )% Total other expense (income)net $ 1,551 $ 1,072 $ 479 45 % Income tax expense $ 505 $ 241 $ 264 110 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. 37 Table of Contents Other Expense (Income)Net Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet decreased primarily due to debt maturities and early retirement of debt, partially offset by interest on new debt. The loss on the embedded option in our convertible debt resulted from stock appreciation well above any that was implied through historical volatility. For additional information, see Note 3Fair Value of Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. In November and December 2010, we redeemed all of the then-outstanding $1.118 billion aggregate principal amount of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (referred to as our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes) and the remaining embedded option for $616 million. This resulted in no gain or loss on the notes and a total loss of $475 million on the embedded conversion option for the year ended December 31, 2010. In February 2010, we redeemed $525 million aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes due 2011, resulting in an immaterial loss. In the first and third quarters of 2010, we completed cash tender offers for the purchase of certain of our outstanding debt securities. We received and accepted tenders of approximately $1.107 billion aggregate principal amount of notes for $1.169 billion, resulting in an aggregate loss of $43 million. Othernet includes, among other things, interest income, income tax penalties, other interest expense (such as interest on income taxes), and equity method investment losses. The change in othernet in 2010 compared to 2009 is due to an equity method investment loss in 2009, offset by lower tax interest credits and lower interest income. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by $264 million as a result of the tax treatment of the premium paid on our convertible debt, the March 2010 enactments of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, the tax treatment of the expenses incurred when we accelerated the vesting of certain stock-based compensation and the tax treatment of certain expenses associated with the pending CenturyLink merger, as well our recognition in 2009 of previously unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax positions and favorable income tax settlements related to prior years. As described above, we recorded $475 million of expenses associated with extinguishing our convertible notes with cash. These expenses are not deductible for income tax purposes and, as such, they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 40.8 percentage points. Among other things, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 will disallow federal income tax deductions for retiree prescription drug benefits to the extent we receive reimbursements for those benefits under the Medicare Part D program. Although this tax increase does not take effect until 2013, under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. we recognize the full accounting impact in the period in which the laws are enacted, which increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 25.5 percentage points. On December 21, 2010, we accelerated the vesting of certain restricted stock and performance share awards issued under our Equity Incentive Plan in order to preserve certain economic benefits to our stockholders of $120 million that otherwise would have been lost in connection with our pending merger with CenturyLink. However, certain of the expenses we recorded for this acceleration are not deductible for income tax purposes, and as such they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 4.8 percentage points. During the year ended December 31, 2010 we incurred approximately $39 million of expenses associated with the pending CenturyLink merger. Certain of these expenses are not deductible for income tax purposes and, as such, they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 1.9 percentage points. 38 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized previously unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax positions and favorable income tax settlements related to prior years, which decreased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 by 11.1 percentage points. We had previously estimated and reported that our expected on-going income tax rate would be approximately 39%, but due largely to the loss of the Medicare subsidy permanent item we now estimate that our on-going expected effective income tax rate will be in the range of approximately 39% to 41%. However, in the near-term, our effective tax rate may continue to be impacted by expenses associated with activities surrounding the pending CenturyLink merger, which may cause our effective tax rate to be higher than our expected on-going effective income tax rate range of approximately 39% to 41%. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 12Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Segment Results The following table summarizes our segment results for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2010 v 2009 2010 v 2009 (Dollars in millions) Total segment revenue $ 11,350 $ 11,961 $ (611 ) (5 )% Total segment expenses 5,463 5,974 (511 ) (9 )% Total segment income $ 5,887 $ 5,987 $ (100 ) (2 )% Total segment margin percentage 52 % 50 % 2 % Business markets: Revenue $ 4,037 $ 4,028 $ 9 % Expenses 2,416 2,459 (43 ) (2 )% Income $ 1,621 $ 1,569 $ 52 3 % Margin percentage 40 % 39 % 1 % Mass markets: Revenue $ 4,659 $ 5,020 $ (361 ) (7 )% Expenses 2,186 2,415 (229 ) (9 )% Income $ 2,473 $ 2,605 $ (132 ) (5 )% Margin percentage 53 % 52 % 1 % Wholesale markets: Revenue $ 2,654 $ 2,913 $ (259 ) (9 )% Expenses 861 1,100 (239 ) (22 )% Income $ 1,793 $ 1,813 $ (20 ) (1 )% Margin percentage 68 % 62 % 6 % As discussed above, we categorize our overall and segment revenue among major categories depending on the types of services from which the revenue is generated. These categories include strategic services, legacy services, data integration and until October 2009 Qwest-branded wireless services, each of which is described in more detail above. In addition, at the segment level we categorize our expenses among major categories depending on how the expenses are incurred. These categories include: Data integration expenses, which are our costs to provide customer premise equipment that our business markets segment sells to its customers and represent a substantial portion, but not all of the total expenses our business markets segment incurs to generate our data integration revenue, and are included in both selling expenses and in cost of sales; 39 Table of Contents Customer service expenses, which are expenses incurred in managing interactions with our customers including care centers, operator services, technical support operations, programming and fulfillment expenses, billing and collection services, and bad debt, and are included primarily in selling expenses; Facilities expenses, which are expenses incurred from using other carriers networks for providing telecommunications services, including our previously offered Qwest-branded wireless services, and the related regulatory, tax and other fees, and are included in cost of sales; Segment overhead expenses, which are expenses incurred for segment administration, back office support operations, rent and utilities incurred by our retail sales centers and data centers, segment executive management, and product and pricing management, and are included in both selling expenses and in cost of sales; Network, engineering and other operating expenses, which are expenses incurred for network maintenance and repair, network construction and engineering, network administrative and operations support, network rent and utilities, fleet, insurance and risk management, and supply chain management, and are included primarily in cost of sales; and Customer acquisition and provisioning expenses, which are expenses incurred for the sales and related technical support, marketing and advertising of products and services, installation expenses, and service related equipment, and are included in both selling expenses and in cost of sales. 40 Table of Contents The following table reconciles segment revenue to total operating revenue and segment expenses to total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Business Markets Mass Markets Wholesale Markets Total Segment Business Markets Mass Markets Wholesale Markets Total Segment (Dollars in millions, access lines in thousands) Segment revenue: Strategic services $ 1,709 $ 1,495 $ 1,285 $ 4,489 $ 1,584 $ 1,398 $ 1,235 $ 4,217 Legacy services 1,724 3,164 1,369 6,257 1,887 3,510 1,678 7,075 Total strategic and legacy services 3,433 4,659 2,654 10,746 3,471 4,908 2,913 11,292 Data integration 604 604 557 557 Qwest-branded wireless services 112 112 Total segment revenue $ 4,037 $ 4,659 $ 2,654 11,350 $ 4,028 $ 5,020 $ 2,913 11,961 Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 380 350 Total operating revenue $ 11,730 $ 12,311 Segment expenses: Data integration $ 426 $ $ $ 426 $ 390 $ $ $ 390 Customer service 102 302 53 457 113 372 88 573 Facilities 772 133 484 1,389 793 181 643 1,617 Segment overhead 125 62 43 230 124 69 48 241 Network, engineering and other operating 383 1,012 203 1,598 393 1,050 227 1,670 Customer acquisition and provisioning 608 677 78 1,363 646 743 94 1,483 Total segment expenses $ 2,416 $ 2,186 $ 861 5,463 $ 2,459 $ 2,415 $ 1,100 5,974 Unassigned expenses (primarily general and administrative) 2,066 2,051 Depreciation and amortization 2,200 2,311 Total operating expenses $ 9,729 $ 10,336 Total access lines (1) 8,855 9,925 (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. 41 Table of Contents Business Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our business markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2010 v 2009 2010 v 2009 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,709 $ 1,584 $ 125 8 % Legacy services 1,724 1,887 (163 ) (9 )% Total strategic and legacy services 3,433 3,471 (38 ) (1 )% Data integration 604 557 47 8 % Total revenue 4,037 4,028 9 % Expenses: Data integration 426 390 36 9 % Customer service 102 113 (11 ) (10 )% Facilities 772 793 (21 ) (3 )% Segment overhead 125 124 1 1 % Network, engineering and other operating 383 393 (10 ) (3 )% Customer acquisition and provisioning 608 646 (38 ) (6 )% Total expenses 2,416 2,459 (43 ) (2 )% Income $ 1,621 $ 1,569 $ 52 3 % Margin percentage 40 % 39 % 1 % The following table summarizes the access lines for our business markets segment as of December 31, 2010 and 2009: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Access lines (1) 1,872 2,003 (131 ) (7 )% (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. The financial results for our business markets segment continue to be impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. Strategic services. Our mix of total revenue continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our customers increasingly demand customized and integrated data, Internet and voice services. We offer diverse combinations of emerging technology products and services such as Qwest iQ Networking , private line, hosting, and VoIP services. These services afford our customers more flexibility in managing their communications needs and enable us to partner with them to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their operations. Although we are experiencing price compression on our strategic services, we expect overall revenue from these services to continue to grow. Legacy services. We face intense competition and price compression with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and into strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenue has been and we expect it will continue to be adversely affected by access line losses. 42 Table of Contents Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our productivity improvements. Through planned reductions and normal employee attrition, we have reduced our workforce while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. Revenue Strategic services revenue was 42% and 39% of our total business markets revenue for the year ended December 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenue from strategic services increased due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking . Legacy services revenue was 43% and 47% of our total business markets revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenue from legacy services declined as a result of lower demand for our traditional WAN services as some customers migrated to our strategic services, including Qwest iQ Networking . Lower local services revenue due to access line losses also resulted in decreased legacy services revenue. Revenue from data integration increased primarily due to increased equipment sales and professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premise equipment. Expenses Data integration expenses increased primarily due to increased sales. Customer service expenses decreased due to lower bad debt as a result of improved collections experience. Facilities expenses decreased due to decreased volumes in traditional WAN services, continued cost optimization and better domestic rates for long-distance services, partially offset by increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking . Network, engineering and other operating expenses decreased due to reduced headcount in maintenance and operations support and lower third-party support expenses as we continue to adjust our workforce as we improve our productivity. Customer acquisition and provisioning expenses decreased as we increased productivity attributable to lower sales headcount, partially offset by increased expenses associated with short-term sales incentives. Income We continued to reduce maintenance, operations and sales headcount and optimized facilities expenses in an effort to improve our overall cost efficiency. Despite a 2010 legal settlement, intense competition and continued unstable general economic conditions, we were able to grow our margin percentage one percentage point to 40% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 as a result of our continued focus on strategic services and managing costs. 43 Table of Contents Mass Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our mass markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2010 v 2009 2010 v 2009 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,495 $ 1,398 $ 97 7 % Legacy services 3,164 3,510 (346 ) (10 )% Total strategic and legacy services 4,659 4,908 (249 ) (5 )% Qwest-branded wireless services 112 (112 ) nm Total revenue 4,659 5,020 (361 ) (7 )% Expenses: Customer service 302 372 (70 ) (19 )% Facilities 133 181 (48 ) (27 )% Segment overhead 62 69 (7 ) (10 )% Network, engineering and other operating 1,012 1,050 (38 ) (4 )% Customer acquisition and provisioning 677 743 (66 ) (9 )% Total expenses 2,186 2,415 (229 ) (9 )% Income $ 2,473 $ 2,605 $ (132 ) (5 )% Margin percentage 53 % 52 % 1 % nmComparisons to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. The following table summarizes some of the key operational measures for our mass markets segment as of December 31, 2010 and 2009: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Broadband subscribers (1) 2,914 2,812 102 4 % Video subscribers (1) 1,003 940 63 7 % Access lines (1) 6,038 6,865 (827 ) (12 )% Wireless subscribers (1) 1,086 838 248 30 % (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. The financial results for our mass markets segment continue to be impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. Strategic services. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services in our mass markets segment. We reached approximately 2.9 million broadband subscribers at December 31, 2010 compared to approximately 2.8 million at December 31, 2009. Due to price compression, we believe the ability to continually increase connection speeds is competitively important. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which we launched to meet customer demand for higher broadband speeds. In addition to the FTTN deployment, we continue to expand our product offerings and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a 44 Table of Contents competitive and maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers already have broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and grow our broadband subscribers. Access lines. Our revenue has been, and we expect it will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has increased the number and type of competitors within our industry and has decreased our market share. We expect that these factors will continue to impact our business. Product bundling and other product promotions, as described below, continue to be some of our responses to offset the loss of revenue as a result of access line losses. Product bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While video and wireless subscribers are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not make a large contribution to strategic services revenue. We believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer limited time promotions on our broadband service for qualifying customers who have our broadband product in their bundle, which we believe will positively affect our acquisition volume and drive customers to purchase more expanded offerings. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenue for our individual products, we believe product bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload, productivity improvements, changes in the telecommunications industry and governmental regulations. Through planned reductions and normal employee attrition, we have reduced our workforce and employee-related expenses while achieving operational efficiencies and improving processes through automation and other innovative ways of operating our business. Wireless revenue and expenses. In April 2008, we signed a five-year agreement with Verizon Wireless to market and sell its wireless services under its brand name. We began selling these services in the third quarter of 2008. Until October 31, 2009, we also provided Qwest-branded wireless services under an arrangement with a different wireless services provider. We recognize revenue from Verizon Wireless services on a net basis, whereas we recognized revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services on a gross basis. This difference in the treatment of revenue results in lower revenue and lower expenses (such as lower equipment sales expense, lower bad debt expense and elimination of customer care and facilities expenses) with respect to Verizon Wireless services when compared to Qwest-branded wireless services. We categorize revenue from Verizon Wireless services as strategic services revenue and revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services as a separate category of revenue. Revenue Strategic services revenue represented 32% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 28% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Strategic services revenue increased primarily due to an increase in broadband subscribers and an improving mix of higher priced, higher speed services. Legacy services revenue decreased primarily due to declines in local services volumes. Legacy services revenue also decreased due to lower long-distance volumes, partially offset by higher long-distance rates. These declines were driven by access line losses resulting from the competitive pressures and product substitution described above. Qwest-branded wireless services revenue decreased as we stopped selling Qwest-branded wireless services in October 2009 and completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. 45 Table of Contents Expenses Customer service expenses decreased due to lower bad debt expense resulting from our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services and our reduction in revenue. We also reduced customer service expenses as our reduction in customers led to the closure of a billing and collections center and an operator agent center. Facilities expenses decreased as we stopped selling Qwest-branded wireless services in October 2009 and completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. Network, engineering and other operating expenses decreased due to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to adjust our workforce to reflect our workload. Customer acquisition and provisioning expenses decreased as sales volumes declined and as we have tried to make our sales process more efficient through sales headcount reductions. Migration to using internal sales call centers from using third-party sales call centers and reduced spending associated with direct mail and media have further improved our sales and marketing expenses. Income Expense reductions due to reduced network workforce expenses, customer acquisition and provisioning, customer service expenses, and our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services improved our margin percentage by approximately one percentage point to 53% for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to 52% for the year ended December 31, 2009. We continue to experience income pressure as a result of access line losses, driven by intense competition and product substitution. Wholesale Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our wholesale markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2010 v 2009 2010 v 2009 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,285 $ 1,235 $ 50 4 % Legacy services 1,369 1,678 (309 ) (18 )% Total revenue 2,654 2,913 (259 ) (9 )% Expenses: Customer service 53 88 (35 ) (40 )% Facilities 484 643 (159 ) (25 )% Segment overhead 43 48 (5 ) (10 )% Network, engineering and other operating 203 227 (24 ) (11 )% Customer acquisition and provisioning 78 94 (16 ) (17 )% Total expenses 861 1,100 (239 ) (22 )% Income $ 1,793 $ 1,813 $ (20 ) (1 )% Margin percentage 68 % 62 % 6 % 46 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the access lines for our wholesale markets segment as of December 31, 2010 and 2009: December 31, 2010 2009 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Access lines (1) 945 1,057 (112 ) (11 )% (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. The financial results for our wholesale markets segment continue to be impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. Private line services. Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment, we ultimately believe the growth in fiber based private line will offset our decline in copper based private line, although the timing of this technological migration is uncertain. Access and local services revenue. Our access and local services revenue has been, and we expect it will continue to be, adversely affected by technological migration and industry consolidation. For example, consumers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. We expect these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment. Long-distance services revenue . We continue to take a disciplined approach to long-distance profitability; however, revenue continues to decline as a result of customer migration to more technologically advanced services, declining demand for traditional voice services and industry consolidation. Revenue Our total revenue was negatively impacted by industry consolidation, price compression, and our customers optimization of their networks. Strategic services revenue was 48% and 42% of our total wholesale markets revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Strategic services revenue primarily increased due to increased volumes in our private line services. Legacy services revenue declined due to decreases in long-distance services revenue driven by: customer migration to more technologically advanced services; decreasing demand for traditional voice services; and industry consolidation. In addition, access and local services revenue declined due to access line losses, continued intense competition and declining demand for UNEs. Traditional WAN services also declined due to industry consolidation and customer migration to more advanced technology services. Expenses Customer service expenses decreased primarily due to: lower bad debt expense as a result of dispute settlements and corresponding allowance reductions; lower external commissions expenses in operator services due to decreased volumes; and increased productivity attributable to reduced headcount. Facilities expenses decreased due to a decline in our long-distance services volumes and rates, as a result of declining demand for traditional voice services and the effects of industry consolidation. 47 Table of Contents Network, engineering and other operating expenses decreased as a result of employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to adjust our workforce to reflect our workload and lower repair expenses as we experienced a lower volume of repairs. Customer acquisition and provisioning expenses decreased as we increased productivity through lower sales headcount. Income Our margin percentage increased approximately six percentage points to 68% for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to 62% for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to a change in the mix of products and services and cost efficiencies. We continue to experience income pressure as a result of decreased access and local services and the impact of customer network optimization in strategic services. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Operating Revenue Although strategic services revenue increased primarily due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking , a decrease in legacy services and Qwest-branded wireless services revenue resulted in lower total operating revenue. Strategic services revenue also increased due to higher broadband revenue resulting from an increase in subscribers, partially offset by rate discounts. Verizon Wireless services revenue also increased as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services from Qwest-branded wireless services. The increase in strategic services revenue was also a result of an increase in private line services revenue due to higher volumes, partially offset by lower rates. Legacy services revenue decreased as a result of lower local services revenue due to access line losses resulting from competitive pressures, along with product substitution. Legacy services revenue also decreased due to a decline in long-distance services revenue primarily driven by our focus on improving the profitability of this service. Lower demand for our traditional WAN services, due to customer migration, also contributed to the decrease in our legacy services revenue. Revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services was also lower primarily due to our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. We recognize revenue from Verizon Wireless services on a net basis and categorize this revenue as strategic services revenue, whereas we recognized revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services on a gross basis and categorized this revenue as a separate category of revenue. The transition to selling Verizon Wireless services resulted in lower wireless services revenue, but favorably impacted our overall profitability. Revenue from data integration decreased due to lower volumes of equipment and installation sales as a result of economic pressures, partially offset by increased professional services. In addition to the specific items discussed below, we believe declining general economic conditions negatively impacted our revenue in 2009. 48 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table provides further detail regarding our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 4,088 $ 4,956 $ (868 ) (18 )% Selling 1,944 2,188 (244 ) (11 )% General, administrative and other operating 1,993 1,880 113 6 % Depreciation and amortization 2,311 2,354 (43 ) (2 )% Total operating expenses $ 10,336 $ 11,378 $ (1,042 ) (9 )% Cost of Sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of sales decreased primarily due to decreased facilities expenses as a result of both lower rates and lower volumes for long-distance service, the migration of our wireless customers from our Qwest-branded wireless services as well as cost optimization. Cost of sales also decreased due to lower salaries and wages related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. Selling Expenses Selling expenses decreased due to reduced spending associated with direct mail and media, reduced bad debt expense, decreased employee-related expenses for salaries and wages related to prior period employee reductions and decreased internal commissions driven by lower sales headcount. The migration to internal sales call centers from using third-party sales call centers also decreased selling expenses. In addition, lower professional fees and external commissions also reduced selling expenses. These decreases were partially offset by increases in severance expenses. General, Administrative and Other Operating Expenses General, administrative and other operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in pension and post-retirement benefits expenses of $210 million. In 2008 we recognized combined net periodic benefits income, as pension income exceeded post-retirement benefit expense for the year. However, during 2008 we experienced significant losses on our pension and post-retirement benefit plan assets, which significantly impacted the pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recorded in 2009. We recorded approximately $196 million in combined net periodic benefits expense for 2009 as compared to combined net periodic benefits income of $14 million for 2008. The 2009 expense is net of a $13 million gain we recognized as a result of our decision to no longer provide pension benefit accruals for active management employees under our qualified and non-qualified pension plans on or after January 1, 2010. The shift from recording combined net periodic income to recording combined net periodic expense was primarily due to a decrease in expected return on plan assets as a result of lower plan asset values and an increase in net actuarial losses. Actuarial gains or losses reflect the differences between earlier actuarial assumptions and what actually occurred. For additional information on our pension and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. General, administrative and other operating expenses also increased due to an increase in taxes and fees as a result of a $40 million favorable property tax settlement and other favorable adjustments recorded in 2008 as 49 Table of Contents well as by the 2008 reversal of a reserve resulting from a favorable lease termination. These increases were partially offset by lower USF charges, real estate and occupancy expenses, lower severance expenses as a result of workforce reductions in 2008 as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload, lower litigation charges and settlements, as well as reductions in professional fees, materials, supplies and marketing expenses. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation $ 2,071 $ 2,120 $ (49 ) (2 )% Amortization 240 234 6 3 % Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,311 $ 2,354 $ (43 ) (2 )% Amortization expense was higher for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to increases in internally developed capitalized software used to support our operations. Effective January 1, 2009, we changed our estimates of the economic lives of certain copper cable and telecommunications equipment assets. These changes resulted in additional depreciation expense of approximately $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Although our capital expenditures fluctuate from year to year, we continue to see decreased depreciation expense due to significantly lower capital expenditures and the changing mix of our investment in property, plant and equipment since 2002. We made a decision in June 2008 to discontinue certain product and service offerings and as a result we changed our estimates of the economic lives of certain assets used in providing those products and services, which resulted in the acceleration of depreciation of those assets beginning in the third quarter of 2008. As a result, we recorded $19 million of additional depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. These assets were fully depreciated as of December 31, 2009. The additional depreciation for both of the changes described above, net of deferred taxes, reduced net income by approximately $35 million, or approximately $0.02 per basic and diluted common share for the year ended December 31, 2009. Other Consolidated Results The following table provides detail regarding other expense (income)net and income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Other expense (income)net: Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet $ 1,089 $ 1,069 $ 20 2 % Othernet (17 ) (23 ) (6 ) (26 )% Total other expense (income)net $ 1,072 $ 1,046 $ 26 2 % Income tax expense $ 241 $ 399 $ (158 ) (40 )% 50 Table of Contents Other Expense (Income)Net Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet increased due to the issuance of $811 million of new debt in the second quarter of 2009 and $550 million of new debt in the third quarter of 2009, partially offset by decreased interest expense due to debt maturities, decreased capitalized interest expense due to lower capital expenditures and decreasing interest rates on floating rate debt. Othernet includes, among other things, interest income, income tax penalties, other interest expense (such as interest on income taxes), gains or losses related to certain fair value interest rate hedges and underlying debt and gains or losses on investments. The change in othernet was primarily due to lower interest income resulting from lower interest rates in 2009, partially offset by a higher average cash balance in 2009. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased primarily because of our recognition in 2009 of previously unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax positions and favorable income tax settlements related to prior years. Income tax expense also decreased due to the decrease in current income before income taxes. The previously unrecognized tax benefits and favorable settlements decreased our effective income tax rate to 26.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 38.0% for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had $58 million of unrecognized tax benefits that could affect our effective tax rate in the future. We will continue to defer recognition of these tax benefits until we settle the issues with the taxing authorities or the tax law is clarified in a way that makes it more likely than not that we will receive the benefits. Absent the recognition of these or other discrete items that we may record, we expect our future effective income tax rate will approximate 39%. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 12Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Segment Results The following table summarizes our segment results for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Total segment revenue $ 11,961 $ 13,118 $ (1,157 ) (9 )% Total segment expenses 5,974 7,078 (1,104 ) (16 )% Total segment income $ 5,987 $ 6,040 $ (53 ) (1 )% Total segment margin percentage 50 % 46 % 4 % Business markets: Revenue $ 4,028 $ 4,029 $ (1 ) % Expenses 2,459 2,556 (97 ) (4 )% Income $ 1,569 $ 1,473 $ 96 7 % Margin percentage 39 % 37 % 2 % Mass markets: Revenue $ 5,020 $ 5,746 $ (726 ) (13 )% Expenses 2,415 3,035 (620 ) (20 )% Income $ 2,605 $ 2,711 $ (106 ) (4 )% Margin percentage 52 % 47 % 5 % Wholesale markets: Revenue $ 2,913 $ 3,343 $ (430 ) (13 )% Expenses 1,100 1,487 (387 ) (26 )% Income $ 1,813 $ 1,856 $ (43 ) (2 )% Margin percentage 62 % 56 % 6 % 51 Table of Contents The following table reconciles segment revenue to total operating revenue and segment expenses to total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Business Markets Mass Markets Wholesale Markets Total Segment Business Markets Mass Markets Wholesale Markets Total Segment (Dollars in millions, access lines in thousands) Segment revenue: Strategic services $ 1,584 $ 1,398 $ 1,235 $ 4,217 $ 1,401 $ 1,333 $ 1,251 $ 3,985 Legacy services 1,887 3,510 1,678 7,075 2,058 3,953 2,092 8,103 Total strategic and legacy services 3,471 4,908 2,913 11,292 3,459 5,286 3,343 12,088 Data integration 557 557 570 570 Qwest-branded wireless services 112 112 460 460 Total segment revenue $ 4,028 $ 5,020 $ 2,913 11,961 $ 4,029 $ 5,746 $ 3,343 13,118 Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 350 357 Total operating revenue $ 12,311 $ 13,475 Segment expenses: Data integration $ 390 $ $ $ 390 $ 392 $ $ $ 392 Customer service 113 372 88 573 121 461 113 695 Facilities 793 181 643 1,617 798 434 947 2,179 Segment overhead 124 69 48 241 123 79 49 251 Network, engineering and other operating 393 1,050 227 1,670 415 1,132 274 1,821 Customer acquisition and provisioning 646 743 94 1,483 707 929 104 1,740 Total segment expenses $ 2,459 $ 2,415 $ 1,100 5,974 $ 2,556 $ 3,035 $ 1,487 7,078 Unassigned expenses (primarily general and administrative) 2,051 1,946 Depreciation and amortization 2,311 2,354 Total operating expenses $ 10,336 $ 11,378 Total access lines (1) 9,925 11,127 (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. 52 Table of Contents Business Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our business markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,584 $ 1,401 $ 183 13 % Legacy services 1,887 2,058 (171 ) (8 )% Total strategic and legacy services 3,471 3,459 12 % Data integration 557 570 (13 ) (2 )% Total revenue 4,028 4,029 (1 ) % Expenses: Data integration 390 392 (2 ) (1 )% Customer service 113 121 (8 ) (7 )% Facilities 793 798 (5 ) (1 )% Segment overhead 124 123 1 1 % Network, engineering and other operating 393 415 (22 ) (5 )% Customer acquisition and provisioning 646 707 (61 ) (9 )% Total expenses 2,459 2,556 (97 ) (4 )% Income $ 1,569 $ 1,473 $ 96 7 % Margin percentage 39 % 37 % 2 % The following table summarizes the access lines for our business markets segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 2008 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Access lines (1) 2,003 2,146 (143 ) (7 )% (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. Revenue Strategic services revenue was 39% and 35% of our total business markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue from strategic services increased primarily due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking . Private line services revenue also increased due to higher volumes, partially offset by lower rates. Legacy services revenue was 47% and 51% of our total business markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue from legacy services declined as a result of lower demand for our traditional WAN services as some customers migrated to our strategic services, including Qwest iQ Networking and access line losses. Revenue from data integration decreased due to lower volumes of equipment and installation sales as a result of economic pressures, partially offset by increased professional services. 53 Table of Contents Expenses Facilities expenses decreased due to decreased volumes in traditional WAN services, continued cost optimization and better domestic rates for long-distance services, partially offset by increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking . Network, engineering and other operating expenses decreased due to reduced headcount in maintenance and operations support and lower third-party support expenses as we continued to adjust our workforce as we improve our productivity. Customer acquisition and provisioning expenses decreased primarily due to lower commission payouts as well as increased productivity attributable to lower sales headcount. Income Continued execution on operating initiatives that improved our overall cost efficiency drove our margin percentage to 39% from 37% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We continue to be subject to intense competition, customer migration to strategic services and unstable general economic conditions; however, as a result of our continued focus on strategic services and managing costs, we were able to grow income and expand our margin percentage by approximately two percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. Mass Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our mass markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,398 $ 1,333 $ 65 5 % Legacy services 3,510 3,953 (443 ) (11 )% Total strategic and legacy services 4,908 5,286 (378 ) (7 )% Qwest-branded wireless services 112 460 (348 ) (76 )% Total revenue 5,020 5,746 (726 ) (13 )% Expenses: Customer service 372 461 (89 ) (19 )% Facilities 181 434 (253 ) (58 )% Segment overhead 69 79 (10 ) (13 )% Network, engineering and other operating 1,050 1,132 (82 ) (7 )% Customer acquisition and provisioning 743 929 (186 ) (20 )% Total expenses 2,415 3,035 (620 ) (20 )% Income $ 2,605 $ 2,711 $ (106 ) (4 )% Margin percentage 52 % 47 % 5 % 54 Table of Contents The following table summarizes some of the key operational measures for our mass markets segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 2008 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Broadband subscribers (1) 2,812 2,652 160 6 % Video subscribers (1) 940 814 126 15 % Wireless subscribers (1) 838 658 180 27 % Access lines (1) 6,865 7,807 (942 ) (12 )% (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. Revenue Strategic services revenue represented 28% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 23% for the year ended December 31, 2008, and continued to grow, but at a slower rate as compared to 2008. Strategic services revenue increased primarily due to an increase in broadband subscribers, partially offset by rate discounts. The increase in strategic services revenue was also a result of an increase in Verizon Wireless services revenue as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services from selling Qwest-branded wireless services. These increases were partially offset by a slight decrease in overall video services revenue as a result of our transition to selling satellite digital television from traditional cable-based digital television. The increase in satellite digital television subscribers was more than offset by the decrease in cable-based digital television subscribers. Legacy services revenue decreased primarily due to declines in local services and long-distance volumes and rates. These declines were driven by access line losses resulting from competitive pressures and product substitution. Qwest-branded wireless services revenue decreased as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services, the revenue from which we record in strategic services on a net basis. Expenses Customer service expenses decreased due to lower bad debt expense resulting from our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services and our reduction in revenue. Facilities expenses decreased as we stopped selling Qwest-branded wireless services in October 2009 and completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. Network, engineering and other operating expenses decreased due to employee reductions in our network operations as we continued to adjust our workforce to reflect our workload. Customer acquisition and provisioning expenses decreased as sales volumes declined as we have tried to make our sales process more efficient through sales headcount reductions as well as reduced marketing expenses and professional fees. Income Expense reductions due to a reduced workforce, network cost efficiencies and our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services improved our margin percentage by approximately five percentage points to 52% for 55 Table of Contents the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to 47% for the year ended December 31, 2008. We continue to experience income pressure as a result of access line losses, driven by intense competition and product substitution. Wholesale Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our wholesale markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,235 $ 1,251 $ (16 ) (1 )% Legacy services 1,678 2,092 (414 ) (20 )% Total revenue 2,913 3,343 (430 ) (13 )% Expenses: Customer service 88 113 (25 ) (22 )% Facilities 643 947 (304 ) (32 )% Segment overhead 48 49 (1 ) (2 )% Network, engineering and other operating 227 274 (47 ) (17 )% Customer acquisition and provisioning 94 104 (10 ) (10 )% Total expenses 1,100 1,487 (387 ) (26 )% Income $ 1,813 $ 1,856 $ (43 ) (2 )% Margin percentage 62 % 56 % 6 % The following table summarizes the access lines for our wholesale markets segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 2008 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Access lines (1) 1,057 1,174 (117 ) (10 )% (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines. For additional information see Business Overview and Presentation above. Revenue Our revenue was negatively impacted by industry consolidation, price compression, and our customers optimization of their cost structures. Strategic services revenue was 42% and 37% of our total wholesale markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Strategic services revenue declined slightly due to decreased rates for our private line service, partially offset by increased volumes. Legacy services revenue declined due to decreases in long-distance services revenue primarily driven by our focus on improving the profitability of this service and industry consolidation. In addition, access and local services revenue declined due to access line losses and a declining demand for UNEs for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. Traditional WAN services also declined due to industry consolidation and customer migration to more advanced technology services. 56 Table of Contents Expenses Customer service expenses decreased primarily due to: lower bad debt expense as a result of dispute settlements and corresponding allowance reductions; lower external commission expenses in operator services due to decreased volumes; lower access expense due to volume declines and increased productivity attributable to reduced headcount and elimination of an outsourcing contract. Facilities expenses decreased due to a decline in our long-distance services volumes and rates, as a result of declining demand for traditional voice services and the effects of industry consolidation. Fixed facilities expenses decrease is driven by network optimization efforts to drive down costs. Network, engineering and other operating expenses decreased as a result of employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to adjust our workforce to reflect our workload and lower repair expenses as we experienced a lower volume of repairs. Customer acquisition and provisioning expenses decreased as we saw a decrease in installation and maintenance volume for network provisioning, while increasing productivity through declines in sales headcount throughout the year. Income Our margin percentage increased approximately six percentage points and we held our income to a 2% reduction for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 due to profitability improvements primarily relating to our long-distance services. We continue to experience income pressure as a result of decreased access and local services and the impact of customer network optimization in strategic services. Liquidity and Capital Resources Near-Term View We expect that our cash on hand and expected net cash generated by operating activities will exceed our cash needs over the next 12 months. At December 31, 2010, we held cash and cash equivalents of $372 million and had $1.035 billion available under our currently undrawn revolving credit facility (referred to as our Credit Facility). During the year ended December 31, 2010, we: redeemed or repurchased $3.379 billion of long-term borrowings including current maturities and settled our embedded option in convertible debt for $640 million; and issued $800 million of debt for net proceeds of $775 million. You can find additional information on these financing activities in Note 8Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our net cash generated by operating activities totaled $3.367 billion. For the coming 12 months, our expected financing and investing cash needs include: $1.004 billion of maturing debt; capital expenditures of approximately $1.6 billion; and quarterly dividends on our common stock of approximately $140 million per quarter. We have significant discretion in how we use our cash to pay for capital expenditures and for other costs of our business, as only a minority of our capital expenditures is dedicated to preservation activities or government mandates. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. If we are 57 Table of Contents not successful in maintaining or increasing our net cash generated by operating activities in the near term, we may use this discretion to decrease our capital expenditures, which may impact future years operating results and cash flows. Also, we lease certain facilities and equipment under various capital lease arrangements when the leasing arrangements are more favorable to us than purchasing the assets. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we entered into capital leases for approximately $202 million of assets, which allowed us to reduce our initial cash outlays. We may continue to use lease financing for some portion of our capital spending. At December 31, 2010, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $1.649 billion compared to $483 million as of December 31, 2009. Our working capital deficit increased $1.166 billion primarily due to early retirements of long-term borrowings, the reclassification of non-current borrowings to current, capital expenditures and dividends declared on our common stock, partially offset by net income before depreciation, amortization and income taxes and net proceeds from our long-term debt issuances. We continue to look for opportunities to improve our capital structure by reducing debt and interest expense. Any time we deem conditions favorable, we may attempt to improve our liquidity position by accessing debt or other markets in a manner designed to create positive economic value. Although we were able to access the credit markets in April 2009, September 2009 and January 2010, the unstable economy may impair our ability to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited or at terms that are acceptable to us. As of December 31, 2010, we had $193 million in stock repurchases remaining under the $2 billion stock repurchase program that our Board of Directors authorized in October 2006. The repurchases were originally scheduled to be completed in 2008; however, our Board of Directors extended the timeframe to complete these repurchases for an undetermined period. We did not repurchase any stock under this program in 2010 or 2009, and our merger agreement with CenturyLink prohibits us from repurchasing additional shares under this program without CenturyLinks consent. We have yet to accrue or pay for certain cash outlays that are contingent on completion of the CenturyLink merger. These cash outlays include financial advisory fees and compensation costs comprised of retention bonuses and severance. These contingent cash outlays will be recognized in our consolidated financial statements commencing in the period in which the merger occurs. The final amount and timing of the compensation costs to be paid is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that will be made as part of the integration planning. The total amount of cash outlays that are contingent on the completion of the merger may be material. The Credit Facility, which is described below under the heading Long-Term View, will be terminated at the time of the closing of our merger with CenturyLink. Upon the closing of the merger, we will become a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink, and as such we anticipate that CenturyLink would meet any post-merger liquidity needs not met through our operating cash flow. Long-Term View We believe that the cash provided by our operations and our currently undrawn Credit Facility, combined with our current cash position and the likelihood that we will continue to have access to capital markets to refinance our debt as it matures, should allow us to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. Our general expectation is to refinance the debt maturities of our QC subsidiary and not to refinance other debt maturities. Debt We have a significant amount of debt maturing in the next several years, including $1.004 billion maturing in 2011, $1.500 billion maturing in 2012, $750 million maturing in 2013 and $1.900 billion maturing in 2014. We believe that we will continue to have access to capital markets to refinance our debt as discussed above in the Near-Term View. 58 Table of Contents The Credit Facility, which makes available to us $1.035 billion of additional credit subject to certain restrictions as described below, is currently undrawn and expires in September 2013. The Credit Facility has 13 lenders, with commitments ranging from $25 million to $100 million. Our merger agreement with CenturyLink allows us to draw on the facility with the intent to repay the borrowings within 90 days. This facility has a cross payment default provision, and this facility and certain other debt issues also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. These provisions generally provide that a cross default under these debt instruments could occur if: we fail to pay any indebtedness when due in an aggregate principal amount greater than $100 million; any indebtedness is accelerated in an aggregate principal amount greater than $100 million; or judicial proceedings are commenced to foreclose on any of our assets that secure indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount greater than $100 million. Upon a cross default, the creditors of a material amount of our debt may elect to declare that a default has occurred under their debt instruments and to accelerate the principal amounts due to those creditors. Cross acceleration provisions are similar to cross default provisions, but permit a default in a second debt instrument to be declared only if, in addition to a default occurring under the first debt instrument, the indebtedness due under the first debt instrument is actually accelerated. The Credit Facility also contains various limitations, including a restriction on using any proceeds from the facility to pay settlements or judgments relating to the legal matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. In addition, to the extent that our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA (as defined in our debt covenants), is reduced by cash settlements or judgments relating to the matters discussed in that note, our debt to consolidated EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements will be adversely affected. This could reduce our liquidity and flexibility due to potential restrictions on drawing on our Credit Facility and potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets), but would need to do so in a manner consistent with the terms of our merger agreement with CenturyLink, if: revenue and cash provided by operations significantly decline; unstable economic conditions continue to persist; competitive pressures increase; we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan; or we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. Pension Plan Benefits paid by our pension plan are paid through a trust. This pension plan is measured annually at December 31. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $585 million at December 31, 2010. Cash funding requirements can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, the discount rate, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. As a result, it is difficult to determine future funding requirements with a high level of precision; however, in general, current funding laws require a company to fund the annual cost of benefits earned in addition to a seven-year amortization of the shortfall. Based on current funding laws and regulations, we will not be required to make a cash contribution in 2011. During 2012 we expect to begin making required contributions to the plan and we estimate that these 2012 contributions could be between $300 million and $350 million. Although potentially significant in the aggregate, we currently expect that contributions in 59 Table of Contents 2013 and beyond will decrease annually from the 2012 expected contribution amount. However, the actual amount of required contributions in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. See additional information about our pension benefits in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Post-Retirement Benefits Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. As of December 31, 2010, the unfunded status of all of our post-retirement benefit plans was $2.522 billion. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of retirees who are former occupational (also referred to as union) employees. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of the trust assets was $801 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We did not make any cash contributions to this trust in 2010 and do not expect to make any significant cash contributions to this trust in the future. We believe that, as of December 31, 2010, the more liquid assets in the trust would be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for our occupational post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Thereafter, covered benefits for our eligible retirees who are former occupational employees will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This five year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimate of the annual long-term rate of return on the plan assets is 7.5% based on the currently held assets; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. See additional information about our post-retirement benefits in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Income Tax Payments We currently make some payments for income taxes; however, in most jurisdictions where we are subject to income tax, those taxes are largely offset through the utilization of our significant net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs. As of December 31, 2010, we had NOLs of $5.6 billion and we expect to fully use substantially all of these NOLs as an offset against future taxable income. We do not expect to pay a significant amount of income taxes until all of these NOLs have been used; however, the timing of that use will depend upon future earnings and upon our future tax circumstances. We currently expect to be able to use the NOLs to reduce tax payments for several years. Once our NOLs are fully utilized, we expect to make income tax payments commensurate with our taxable income. The amounts of those payments will also depend upon future earnings and upon our future tax circumstances and cannot be accurately estimated at this time. Historical View The following table summarizes cash flow activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 2010 v 2009 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Cash flows: Provided by operating activities $ 3,367 $ 3,307 $ 2,931 $ 60 $ 376 2 % 13 % Used for investing activities 1,488 1,406 1,693 82 (287 ) 6 % (17 )% Used for financing activities 3,913 60 1,575 3,853 (1,515 ) nm (96 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. 60 Table of Contents Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2010 as compared to 2009 despite a decline in cash received from customers as a result of decreased revenue. This increase was due primarily to lower payments for: facilities expenses as a result of both lower rates and lower volumes for long-distance service, the migration of our wireless customers from our Qwest-branded wireless services as well as cost optimization; employee-related expenses resulting from reduced headcount and one less pay period being paid in the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009; and professional fees due to lower contracted labor and programming services, partially offset by payments for merger-related costs. Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2009 as compared to 2008 as the decline in cash received from customers as a result of the decline in customers was more than offset by a decrease in payments for securities-related legal matters; a decrease in payments for facility costs resulting from the transition to Verizon Wireless services from selling Qwest-branded wireless services, declining minutes of use, network optimization and reduced rates; and lower payments for employee-related costs due to lower headcount. Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities increased in 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to increased capital expenditures and purchases of U.S. Treasury and U.S. government agency securities which were offset by the maturity of these securities. The increase in capital spending was due to a cautious investment climate in late 2008 and early 2009, increased spending on our strategic initiatives and timing of cash payments. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband. In 2011, we anticipate that our fiber investment, which includes fiber to the cell site, or FTTCS, will increase. This upward trend in spending for our strategic initiatives is the largest contributor to our projected capital expenditures for 2011 increasing to approximately $1.6 billion. In addition, we may continue to use lease financing in 2011 for some portion of our capital spending. Cash used for investing activities decreased in 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to lower capital expenditures. Lower capital spending was the result of initiatives related to decreasing per unit capital costs, a slowdown in new housing construction, which was down 40% as compared to 2008, and other lower customer-driven capital requirements. We also took advantage of favorable interest rates and increased our capital leasing activity, which further reduced our cash payments for capital equipment. Financing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2010, we repaid $3.379 billion of long-term borrowings including current maturities, settled the embedded option in our convertible debt for $640 million, paid $555 million in dividends and purchased treasury stock valued at $136 million in conjunction with the accelerated vesting of certain stock-based awards. These uses of cash were partially offset by the issuance of $800 million of new debt resulting in aggregate net proceeds of $775 million. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we issued $1.361 billion of new debt resulting in aggregate net proceeds of $1.270 billion, repaid $827 million of long-term borrowings including current maturities and paid $551 million in dividends. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we repaid $631 million of long-term borrowings including current maturities, paid $556 million in dividends and purchased $432 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. 61 Table of Contents We were in compliance with all provisions and covenants of our borrowings as of December 31, 2010. Letters of Credit We maintain letter of credit arrangements with various financial institutions for up to $85 million. We had outstanding letters of credit of approximately $72 million as of December 31, 2010. On January 18, 2011 we entered into $7 million of additional letters of credit. Credit Ratings Due to our general expectation that we will refinance the debt maturities of our QC subsidiary, our credit ratings can have significant impact on our liquidity and capital resources. Debt ratings by the various rating agencies reflect each agencys opinion of the ability of the issuers to repay debt obligations as they come due. In general, lower ratings result in higher borrowing costs and impaired ability to borrow under acceptable terms. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. The table below summarizes our long-term debt ratings as of December 31, 2010: December 31, 2010 Moodys S&P Fitch Corporate rating/Sr. Implied rating Ba1 BB NR Qwest Corporation Baa3 BBB- BBB- Qwest Capital Funding, Inc. Ba3 B+ BB Qwest Communications International Inc. Ba2 B+ BB+ NRNot Rated Since our announcement of our pending merger with CenturyLink: on August 13, 2010, Moodys Investors Service upgraded the ratings of QC from Ba1 to Baa3 (investment grade), QCF from B1 to Ba3 and QCII from Ba3 to Ba2, upgraded Qwests corporate rating from Ba2 to Ba1 and noted that these ratings remain on review for further upgrade; Standard & Poors placed Qwests corporate rating and the ratings of QCII and QCF on CreditWatch with positive implications, meaning that S&P could affirm or upgrade the ratings after it completes its review, and placed QCs rating on CreditWatch with developing implications, meaning that S&P could raise, maintain or lower the rating; and Fitch Ratings affirmed its previous rating of BBB- with a stable outlook for QC and placed the ratings of QCII and QCF on Rating Watch Positive, meaning that there is a heightened probability of a potential upgrade. With respect to Moodys, a rating of Baa indicates that the security is subject to moderate credit risk, is considered medium grade and as such may possess certain speculative characteristics. A rating of Ba is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk, meaning that the future of the issuer cannot be considered to be well-assured. Often the protection of interest and principal payments may be very moderate, and thereby not well safeguarded during both good and bad times. A rating of B is considered speculative and is subject to high credit risk. The 1, 2, 3 modifiers show relative standing within the major categories, 1 being the highest, or best, modifier in terms of credit quality. With respect to S&P, any rating below BBB indicates that the security is speculative in nature. A rating of BBB indicates that there are currently expectations of adequate protection. A rating of BB indicates that the 62 Table of Contents issuer currently has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation; however, it faces major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions, which could lead to the obligors inadequate capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. An obligation rated B is more vulnerable to nonpayment than obligations rated BB, but the obligor currently has capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. Adverse business, financial, or economic conditions will likely impair the obligors capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. The plus and minus symbols show relative standing within the major categories. With respect to Fitch, any rating below BBB indicates that the security is speculative in nature. A rating of BBB indicates that there are currently expectations of low credit risk. The capacity for payment of financial commitments is considered adequate but adverse changes in circumstances and economic conditions are more likely to impair this capacity. This is the lowest investment grade category. A rating of BB indicates that there is a possibility of credit risk developing, particularly as the result of adverse economic change over time; however, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow financial commitments to be met. The plus and minus symbols show relative standing within major categories. While we have been able to obtain financing historically and our ratings have improved since the pending merger with CenturyLink was announced, given our current credit ratings our ability to raise additional capital under acceptable terms and conditions may be impaired. Risk Management We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in interest rates. The objective of our interest rate risk management program is to manage the level and volatility of our interest expense. We have used derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk exposure on our debt and we may employ them in the future. Near-Term Maturities As of December 31, 2010, we had $1.004 billion of long-term notes maturing in the subsequent 12 months. We would be exposed to changes in interest rates at any time that we choose to refinance any of this debt. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the interest rate on a refinancing of the entire current portion of long-term notes would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $10 million. Floating-Rate Debt As of December 31, 2010, we had $750 million of floating interest rate debt outstanding, all of which was exposed to changes in interest rates. The exposure for these instruments is linked to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in LIBOR relative to this debt would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $8 million. Investments As of December 31, 2010, we had $335 million invested in highly liquid cash-equivalent instruments and $92 million invested in currently non-liquid auction rate securities. As interest rates change, so will the interest income derived from these instruments. Assuming that these investment balances were to remain constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $3 million. Combined Impacts The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of certain expense and income items, as well as net income, assuming 100-basis-point upward and downward shifts in market interest rates over the entire year. This 63 Table of Contents sensitivity analysis reflects only the impact for the year ended December 31, 2010 from the borrowings and investments that were outstanding as of December 31, 2010. It does not reflect the impact of long-term notes maturing in the subsequent 12 months because they would not have been affected by changes in market interest rates during the periods presented. As reported Assuming +100 basis point shift Assuming -100 basis point shift (Dollars in millions) 2010: Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet $ 1,039 $ 1,047 $ 1,031 Other incomenet (8 ) (12 ) (4 ) Net loss (55 ) (57 ) (53 ) Future Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our estimated future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010: Payments Due by Period 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and Thereafter Total (Dollars in millions) Future contractual obligations (1) : Debt and lease payments: Long-term debt $ 1,004 $ 1,500 $ 750 $ 1,900 $ 950 $ 5,674 $ 11,778 Capital lease and other obligations 96 89 74 59 34 16 368 Interest on long-term borrowings and capital leases (2) 885 742 655 589 476 3,921 7,268 Operating leases 208 177 152 134 110 671 1,452 Total debt and lease payments 2,193 2,508 1,631 2,682 1,570 10,282 20,866 Other long-term liabilities 6 3 6 3 4 160 182 Purchase commitments: Telecommunications and information technology 2 2 2 1 1 1 9 IRU* operating and maintenance obligations 19 19 19 19 19 121 216 Advertising, promotion and other services (3) 64 41 31 27 24 44 231 Total purchase commitments 85 62 52 47 44 166 456 Non-qualified pension obligation 4 3 3 3 3 29 45 Post-retirement benefit obligation 74 74 74 73 71 1,322 1,688 Total future contractual obligations $ 2,362 $ 2,650 $ 1,766 $ 2,808 $ 1,692 $ 11,959 $ 23,237 * Indefeasible rights of use (1) The table does not include: costs that are contingent upon completion of the pending CenturyLink merger; our open purchase orders as of December 31, 2010. These purchase orders are generally at fair value, are generally cancelable without penalty and are part of normal operations; 64 Table of Contents other long-term liabilities, such as accruals for legal matters and income taxes, that are not contractual obligations by nature. We cannot determine with any degree of reliability the years in which these liabilities might ultimately settle; cash funding requirements for pension benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $585 million at December 31, 2010. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust. Cash funding requirements for this trust are not included in this table as we are not able to reliably estimate required contributions to the trust. Cash funding requirements can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, the discount rate, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. As a result it is difficult to determine future funding requirements with a high level of precision; however, in general, current funding laws require a company with a plan shortfall to fund the annual cost of benefits earned in addition to a seven-year amortization of the shortfall. Based on current funding laws and regulations, we will not be required to make a cash contribution in 2011. During 2012 we expect to begin making required contributions to the plan and we estimate that these 2012 contributions could be between $300 million and $350 million. Although potentially significant in the aggregate, we currently expect that contributions in 2013 and beyond will decrease annually from the 2012 expected contribution amount. However, the actual amount of required contributions in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations; certain post-retirement benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Although we had a $2.522 billion liability recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 representing the net benefit obligation for all post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits, not all of this amount is a contractual obligation and only the portion that we believe is a contractual obligation is reported in the table. Certain of these plans are unfunded and net payments made by us totaled $135 million in 2010, including payments for benefits that are not contractual obligations. Total undiscounted future payments estimated to be made by us for benefits that are both contractual obligations and non-contractual obligations are approximately $4.8 billion over approximately 80 years. However, this estimate is impacted by various actuarial and market assumptions, and ultimate payments will differ from this estimate. In 1989, a trust was created and funded to help cover the health care costs of retirees who are former occupational employees. We did not make any cash contributions to this trust in 2010 and do not expect to make any significant cash contributions to this trust in the future. We anticipate that the majority of the costs that have historically been paid out of this trust will need to be paid by us at some point in the future. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of the trust assets was $801 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. In 2009 we estimated that the trust would be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for our occupational post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Based on returns on trust assets during 2010, we still believe that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for our occupational post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Thereafter, covered benefits for our eligible retirees who are former occupational employees will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This five year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimate of the annual long-term rate of return on the plan assets is 7.5% based on the currently held assets; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. The benefits reimbursed from plan assets were $186 million in 2010. See additional information on our benefits plans in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report; contract termination fees. These fees are non-recurring payments, the timing and payment of which, if any, is uncertain. In the ordinary course of business and to optimize our cost structure, we enter into contracts with terms greater than one year to use the network facilities of other carriers and to purchase other goods and services. Our contracts to use other carriers network facilities generally have no minimum volume requirements and are based on an interrelationship of volumes and discounted rates. 65 Table of Contents Assuming we exited these contracts in 2011, the contract termination fees would be approximately $697 million. Under the same assumption, termination fees for these contracts to purchase goods and services would be $31 million. In the normal course of business, we believe the payment of these fees is remote; and potential indemnification obligations to counterparties in certain agreements entered into in the normal course of business. The nature and terms of these arrangements vary. Historically, we have not incurred significant costs related to performance under these types of arrangements. (2) Interest paid in all years may differ due to future refinancing of debt. Interest on our floating rate debt was calculated for all years using the rates effective as of December 31, 2010. (3) We have various long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments for advertising and promotion services, including advertising and marketing at sports arenas and other venues and events. We also have service related commitments with various vendors for data processing, technical and software support services. Future payments under certain service contracts will vary depending on our actual usage. In the table above we estimated payments for these service contracts based on the level of services we expect to receive. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support, and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, research and development services, or other relationships that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements or in the Future Contractual Obligations table above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified certain policies and estimates as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our past or present results of operations. For additional information on the application of these and other significant accounting policies, see Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. These policies and estimates are considered critical because they had a material impact, or they have the potential to have a material impact, on our consolidated financial statements and because they require significant judgments, assumptions or estimates. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made when accounting for the items described below are reasonable, based on information available at the time they are made. However, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Loss Contingencies and Litigation Reserves We are involved in several material legal proceedings, as described in more detail in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. We assess potential losses in relation to these and other pending or threatened tax and legal matters. For matters not related to income taxes, if a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we recognize an expense for the estimated loss. To the extent these estimates are more or less than the actual liability resulting from the resolution of these matters, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. If the differences are material, our consolidated financial statements could be materially impacted. If a loss is considered reasonably possible, we disclose the item and any determinable estimate of the loss if material but we do not recognize any expense for the potential loss. For matters related to income taxes, if the impact of an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority, then we recognize a benefit for the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained. No portion of an uncertain tax position will be recognized if the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Though the validity of any tax position is a matter of tax law, the 66 Table of Contents body of statutory, regulatory and interpretive guidance on the application of the law is complex and often ambiguous. Because of this, whether a tax position will ultimately be sustained may be uncertain. The overall tax liability recorded for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 considers the anticipated utilization of any applicable tax credits and NOLs. To the extent we have recorded tax liabilities that are more or less than the actual liability that ultimately results from the resolution of an uncertain tax position, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. Also, as we become aware of new interpretations of relevant tax laws and as we discuss our interpretations with taxing authorities, we may in the future change our assessments of the sustainability of an uncertain tax position or of the amounts that may be sustained upon audit. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made in accounting for these matters are reasonable, based on information currently available. However, as our assessments change and as uncertain tax positions are resolved, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. Deferred Taxes Our provision for income taxes includes amounts for tax consequences deferred to future periods. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflecting future tax consequences attributable to tax NOLs, tax credit carryforwards and differences between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and the tax bases of those assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are computed using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred taxes often involves an exercise of judgment related to the computation and realization of tax basis. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our assessment that tax positions taken, and the resulting tax basis, are more likely than not to be sustained if they are audited by taxing authorities. Also, assessing tax rates that we expect to apply and determining the years when the temporary differences are expected to affect taxable income requires judgment about the future apportionment of our income among the states in which we operate. These matters, and others, involve the exercise of significant judgment. Any changes in our practices or judgments involved in the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Tax Valuation Allowance We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities as described above. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred income tax assets to amounts that we believe are more likely than not to be recovered. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine whether adjustments to our valuation allowance are appropriate. In making this evaluation, we rely on our recent history of pre-tax earnings, estimated timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets, and our forecasts of future earnings, the latter two of which involve the exercise of significant judgment. As of December 31, 2010, we concluded that it was more likely than not that we would realize the majority of our deferred tax assets; therefore, our valuation allowance did not require material adjustments. If forecasts of future earnings and the nature and estimated timing of future deductions and benefits change in the future, we may determine that a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets is appropriate, which could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits We sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan (referred to as our pension plan) for substantially all management and occupational employees. In addition to this tax qualified pension plan, we also maintain a non-qualified pension plan for certain eligible highly compensated employees. We maintain post-retirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain eligible retirees. 67 Table of Contents Pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits attributed to eligible employees service during the year, as well as interest on benefit obligations, are accrued currently. Prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses are generally recognized as a component of net periodic expense over one of the following periods: (i) the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately nine years; (ii) the average remaining life of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately 18 years; or (iii) the term of the collective bargaining agreements, as applicable. Pension and post-retirement benefit expenses are recognized over the period in which the employee renders service and becomes eligible to receive benefits as determined using the projected unit credit method. In computing the pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits expenses and obligations, the most significant assumptions we make include discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, health care trend rates and our evaluation of the legal basis for plan amendments. The plan benefits covered by collective bargaining agreements as negotiated with our employees unions can also significantly impact the amount of expense, benefit obligations and pension assets that we record. The discount rate is the rate at which we believe we could effectively settle the benefit obligations as of the end of the year. We set our discount rates each year based upon the yields of high-quality fixed-income investments available at December 31 based on our future expected cash flows of the pension and post-retirement benefit plans. In making the determination of discount rates, we used the average yields of various bond matching sources and the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return we expect to earn on the plans assets. The rate of return is determined by the strategic allocation of plan assets and the long-term risk and return forecast for each asset class. The forecasts for each asset class are generated primarily from an analysis of the long-term expectations of various third party investment management organizations. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. To compute the expected return on pension and post-retirement benefit plan assets, we apply an expected rate of return to the market-related value of the pension plan assets and to the fair value of the post-retirement benefit plan assets adjusted for projected benefit payments to be made from the plan assets. With respect to equity assets held by our pension plan, we have elected to recognize actual returns on these equity assets ratably over a five year period when computing our market-related value; the unrecognized portion of actual returns on these equity assets is included in accumulated other comprehensive income. This method has the effect of reducing the impact on expenses of market volatility that may be experienced from year to year. With respect to bonds and other assets held by our pension plan and with respect to the assets held by our post-retirement benefit plans, we did not elect to recognize actual returns on these assets using this five-year ratable method. Therefore, the full impact of annual market volatility for these assets is reflected in the subsequent years net periodic combined benefits expense. Changes in any of the above factors could impact general, administrative and other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations as well as the value of the liability and accumulated other comprehensive income of stockholders deficit on our consolidated balance sheets. If our assumed expected rates of return for 2010 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $77 million. If our assumed discount rates for 2010 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $56 million and our projected benefit obligation would have increased by approximately $1 billion. An increase of 100 basis points in the initial healthcare cost trend rate would have increased our post-retirement benefit expense by $3 million and increased our projected post-retirement benefit obligation by $65 million. The trusts for the pension and post-retirement benefits plans hold investments in equities, fixed income, real estate and other assets such as private equity assets. The assets held by these trusts are reflected at estimated fair 68 Table of Contents value as of December 31. See additional information on our trust investments in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Revenue Recognition and Related Reserves We recognize revenue for services when the related services are provided. Recognition of certain payments received in advance of services being provided is deferred until the service is provided. These advance payments received, primarily activation fees and installation charges, as well as the associated customer acquisition costs, are deferred and recognized over the expected customer relationship period, which ranges from eighteen months to over ten years depending on the service. Customer arrangements that include both equipment and services are evaluated to determine whether the elements are separable based on objective evidence. If the elements are deemed separable and separate earnings processes exist, total consideration is allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of the separate elements and the revenue associated with each element is recognized as earned. If these criteria are not satisfied, the total advance payment is deferred and recognized ratably over the longer of the contractual period or the expected customer relationship period. We believe that the accounting estimates related to customer relationship periods and to the assessment of whether bundled elements are separable are critical accounting estimates because: (i) they require management to make assumptions about how long we will retain customers; (ii) the assessment of whether bundled elements are separable is subjective; (iii) the impact of changes in actual retention periods versus these estimates on the revenue amounts reported in our consolidated statements of operations could be material; and (iv) the assessment of whether bundled elements are separable may result in revenue being reported in different periods than significant portions of the related costs. As the telecommunications market experiences greater competition and customers shift from traditional land-based telecommunications services to wireless and Internet-based services, our estimated customer relationship period could decrease and we will accelerate the recognition of deferred revenue and related costs over a shorter estimated customer relationship period. Restructuring, Realignment and Severance Charges Periodically, we commit to exit certain business activities, eliminate administrative and network locations or reduce our number of employees. The amount we record as restructuring, realignment or severance charges for these changes depends upon various assumptions, including severance costs, sublease income and costs, disposal costs, length of time on market for abandoned rented facilities and contractual termination costs. These estimates are inherently judgmental and may change materially based upon actual experience. The estimate of future losses of sublease income and disposal activity generally involves the most significant judgment. Due to the estimates and judgments involved in the application of each of these accounting policies and changes in our plans, these estimates and market conditions could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Economic Lives of Assets to be Depreciated or Amortized We perform annual internal studies or reviews to determine depreciable lives for our property, plant and equipment. These studies utilize models that take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, assumptions about technology evolution, and, in certain instances, actuarially determined probabilities to calculate the remaining life of our asset base. Due to rapid changes in technology and the competitive environment, selecting the estimated economic life of telecommunications plant, equipment and software requires a significant amount of judgment. We regularly review data on utilization of equipment, asset retirements and salvage values to determine adjustments to our depreciation rates. The effect of a one year increase or decrease in the estimated remaining useful lives of our property, plant and equipment would have decreased depreciation by approximately $280 million or increased 69 Table of Contents depreciation by approximately $390 million, respectively. The effect of a one half year increase or decrease in the estimated remaining useful lives of our capitalized software would have decreased amortization by approximately $30 million or increased amortization by approximately $40 million, respectively. Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets We periodically perform evaluations of the recoverability of the carrying value of our long-lived assets using gross undiscounted cash flow projections. These evaluations require identification of the lowest level of identifiable, largely independent, cash flows for purposes of grouping assets and liabilities subject to review. The cash flow projections include long-term forecasts of revenue growth, gross margins and capital expenditures. All of these items require significant judgment and assumptions. We believe our estimates are reasonable, based on information available at the time they were made. However, if our estimates of our future cash flows had been different, we may have concluded that some of our long-lived assets were not recoverable, which would likely have caused us to record a material impairment charge. Also, if our future cash flows are significantly lower than our projections we may determine at some future date that some of our long-lived assets are not recoverable. Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2010, we did not have any derivative financial instruments. However, we sometimes use derivative financial instruments, specifically interest rate swap contracts, to manage interest rate risks. We execute these instruments with financial institutions we deem creditworthy and monitor our exposure to these counterparties. An interest rate hedge is generally designated as either a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge. In a cash flow hedge, a borrower of variable interest debt agrees with another party to make fixed payments equivalent to paying fixed rate interest on debt in exchange for receiving payments from the other party equivalent to receiving variable rate interest on debt, the effect of which is to eliminate some portion of the variability in the borrowers overall cash flows. In a fair value hedge, a borrower of fixed rate debt agrees with another party to make variable payments equivalent to paying variable rate interest on the debt in exchange for receiving fixed payments from the other party equivalent to receiving fixed rate interest on debt, the effect of which is to eliminate some portion of the variability in the fair value of the borrowers overall debt portfolio due to changes in interest rates. We recognize all derivatives on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. We generally designate the derivative as either a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge on the date on which we enter into the derivative instrument. Cash flows from derivative instruments that are cash flow hedges or fair value hedges are classified in cash flows from operations. For a derivative that is designated as and meets all of the required criteria for a cash flow hedge, we record in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheets any changes in the fair value of the derivative. We then reclassify these amounts into earnings as the underlying hedged item affects earnings. In addition, if there are any changes in the fair value of the derivative arising from ineffectiveness of the cash flow hedging relationship, we record those amounts immediately in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations. For a derivative that is designated as and meets all of the required criteria for a fair value hedge, we record in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations the changes in fair value of the derivative and the underlying hedged item. However, if the terms of this type of derivative match the terms of the underlying hedged item such that we qualify to assume no ineffectiveness, then the fair value of the derivative is measured and the change in the fair value for the period is assumed to equal the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged item for the period, with no impact in other expense (income)net. We assess quarterly whether each derivative is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item or whether our initial assumption of no ineffectiveness is still valid. If we determine that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge, a derivative has ceased to be a highly effective hedge or our 70 Table of Contents assumption of no ineffectiveness is no longer valid, then we discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively. We record immediately in earnings changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedges. For additional information on our derivative financial instruments, see Note 9Derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Investment Impairment Analysis As part of our cash management strategy, we have a variety of investments for which we are required to determine the fair value. Many of these investments are valued using published prices; other investments require judgment to determine the assumptions and factors that we should use to determine their fair value. For instance, there are reasonably possible alternative inputs for the factors we use to value our auction rate securities, primarily related to the probability that the securities will be redeemed early, the probability that a default will occur and the severity of that default. Using the least favorable inputs for these valuation factors that we believe are reasonably possible alternatives would result in an additional $14 million decrease in the fair market value estimate for the securities. We recognize changes in the fair value of certain investments in our consolidated statements of operations. However, changes in the fair value of other investments, specifically securities that are classified as available-for-sale, are treated differently. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognized in other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheets unless the change in value is considered to be an other-than-temporary impairment. If the issuers cease making required interest payments, we would recognize the portion of the other-than-temporary decline in fair value that is due to credit loss in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations. If we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before their values recover, we would recognize the entire other-than-temporary decline in fair value in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations. An available-for-sale investment is considered to be impaired if it loses value. When an available-for-sale investment is impaired, we are required to perform an analysis to determine whether the impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary. The determination of the type of impairment requires judgment. We evaluate the extent of the impairment, the credit rating of the securities and the issuer, whether the issuer continues to make the contractual cash payments, whether we believe the issuer will be able to continue to make the payments until the value recovers or the securities mature and our ability and intent to hold the investment until its value recovers or the securities mature. We may determine that the decline in fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary if our analysis of these factors indicates that we do not believe we will recover our investment in the securities. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, Number 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force. This ASU establishes a new selling price hierarchy to use when allocating the sales price of a multiple element arrangement between delivered and undelivered elements. This ASU is generally expected to result in revenue recognition for more delivered elements than under current rules. We are required to adopt this ASU prospectively for new or materially modified agreements as of January 1, 2011. The adoption of this ASU will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.