Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth under the Risk Factors, Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Business sections in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Company Overview Q Therapeutics, Inc. (hereinafter Q Therapeutics or Q) conducts its business and operations through its wholly owned subsidiary, Q Therapeutic Products, Inc. (hereinafter Q Products) and NeuroQ Research, Inc. Q Therapeutics is a Salt Lake City, Utah-based biopharmaceutical company that is developing human cell-based therapies intended to treat degenerative diseases of the brain and spinal cord, the primary components of the central nervous system. Q Therapeutic Products, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 2002. The technology upon which these therapies are based was developed by Qs co-founder Mahendra Rao, M.D., Ph.D., a global leader in glial cell biology, during Dr. Raos tenure as a Professor at the University of Utah and as Head of the Stem Cell Section at the National Institutes of Health. Q is managed by an experienced team of biotechnology executives with demonstrated start-up success and advised by leaders in the neurology and stem cell therapeutics fields. Every year, hundreds of thousands of people suffer with debilitating neurodegenerative diseases such as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrigs disease), Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Transverse Myelitis (TM) and Spinal Cord Injury (SCI). Traditional drugs tend to fail to treat the nerve damage caused by these diseases due to the multifactorial nature of these diseases and the inability of most drugs to address all of these factors. Q Therapeutics is developing a new and nontraditional approach targeted to improve the health of people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases: a human cell-based product called Q-Cells. Q-Cells are healthy human glial cells. The role of glial cells in the brain and spine is to support and protect neurons, as well as the axonal transmission lines of the central nervous system. Glial cells perform many functions including forming an insulating myelin sheath around neuronal axons, providing the necessary growth factors needed to maintain a healthy nervous system, and removing compounds that are toxic to neurons. Many neurodegenerative diseases arise when glial cells are damaged or destroyed, causing neurons to malfunction and eventually die. Q-Cells technology aims to treat neurodegenerative diseases by supplementing the damaged or missing glia in the central nervous system with new, healthy cells that can help maintain and/or restore neuron function to a more robust state. The diseases targeted by Q Therapeutics products are not well treated with current drug therapies. At best, patients suffering from these diseases can, in some cases, only hope to slow their inexorable progression and the associated disabilities. A handful of companies are exploring the possibility of harnessing the power of stem or progenitors cells to treat these conditions, although no clear leader has emerged. In addition to utilizing its proprietary cellular products as therapeutic products, Q may evaluate novel ways to utilize these cells to screen for new drugs (such as small molecule compounds) that could also provide treatments for neurological diseases. Q Therapeutics believes that a worldwide market measured in the tens of billions of dollars exists for those companies whose cell-based treatments become commercial products. Q Therapeutics patent protected technology represents an opportunity to build on the recent advancements in the stem cell field and bring to market a therapeutic approach that will change the way medicine is practiced in treating many disabling and fatal conditions of the central nervous system. 11 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012: For the period from March 28, 2002 (date of inception) through March 31, 2013, we have not generated significant revenues and have been focused on developing our products for commercial sale. Q Therapeutics is considered to be a development stage company. Since entering the development stage, we have not generated revenues in excess of expenses and have been dependent on government grants and debt and equity raised from individual investors to sustain our operations. Our products have not yet been approved by the FDA for commercial sale and as a result we have not yet generated revenues from therapeutic product sales. We have incurred losses and used cash in operating activities since inception. As of March 31, 2013, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $20,991,557 and negative working capital of $474,759. Revenues Historically, the Company has generated minimal revenues through (1) research grants from government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), (2) granting rights to the Companys technology to other entities, and (3) sales of its product for research purposes. Grant revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 were $5,501 and $0, respectively. The increase was primarily due to being the recipient of a sub-award of an NIH grant issued to The Johns Hopkins University. The sub-award was approved in December 2012 for a total of $631,383 for the 2012-2013 grant budget year. To date, approximately $483,000 has been billed to NIH. We anticipate grant revenues to increase as we identify new opportunities for grants that are available and specific to our research of cell-based therapies. Research and Development Expenses Q Therapeutics anticipates that development activities and costs will remain the same as we advance the work necessary to complete our future Investigational New Drug (IND) submission. This includes Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) animal safety studies, injection device studies, manufacturing activities and working with clinical and regulatory consultants. Should additional financing be obtained, we may also increase research and development activities to evaluate use of our proprietary products in other disease indications, including working with outside collaborators. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013, were $131,109, a decrease of $93,098, or 41.5%, from $224,207 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The decrease is primarily due to the one-time costs associated with the initiation of our pilot studies that occurred in 2012 that did not recur in 2013. We anticipate our research and development expenses will remain at similar levels to those of the first quarter of 2013 as we continue our safety studies, until additional financing can be obtained. General and Administrative Expenses The following table details the general and administrative expenses incurred by the Company: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Change % Salaries and benefits $ 166,946 $ 146,835 $ 20,111 13.7 % Legal and professional fees 119,186 147,971 (28,785 ) -19.5 % Facility and office related 52,125 47,330 4,795 10.1 % Stock-based compensation 25,438 29,308 (3,870 ) -13.2 % Travel and entertainment 10,557 13,845 (3,288 ) -23.7 % Depreciation 467 445 22 5.0 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 374,719 $ 385,734 $ (11,015 ) -2.9 % 12 Table of Contents The net decrease in general and administrative expenses is due to a reduction in legal and professional fees and associated travel and entertainment expenses resulting from the non-recurring costs of the private placement of the Companys securities and the evolution to a public reporting entity in 2012 that did not recur in 2013, a decrease in stock-based compensation and a reduction in annual fees and licenses; offset primarily by a non-qualified contribution to the Companys retirement plan. We anticipate general and administrative expenses to remain at approximately the same levels, or decrease as necessary, due to our cash constraints until further financing becomes available. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash used in operating activities totaled $120,304 compared to $549,108 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. Cash expenditures decreased in 2013 primarily due to the initiation costs related to our pilot study in 2012 that did not recur in 2013, payment of professional services with Company securities in lieu of cash, and deferral in payment of executive salaries. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash used in investing activities related to the purchase of equipment totaled $19,851 compared to $1,323 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by financing activities was $0 compared to $175,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The primary reason for the change was that the Company raised $190,000 from the private placement of its securities offset by the repayment of a $15,000 note payable in the first quarter of 2012, which did not recur in the first quarter of 2013. As of March 31, 2013, the Company had negative working capital of $474,759. Approximately $950,000 of the amount included in accounts payable is owed to a vendor and is not payable until the current project is completed, which is expected to be in the fourth quarter of 2013. Upon completion of the project, the Company will have the option to convert the balance owed to this vendor into equity and a five-year note payable. We believe that our current levels of cash, when combined with (1) our expected cash flows from grant revenues, and (2) reductions to our current operating expenses, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs through at least December 31, 2013. However, we will require additional cash resources during the first quarter of 2014 in order to continue the Companys current operations. We will need additional cash resources in the future if we pursue opportunities for investment, acquisition, strategic cooperation or other similar actions. To satisfy future cash requirements, we expect to seek funding through government grants, the issuance of debt or equity securities and the obtaining of a credit facility. Any future issuance of equity securities would cause dilution for our shareholders. Any incurrence of indebtedness will increase our debt service obligations and may cause us to be subject to restrictive operating and financial covenants. It is possible that we will be unsuccessful securing future government grants and financing may not be available to us in amounts or on terms that are favorable to the Company or not available at all. Recent Accounting Pronouncements As of the date of this report, there are no accounting pronouncements that had not yet been adopted by the Company that we believe would have a material impact on our financial statements. Additionally, the Company has reviewed recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and does not believe the future adoption of any such pronouncements will have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as special purpose entities. 13 Table of Contents Significant Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the requirements and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of sales and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant accounting policies and areas where substantial judgments are made by management include: Stock-Based Compensation We calculate the estimated fair value of our stock options and warrants on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognize the estimated fair value as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. We recognize stock compensation expense in the period in which the employee is required to provide service, which is generally over the vesting period of the individual equity instruments. Stock options issued in lieu of cash to non-employees for services performed are recorded at the fair value of the options at the time they are issued and are expensed as service is provided. The volatility assumption used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model is based on the volatility of publicly traded companies in our industry. The expected term of the options and warrants granted represent the periods of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk free rate for periods within the contractual lives of the options and warrants is based on the U.S. treasury securities constant maturity rate that corresponds to the expected term in effect at the time of grant. Revenue Recognition and Grants Receivable We apply for research grants generally as a sub-recipient to grants funded by government agencies through research institutions. Grants receivable are recorded in accordance with the provisions defined in the sub-award or grant agreement. Grants receivable are considered past due when payment has not been received within 30 days of the invoice date, although certain institutions customarily pay within 60 days of the invoice date. The amounts of the specific reserves are estimated by management based on various assumptions including the age of the individual grant receivable, as well as changes in payment schedules and histories. Grants receivable balances are charged off against the allowance for doubtful accounts when management determines the potential for recovery is remote. Recoveries of receivables previously charged off are recorded when payment is received. We did not incur any losses relating to bad debts during the last two years. Income Taxes We calculate federal and state taxes using the asset and liability method. Under the asset and liability method, deferred income tax assets or liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets or liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in net income (loss) in the period that includes the enactment date. Net Loss Per Common Share Basic earnings (loss) per common share (EPS) is calculated by dividing income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is similar to Basic EPS except that the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding is increased using the treasury stock method to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued. Such potentially dilutive common shares include stock options and warrants. Shares having an antidilutive effect on periods presented are not included in the computation of Diluted EPS.