ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements relating to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, intends, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors including the risks set forth in the section entitled Risk Factors in our prospectus, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 28, 2022, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Report. You should read this Report with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they are made, except as required by federal securities and any other applicable law. The managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed unaudited financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the notes to the unaudited financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Report and the Companys audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with the SEC in its Annual Report on Form 10-K on March 31, 2023, along with the accompanying notes. As used in this Quarterly Report, the terms we, us, our and the Company means Qrons Inc. The Company has relied primarily on its two co-founders, Jonah Meer, Chief Executive Officer, and Ido Merfeld, President, who are its sole directors to manage its day-to-day business and has outsourced professional services to third parties in an effort to maintain lower operational costs. Messrs. Meer and Merfeld, as the holders of the Companys issued and outstanding shares of the Companys Class A Preferred Stock, collectively have 66 2/3% of the voting rights of the Company. Acting together, they will be able to influence the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our stockholders. Plan of Operations We are an innovative biotechnology company dedicated to developing biotech products, treatments and technologies that create a platform to combat neuronal diseases. The Companys approach is to marshal and leverage its proprietary research with developing breakthrough technologies by seeking to engage in strategic arrangements with companies and institutions that are developing breakthrough technologies in the fields of artificial intelligence, machine learning, molecular biology, stem cells and tissue engineering, for deployment in the fight against neuronal diseases, and such other indications that may make use of our technology. The Companys search is focused on researchers based in Israel, a country which is world-renowned for biotech innovations and where our researchers are based. 22 Table of Contents To date, the Company has collaborated with universities and scientists in the fields of regenerative medicine, tissue engineering and 3D printable hydrogels to develop a treatment that integrates proprietary, engineer mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), 3D printable implant, smart materials and a novel delivery system and has two product candidates for treating penetrating and non-penetrating (concussion-like) traumatic brain injuries, both integrating proprietary, anti-brain inflammation synthetic hydrogel and modified MSCs. In early 2022, the Company began collaborating with scientists at a leading University in Israel to conduct preliminary experiments to confirm that a combination of certain molecule compounds that they invented which contain immunomodulating properties when integrated with ingredients in our QS200 product candidate may substantially improve its solubility and allow very high dosage treatments which we believe offers treatment options to diffused axonal injuries. These molecules are being tested for certain indication in various Phase II trials conducted by others. We also believe that the improved dosage delivery may present a unique treatment option to patients who suffer from antibiotic resistant bacteria infection and Sepsis. We are looking to conduct such in vitro tests, which if successful we believe may provide an expedited pathway to human trials. As a result of the Company's multidiscipline research effort in the field of supramolecular and polymeric materials chemistry and neuronal tissue engineering, on April 3, 2022, the Company filed a US provisional patent application for inventions of therapeutic polypseudorotaxane hydrogels, and on March 12, 2023 filed an International Patent Application at the International Bureau , thereby providing the Company with the option to, in the future, seek protection for these inventions globally. The patent application relates generally to the treatment of pathological central nervous system conditions such as traumatic injury or neurodegenerative disease and the applications of uses of hydrogels in the treatment of such conditions, as well as manufacturing techniques for such compositions, On September 18, 2022 Ido Merfeld, our President and co-Founder was awarded his PhD in Molecular Biology and Neuroscience based on his submission of his paper entitled Mesenchymal Stem Cells integrated into Pseudopolyrotaxane hydrogels promote neuronal stem cells maturation and inhibits reactive Astrocytes and Activated Microglia after penetrating traumatic brain injury, based on the research done at Qrons. We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 Revenue We have not generated any revenue since our inception and do not expect to generate any revenue from the sale of products in the near future. Net Loss We had a net loss of $68,458 in the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to a net loss of $264,128 in the three months ended March 31, 2022, as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net sales $ - $ - Operating expenses: Research and development expenses 6,820 8,932 Professional fees 22,345 44,866 General and administrative expenses 7,777 9,758 Total operating expenses 36,942 63,556 Income (loss) from operations (36,942 ) (63,556 ) Other income (expense) Interest expense (17,477 ) (34,617 ) Change in derivative liabilities (14,039 ) (165,955 ) Total other income (expense) (31,516 ) (200,572 ) Net (loss) $ (68,458 ) $ (264,128 ) 23 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were $36,942 compared to total operating expenses of $63,556 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 is predominantly due to a decrease in professional fees from $44,866 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $22,345 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The Company incurred additional professional fees during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as a result of the costs associated with filing a registration statement and prospectus. The Company also recorded decreases in research and development expenses from $8,932 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $6,820 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, and a decrease in general and administrative expenses from $9,758 during the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $7,777 for the three months ended March 31, 20223. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company incurred $6,820 of research and development expenses which included technology licensing fees of $6,250 and lab supplies and expenses of $570, as compared to $8,932 in research and development fees for the three months ended March 31, 2022 which includes licensing fees of $6,250 and software license and equipment costs of $2,682. Other Income (Expense) Other expense in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $31,516, which included a loss of $14,039 as a result of the change in value of derivative liabilities, and interest expense of $17,477 which is comprised of accretion of convertible notes of $11,377 and accrued interest on convertible notes payable of $6,100. Other expense in the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $200,572, which included a loss of $165,955 as a result of the change in value of derivative liabilities, and interest expense of $34,617 which is comprised of accretion of convertible notes of $29,291 and accrued interest on convertible notes payable of $5,326. Operating Activities Net Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily the result of net loss, offset by non-cash items including accretion of debt discount of $11,377, a loss from the change in derivative liabilities of $14,039 and changes to operating assets and liabilities, including an increase to accounts payable of $17,856 and an increase to accounts payable-related parties of $11,605. Net cash used in operating activities was $29,411 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $28,189 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily the result of net loss, offset by non-cash items, accretion of debt discount of $29,291, an increase in derivative liabilities of $165,955, and changes to operating assets and liabilities, including an increase to prepaid expenses of $2,163, an increase to accounts payable of $41,054 and an increase to accounts payable-related parties of $580. Net Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was the result of net loss, offset by non-cash items including accretion of debt discount of $11,377, a loss from the change in fair market value of derivative liabilities of $14,039 and changes to operating assets and liabilities, including an increase to accounts payable of $17,856 and an increase to accounts payable-related parties of $11,605. Net cash used in operating activities was $29,411 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and was the result of net loss, offset by non-cash items including accretion of debt discount of $29,291, a loss from the change in fair market value of derivative liabilities of $165,955, and changes to operating assets and liabilities, including an increase to prepaid expenses of $2,163, an increase to accounts payable of $41,054 and an increase to accounts payable-related parties of $580. Investing Activities There were no investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023 there was $15,000 of cash provided from financing activities consisting of advances from related parties. There were no financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022. 24 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had cash of $4,488. We are in the early stage of development and have experienced net losses to date and have not generated revenue from operations which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There are a number of conditions that we must satisfy before we will be able to commercialize potential products and generate revenue, including successful development of product candidates, which includes clinical trials, FDA approval, demonstration of effectiveness sufficient to generate commercial orders by customers, establishing production capabilities as well as effective marketing and sales capabilities for our product. We do not currently have sufficient resources to accomplish any of these conditions necessary for us to generate revenue and expect to incur increasing operating expenses. We will require substantial additional funds for operations, the service of debt and to fund our business objectives. There can be no assurance that financing, whether debt or equity, will be available to us in the amount required at any particular time or for any particular period or, if available, that it can be obtained on terms favorable to us. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of equity securities, such as through the issuance and exercise of warrants, then existing stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of debt or other equity instruments, we may be subject to certain limitations in our operations, and issuance of such securities may have rights senior to those of the then existing stockholders. We currently have no agreements, arrangements or understandings with any person or entity to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit or any other sources. We continue exploring sources of debt and equity financings as well as available grants. We are currently exploring and are in discussions for a potential strategic alliance in the biotechnology field which could advance our MSCs and neurodegenerative research. as well as treat other indications. There can be no assurance that we will reach agreement on this alliance or that the necessary financing will be available to implement the research under the alliance. In such event, we may explore other relationships with other third parties to develop or commercialize products or technologies that we have not previously sought to develop or commercialize, decide to exit our existing business, cease operations altogether or pursue an acquisition of our company. However, without additional financing, we do not believe our resources will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs beyond the second quarter of 2023. Offering The Company filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC on January 11, 2022, to offer and sell up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock in a self-underwritten primary offering at a fixed price of $0.70 per share which was declared effective on January 11, 2022. To date, no shares have been sold and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in selling any of the shares being offered. Going Concern Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and, accordingly, do not include adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in operation. Our report from our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 includes an explanatory paragraph stating the Company has recurring losses and limited operations which raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate capital, the Company may be required to reduce the scope, delay, or eliminate some or all of its planned operations. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. 25 Table of Contents COVID-19 Pandemic and other factors While the World Health Organization has recently declared that the COVID-19 pandemic is no longer a public health emergency of international concern and the global economy is focused on recovery, the impact of COVID-19 could continue to have an adverse impact on the Company going forward. COVID-19 caused significant disruptions to the global financial markets, which may continue to impact the Companys ability to raise additional capital and ongoing research and development of our product candidates. Research facilities at Dartmouth were subject to closures as well as laboratories at Ariel in Israel during the pandemic. This resulted in our discontinuing our research at these Universities and was part of our decision to adjust our research to be collaborative and to seek aligning with third parties to advance our expanded goals. We do not currently know the full extent of potential delays of research in the future and the ultimate impact on us and our research relationships is currently uncertain. Additional factors which may impact the Companys ongoing operations include, but are not limited to, inflation, potential supply chain issues as a result of the aforementioned recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, the recent war in the Ukraine and climate change. These events may have serious adverse impact on domestic and foreign economies which may impact the Companys operations as a result of a variety of factors including the potential for difficulties obtaining additional capital. The Company is unable to predict the ongoing impact of these factors on the Companys financial operations. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to meet its obligations, raise funds or conclude the acquisition of identified businesses. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates The financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are more fully discussed in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed financial statements contained herein. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been uncertainty and disruption in the global economy and financial markets. The estimates used for, but not limited to, the fair value of financial instruments, stock based compensation and warrants could be impacted. We have assessed the impact and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that required an update to our estimates and assumptions or materially affected the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of issuance of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Estimates Stock Based Compensation and Other Share-Based Payments: The Company records stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, using the fair value method of the award on grant date. All transactions in which goods or services are the consideration received for the issuance of equity instruments are accounted for based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued. The expense attributable to the Companys directors is recognized over the period the amounts are earned and vested, and the expense attributable to the Companys non-employees is recognized when vested. Warrants: The Company accounts for common stock warrants in accordance with applicable accounting guidance provided in ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging, as either derivative liabilities or as equity instruments depending on the specific terms of the warrant agreement. For warrants classified as equity instruments the Company applies the Black Scholes model and expenses the fair value as financing costs. For warrants classified as derivative financial instruments the Company applies the Monte Carlo model to value the warrants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity. ASU 2020-06 changes how entities account for convertible instruments and contracts in an entitys own equity and simplifies the accounting for convertible instruments by removing certain separation models for convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 also modifies the guidance on diluted earnings per share calculations. The Company elected to adopt this guidance in the year ended December 31, 2022. There was no material effect on the Companys operations, financial position or cash flows as a result of the adoption. There were various accounting standards and interpretations issued recently, none of which are expected to have a material effect on the Companys operations, financial position or cash flows. 26 Table of Contents