Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Report regarding the prospects of our industry or our prospects, plans, financial position or business strategy, may constitute forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as may, will, expect, intend, estimate, foresee, project, anticipate, believe, plans, forecasts, continue or could or the negatives of these terms or variations of them or similar terms. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements may be included in various filings that we make with the SEC or press releases or oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our authorized executive officers. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that these expectations will prove to be correct. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in these forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained herein, which reflect managements opinions only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to any forward-looking statements. You are advised, however, to consult any additional disclosures we make in our reports to the SEC. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this Report. Plan of Operation and Going Concern Presentation The Company has not realized any revenues from operations since inception, and, as of August 31, 2011, its plan of operation has been to locate a suitable acquisition or merger candidate and consummate a business combination. Since our formation on October 27, 2005, and through August 31, 2011, our purpose has been to effect a business combination with an operating business which we believe has significant growth potential. As of August 31, 2011, we were considered to be a blank check or shell company in as much as, at that time, we had no business plans, no operations, revenues or employees. Subsequent to the period of this report, we have consummated a merger with another entity. Changes in Control of Registrant On July 7, 2008 (the Effective Date), pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement (the Agreement), Broad Street Ventures, LLC, a limited liability company formed in the State of Colorado (BSV) purchased a total of 96,000 shares of the issued and outstanding common stock of Grace 2, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), from Getting You There, LLC, the sole stockholder of the Company (GYT). The total of 96,000 shares represents 96% of the shares of outstanding common stock of the Company (the Acquisition). Also, as part of the Acquisition and pursuant to the Agreement, the following changes to the Company s directors and officers occurred: Douglas Dyer resigned as the Company s President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary and Sole Director effective July 18, 2008. As of July 18, 2008, Douglas Dyer was appointed as the Company s President and Sole Director. Merger Agreement On October 13, 2011, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Agreement) with Q Acquisition, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), and Q Therapeutics, Inc. (Q Therapeutics). Pursuant to the Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into Q Therapeutics with Q Therapeutics being the surviving corporation (the Merger). Upon the consummation of the Merger, the Company acquired 100% of Q Therapeutics. This transaction and information about Q Therapeutics, Inc. was reported to the public by way of a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on October 18, 2011. As a result of the Merger: Douglas Dyer, the sole director and officer of the Company, resigned. Q Therapeutics stockholders received, on a pro rata basis, an aggregate of 22,671,923 shares of Grace 2 common stock (including shares underlying warrants and options), which immediately upon the consummation of the Merger, represented an 89.7% interest in the Company , thereby rendering Q Therapeutics stockholders the majority owners of the Company; Grace 2 filed a Schedule 14C with the US Securities and Exchange Commission notifying the market of its immediate plans to change the Companys corporate name to Q Holdings, Inc. by way of Amendment to the Companys Certificate of Incorporation with the State of Delaware (Grace 2 thereafter referred to as Q Holdings); Q Therapeutics existing senior management assumed the same positions with Q Holdings; and Q Therapeutics became the wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with the Company conducting all of its operations through Q Therapeutics. Securities Purchase Agreements Immediately after the Merger, we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with certain accredited investors (the Investors) for the issuance and sale in a private placement of investment units (the Units), with each Unit consisting of (a) one share of the Companys common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, (b) a seven-year detachable warrant (Warrant A) to purchase one share of common stock with an exercise price of $1.00 per share, and (c) a seven-year detachable warrant (Warrant B and together with Warrant A, the Warrants) to purchase one share of common stock with an exercise price of $2.00 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $3,803,047 (the Private Placement). In the aggregate, we issued to the investors a total of 3,803,047 shares of common stock and a seven-year Warrant A to purchase up to 3,803,047 shares of common stock and a seven-year Warrant B to purchase up to 3,803,047 shares of common stock. Registration Rights Agreement In connection with the Private Placement, we also entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement) with the investors, pursuant to which the Company agreed to file a registration statement on Form S-1 (or any other applicable form exclusively for this offering) (the Registration Statement) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) to register for resale (i) 100% of the shares of our common stock within the Units; and (ii) 100% of the shares of our common stock underlying the Warrants (collectively, the Registrable Shares), within 60 calendar days following the closing of the Private Placement, and use the Companys best efforts to have the registration statement declared effective within 180 calendar days after closing of the Private Placement. If a Registration Statement covering the registration of the Registrable Shares is not filed with the SEC by the Required Filing Date or is not declared effective by the Required Effective Date, the Company shall pay to each Investor as liquidated damages, a cash payment equal to 3% of the aggregate amount invested by such investor in the Private Placement for every 30-day period until the Registration Statement has been filed or declared effective, or a portion thereof. Such liquidated damages shall not exceed 18% per annum. Series A Warrants Each Series A Warrant: (a) entitles the holder or its registered assigns to purchase one share of common stock; (b) is exercisable any time after the Closing Date and expires on the date that is seven years following the original issuance date of the Warrants; (c) is exercisable, in whole or in part, at an exercise price of $1.00 per share (the Exercise Price); (d) is exercisable only for cash; and 10 (e) is callable by us at a redemption price of $0.001 per warrant share by providing the holder ten day written notice (the Redemption Period); provided, however, that no redemption may occur unless (i) the Companys common stock has had a per share closing sales price of at least $1.50 for ten consecutive trading days and (ii) at the date of the redemption notice and during the entire Redemption Period there is an effective registration statement covering the resale of the Warrant Stock. Series B Warrants Each Series B Warrant: (a) entitles the holder or its registered assigns to purchase one share of common stock; (b) is exercisable any time after the Closing Date and expires on the date that is seven years following the original issuance date of the Warrants; (c) is exercisable, in whole or in part, at an exercise price of $2.00 per share (the Exercise Price); (d) is exercisable only for cash; and (e) is callable by us at a redemption price of $0.001 per warrant share by providing the holder ten day written notice (the Redemption Period); provided, however, that no redemption may occur unless (i) the Companys Common Stock has had a per share closing sales price of at least $3.00 for ten consecutive trading days and (ii) at the date of the redemption notice and during the entire Redemption Period there is an effective registration statement covering the resale of the Warrant Stock. Description of Our New Operating Business On November 17, 2011, our Company effectively changed its corporate name from Grace 2, Inc. to Q Holdings, Inc. We operate through our wholly owned subsidiary Q Therapeutics, Inc., a Salt Lake City, Utah based biopharmaceutical company that is developing human cell-based therapies intended to treat degenerative diseases of the brain and spinal cord, the primary components of the central nervous system (CNS). Q Therapeutics, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 2002. The technology upon which these therapies are based was developed by Q Therapeutics co-founder Mahendra Rao, M.D., Ph.D., a global leader in glial stem cell biology, during Dr. Raos tenure as a professor at the University of Utah and as Head of the Stem Cell Section at the National Institutes of Health. Q Therapeutics is managed by an experienced team of biotechnology executives with demonstrated start-up success and advised by leaders in the neurology and stem cell therapeutics fields. Every year, hundreds of thousands of people suffer with debilitating neurodegenerative diseases such as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrigs disease), Multiple Sclerosis, Transverse Myelitis and Spinal Cord Injuries. Traditional drugs tend to fail as long-term treatments of the damages to the CNS caused by these diseases due to the complex nature of these diseases and the nerve damage they inflict. Q Therapeutics is developing a new and nontraditional approach to improve the health of people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases: a human cell based product called Q-Cells. Q-Cells are healthy human glial cells. The job of glial cells in the body is to support and protect neurons, which are the signal transmission lines of the nervous system, by forming an insulating myelin sheath around them and providing the necessary growth factors needed to maintain a healthy nervous system. Many neurodegenerative diseases arise when glial cells are damaged or destroyed, causing neurons to malfunction and eventually die. Q-Cells technology aims to treat neurodegenerative diseases by supplementing the damaged or missing glia in the body with new, healthy cells that can help maintain and/or restore neuron function to a more robust state. The diseases targeted by Q Therapeutics products are not well treated with current drug therapies. At best, patients suffering from these diseases can, in some cases, only hope to slow their inexorable progression and the associated disabilities. A handful of companies are exploring the possibility of harnessing the power of stem cells to treat these conditions, though no clear leader has emerged. In addition to utilizing its proprietary cellular products as therapeutic products, Q Therapeutics may evaluate novel ways to utilize these cells to screen for new drugs (small molecule compounds) that could also provide treatments for neurological diseases. The Company believes that a worldwide market measured in the tens of billions of dollars exists for those companies whose cell-based treatments become commercial products. Q Therapeutics patent protected technology represents an opportunity to build on the recent advancements in the stem cell field and bring to market a therapeutic approach that will change the way medicine is practiced in treating many disabling and fatal conditions of the CNS. 11 Q Therapeutics is raising capital to complete preparations necessary to move into and initiate human clinical trials, initially treating patients that suffer from the always-fatal Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrigs Disease). Future trials are anticipated in other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Multiple Sclerosis and Spinal Cord Injury.