Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. 1 Table of Contents Financial and Operational Highlights The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations. Operating revenues $ 8,327 2,846 11,730 12,311 Operating expenses 7,784 2,267 9,729 10,336 Operating income 543 579 2,001 1,975 Net income (loss) 19 211 (55 ) 662 Balance sheet data: Total assets $ 31,220 17,220 Total long-term debt(1) 12,296 11,947 Total stockholder's equity (deficit) 11,276 (1,655 ) (1) Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. The following table presents some of our operational metrics: Operational metrics:(1) Total broadband subscribers 3,084 2,948 Total access lines(2) 8,533 9,193 (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our broadband subscribers and access lines and have reclassified prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For additional information see "Results of OperationsOverview" in Item 7 in this report. (2) Access lines are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. Operations We group our products and services among four major categories: strategic services, legacy services, data integration and affiliates and other services. See descriptions of these categories below in 2 Table of Contents the section "Products and Services". The following table provides a summary of our operating revenues by category: Strategic services $ 3,615 1,201 4,637 4,396 Legacy services 3,891 1,397 5,974 6,816 Data integration 402 123 606 561 Qwest-branded wireless services(1) 113 Affiliates and other services 419 125 513 425 Total operating revenues $ 8,327 2,846 11,730 12,311 (1) We stopped selling Qwest-branded wireless services on October 31, 2009. Substantially all of our revenues are from customers located in the United States and substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, our operations are integrated into and are reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLink's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Consequently, we do not provide our discrete financial information to the CODM on a regular basis. As such, we now have one reportable segment and we have reclassified our prior period results to conform to our current view. Products and Services Our products and services include a variety of voice, broadband, data, information technology ("IT"), video and other communications services. Through our strategic partnership with DIRECTV, we offer satellite digital television to customers in our local service area. We also offer wireless services to customers through CenturyLink's strategic partnership with Verizon Wireless. We offer our customers the ability to bundle together several products and services, such as broadband, video (including DIRECTV), voice and Verizon Wireless services. We believe our customers value the convenience of and price discounts associated with receiving multiple services through a single company. Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our network serves approximately 8.5 million access lines in 14 states and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. Described below are our key products and services. Strategic Services Our customers use our strategic services to access the Internet, connect to private networks and transmit data. We also provide value-added services and integrated solutions that make communications 3 Table of Contents more secure, reliable and efficient for our customers. We focus our marketing and sales efforts on these services: Private line. Private line is a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites. We also provide private line services to wireless service providers that use our fiber to the tower services, commonly referred to as wireless backhaul, to support their next generation wireless networks. Broadband. Our broadband services allow customers to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at high speeds. Substantially all of our broadband subscribers are located within our local service area. MPLS. Multi-Protocol Label Switching is standards-approved data networking technology, compatible with existing asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay networks we provide to support real-time voice and video. This technology allows network operators flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks. Hosting. Hosting includes providing space, power, bandwidth and managed services in our data centers. We also offer a variety of server and application management services, including back-up, disaster recovery and professional web design. Video. Our video services include primarily satellite digital television under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name. VoIP. Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN. Wireless services. Our wireless services are offered under CenturyLink's agency arrangement with Verizon Wireless that allows us, as a subsidiary of CenturyLink, to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name, primarily to customers who buy these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other products and services. CenturyLink's arrangement allows us to sell the full complement of Verizon Wireless services. CenturyLink's current arrangement with Verizon Wireless has a five-year term ending in 2015 and is terminable by either party thereafter. Legacy Services Our legacy services include local, long-distance, integrated services digital network, or ISDN (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), switched access and traditional wide area network, or WAN, services (which allow a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations). We originate, transport and terminate local services within our local service area. Local services consist primarily of basic local exchange unbundled network elements, or UNEs and switching services. We also provide the following services with our local exchange services: caller ID, call waiting, call return, 3-way calling, call forwarding, network transport, billing services, access to our network by other telecommunications services that originate or terminate on our network and voicemail. Long-distance services include domestic and international long-distance services and toll free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that either terminate or originate with our customers in the United States. Data Integration Data integration involves the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and 4 Table of Contents maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and other business customers. Affiliates and Other Services We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates: computer system development and support services, network support and technical services. We also generate other operating revenues from Universal Service Fund ("USF") revenues and surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. The majority of our real estate properties are located in our local service area. Importance, Duration and Effect of Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights Either directly or through our affiliates, we own several patents, tradenames, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property necessary to conduct our business. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our intellectual property to others. Sales and Marketing We maintain local offices in most of the larger population centers within our local service area. These offices provide sales and customer support services in the community. We also rely on our call center personnel to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. Our strategy is to enhance our communications services by offering a comprehensive bundle of services and deploying new technologies to build upon our reputation and to further enhance customer loyalty. Our approach to our residential customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. We market our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, local retail stores, telemarketing and third parties. We support our distribution with direct mail, bill inserts, newspaper advertising, website promotions, public relations activities and sponsorship of community events. Our approach to our business customers includes a commitment to deliver communications solutions that meet existing and future business needs through bundles of services and integrated service offerings. Our focus is to be a comprehensive customer communications solution for small businesses to large enterprises. Our approach to our wholesale customers includes a commitment to deliver communications solutions that meet existing and future national telecommunications providers' needs through bandwidth growth and quality of services. Network Architecture Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our local exchange carrier networks also include central offices and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches and operating with licensed software. Our fiber-optic cable is the primary transport technology between our central offices and interconnection points with other incumbent carriers. We continue to enhance and expand our network as broadband enabled technologies are being deployed to provide significant capacity to our customers. Rapid and significant changes in technology are expected to continue in the telecommunications industry. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes. 5 Table of Contents Regulation We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications in our local service area. These agencies issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition; they set the rates that telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic; and they have established funds (called universal service funds or USF) to support the provision of services to high-cost areas. In most states, local voice service, switched and special access services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. In addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with the utility commissions of most of the states in our local service area. Laws and regulations in many states restrict the manner in which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities and many mergers and acquisitions require approval by the FCC and some state commissions. Historically, incumbent local exchange carriers, or ILECs, operated as regulated monopolies having the exclusive right and responsibility to provide local telephone services in their franchised service territories. As we discuss in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, coupled with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological change, fundamentally altered the telephone industry by generally reducing the regulation of ILECs and creating a substantial increase in the number of competitors. We are considered an ILEC. The following description discusses some of the major industry regulations that affect our traditional telephone operations, but numerous other regulations not discussed below could also impact us. Some legislation and regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proceedings which could substantially change the manner in which the telecommunications industry operates and the amount of revenues we receive for our services. Neither the outcome of these proceedings, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time. The impact of regulatory changes in the telecommunications industry could have a substantial impact on our operations. For additional information, see Item 1A of this annual report below. State Regulation In recent years, most states have substantially reduced their regulation of ILECs. Nonetheless, state regulatory commissions generally continue to regulate local service rates, intrastate access charges, and in some cases service quality, as they continue to grant and revoke certifications authorizing companies to provide communications services. State commissions traditionally regulated pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focused on authorized levels of earnings by ILECs. Several states continue to regulate us in this manner. In most of our states, we are generally regulated under various forms of alternative regulation that typically limit our ability to increase rates for basic local voice service, but relieve us from the requirement to meet certain earnings tests. In a few states, we have recently gained pricing freedom for the majority of retail services except for the most basic of services, such as stand-alone basic residential voice service. In most of the states in which we operate, we have gained pricing flexibility for certain enhanced calling services, such as caller identification and for bundled services that also include local voice service. State commissions periodically conduct proceedings to review the rates that we charge other telecommunications providers for using our network or for reselling our service pursuant to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and those proceedings can result in revenue reductions. We are currently responding to carrier complaints, legislation or generic investigations regarding our intrastate switched access charge rates in several of our states. In particular, certain long-distance providers have disputed existing intercarrier compensation rates payable to us and other ILECs with respect to VoIP traffic or refused to pay access charges, based on the contention that tariffed switched access charges should not apply to VoIP traffic. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted an order 6 Table of Contents comprehensively reforming federal intercarrier compensation and universal service policies and rules, as discussed further below under the heading "Federal Regulation." Among other things, this order preempted state regulatory commissions' jurisdiction over all terminating access charges, however, intrastate access charges have historically been subject to exclusive state jurisdiction. Furthermore, the FCC decreed that on a prospective basis, intercarrier compensation rates for VoIP traffic are established at interstate access rates in the event intrastate switched access rates exceed interstate rates. The FCC order requires all terminating access rates including intrastate, interstate and reciprocal compensation rates to be reduced and unified over time. Excluding the rate implications contemplated on a prospective basis by the recent FCC order, we will continue to vigorously defend and seek to collect our intrastate switched access revenue subject to outstanding disputes. These historical disputes are primarily over access charge compensation for VoIP traffic terminating on the public switched telephone network. The outcomes of these disputes cannot be determined at this time. If we are required to reduce our intrastate switched access rates as a result of any of these disputes or state initiatives, we will seek to recover displaced switched access revenues from state universal service funds or other services. However, the amount of such recovery, particularly from residential customers, is not assured. Under state law, our telephone operating subsidiaries are typically governed by laws and regulations that (i) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (ii) prescribe certain reporting requirements, (iii) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (iv) limit ILECs' ability to borrow and establish asset liens (v) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates, and (vi) impose various other service standards. As an ILEC, we generally face "carrier of last resort" obligations which include an ongoing requirement to provide service to all prospective and current customers in our service area who request service and are willing to pay rates prescribed in our tariffs. In competitively-bid situations, such as newly-constructed housing developments or multi-tenant dwellings, this may constitute a competitive disadvantage to us if competitors can choose to focus on low-risk profitable customers and withhold service from high-risk unprofitable customers. Strict adherence to carrier of last resort requirements may force us to construct facilities with a low likelihood of positive economic return. In certain cases, we seek to mitigate these risks by receiving regulatory approval to use less costly alternative technologies, such as fixed wireless, or by sharing network construction costs with our customers. In addition, a few of our states provide relief from these obligations under certain specific circumstances, and in certain areas our costs to build and maintain network infrastructure are partially offset by payments from universal service programs. We operate in states where traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under evaluation or have been modified. There can be no assurance that these states will continue to provide for cost recovery at current levels. Federal Regulation We are required to comply with the Communications Act of 1934, which requires us to offer services at just and reasonable rates and on non-discriminatory terms, as well as the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act of 1934 primarily to promote competition. 7 Table of Contents The FCC regulates interstate services provided by us, including the special access charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and the interstate access charges that we bill to long-distance companies and other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate voice and data transmissions. Additionally, the FCC regulates a number of aspects of our business related to privacy, homeland security and network infrastructure, including access to and use of local telephone numbers. The FCC has responsibility for maintaining and administering the federal USF, which provides substantial support for maintaining networks in high-cost areas, as well as supporting service to low-income households, schools and libraries, and rural health care providers. Like other communications network operators, ILECs must obtain FCC approval to use certain radio frequencies, or to transfer control of any such licenses. The FCC retains the right to revoke these licenses if a carrier materially violates relevant legal requirements. We, like other large and mid-sized ILECs, operate under price-cap regulation of interstate access rates. Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on a company's interstate rates are adjusted periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes in certain non-controllable costs. Our operations and those of all telecommunications carriers also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations on us. The most likely areas of impact include regulations or laws related to providing broadband service, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, enhancing privacy, or addressing other issues that impact our business, including the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, and laws governing local telephone number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. These laws and regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and could impact our ability to compete effectively. From time-to-time, the FCC reviews the rates and terms under which ILECs provide special access services. If the FCC were to adopt significant changes in regulations affecting special access services, this could adversely impact our operations or financial results. Universal Service Fund and Other Related Matters For decades, the FCC has regularly considered various intercarrier compensation reforms, generally with a goal to create a uniform mechanism to be used by the entire telecommunications industry for payments between carriers originating, terminating, or carrying telecommunications traffic. In connection therewith, the FCC has received intercarrier compensation proposals from several industry groups, and solicited public comments on a variety of topics related to access charges and intercarrier compensation. In early 2011, the FCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking focused on modernizing its universal service policies and intercarrier compensation rules. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and subscriber line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. These changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. The ultimate effect of this order on communications companies is largely dependent on future FCC proceedings designed to implement the order, the most significant of which are scheduled to be determined in 2012 and 2013. On December 29, 2011, the CAF order went into effect. At the same time, numerous parties filed a Petition For Reconsideration ("PFR") with the FCC seeking numerous revisions to the order. In January 2012, CenturyLink joined more than two dozen parties in appealing certain aspects of the 8 Table of Contents order by filing a PFR that will be heard by the United States Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. Future judicial challenges to the CAF order are possible, which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. For these reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings on us at this time. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "Recovery Act") includes certain broadband initiatives that are intended to accelerate broadband deployment across the United States. The Recovery Act approved $7.2 billion in funding for broadband stimulus projects across the United States to be administered by two governmental agencies. The programs provide grants and loans to applicants for construction of certain broadband infrastructure, provision of certain broadband services, and support of certain broadband adoption initiatives. This program has attracted a wide range of applicants including states, municipalities, start-up companies and consortiums. The participation of other parties in these programs could increase competition in selected areas, which may increase our marketing costs and decrease our revenues in those areas. We cannot at this time estimate the impact these programs may have on our operations. On January 31, 2012 the FCC adopted an order modernizing the program that provides assistance to qualifying low-income individuals for local voice service. These changes also affect state-specific programs that provide assistance to qualifying individuals. The impact of these changes cannot be quantified at this time, but we may face increased administrative costs and audit requirements as a result of this FCC order and its implementation. For several years, Congress has passed bills granting successive short-term exemptions from a federal law that could otherwise delay or block funding of the USF's E-rate program, including a bill extending the exemption through December 31, 2012. Although we expect funding from this program to continue, we cannot assure you that the lack of a definitive resolution of this issue will not delay or impede the disbursement of funds in the future. Competition We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market and we expect intense competition to continue. Technological advances, regulatory and legislative changes have increased opportunities for alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. As discussed below, competition for many of our services is based in part on bundled offerings. We believe our customers value the convenience of and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. As such, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. Strategic Services With respect to our strategic services, competition is based on price, bandwidth, service, promotions and bundled offerings. Wireless carriers' fourth generation, or 4G, services are allowing them to more directly compete with our strategic services. Private line and MPLS services also compete on network reach and reliability, while hosting, broadband and VoIP services compete on bandwidth and quality of service. In providing broadband services, we compete primarily with cable companies, wireless providers and other broadband service providers. Competition within our broadband services is based on price, bandwidth and service. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable and 9 Table of Contents other satellite companies as well as other sales agents and resellers. Competition here is based on price, content and quality. The market for wireless services is highly competitive. We market and sell wireless services to customers who are buying these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other services. In reselling Verizon Wireless services, we compete with national and regional carriers as well as other sales agents and resellers. Competition for our wireless services is based on the coverage area, price, services offered, features, handsets, technical quality and customer service. In providing private line services we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. Additionally we are experiencing increased competition for private line services from cable companies. Competition for private line services is based primarily on price, as well as network reach, bandwidth, quality, reliability and customer service. Although we are experiencing intense competition in these markets, we believe we are favorably positioned due to our strong presence in our local service area. Many of our competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are and therefore they are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations. Throughout each of our competitive services, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. Legacy Services The market for legacy services is highly competitive and is based primarily on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. We believe these customers value the convenience of and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. Within the telecommunications industry, these services may include telephone, wireless, video and Internet access. Accordingly, we and our competitors continue to develop and deploy more innovative product bundling, enhanced features and combined billing options in an effort to retain and gain customers. While we rely on reseller or sales agency arrangements to provide some of our bundled services, some of our competitors are able to provide all of their bundled services directly, which may provide them a competitive advantage. Some of our competitors are subject to fewer regulations than we are which affords them competitive advantages against us. Under federal regulations, telecommunication providers are able to interconnect their networks with ours, resell our services or lease separate parts of our network in order to provide competitive services. Generally, we have been required to provide these functions and services at wholesale rates, which allow our competitors to sell their services at lower prices. However, these rules have been and continue to be reviewed by state and federal regulators. In addition, wireless and broadband service providers generally are subject to fewer regulations, which may allow them to operate with lower costs than we are able to operate. For additional discussion of regulations affecting our business, see "Regulation" above. In providing long-distance services to our customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications and VoIP providers. Competition in the long-distance market is based primarily on price; however customer service, quality and reliability can also be influencing factors. Our resale and UNE customers are experiencing the same competition with competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, for local services customers as we are, as discussed above. We also compete with some of our own customers that are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By doing so, these competitors take traffic off of our network. Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us some advantages in providing local services in our local service area, we increasingly face significant competition as an increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable, wireless and electronic communications for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has led to an increase in the number and type of competitors 10 Table of Contents within our industry and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater competition in providing local and long-distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and from broadband service providers, including cable companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies. Significant competitive factors in the local telephone industry include pricing, packaging of services and features, quality and convenience of service and meeting customer needs such as simplified billing and timely response to services calls. We provide access services to other telecommunications providers to connect their customers and their networks to our network so that they can provide long-distance, transport, data, wireless and Internet services. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies, resellers and wireless service providers. Our access service customers face competitive pressures in their businesses that are similar to those we face with respect to strategic and legacy services. To the extent that these competitive pressures result in decreased demand for their services, demand for our access services also declines. Wireless telephone services increasingly constitute a significant source of competition with ILEC services, especially since wireless carriers have begun to compete effectively on the basis of price with more traditional telephone services. As a result, some customers have chosen to completely forego use of traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service for voice services. This trend is more pronounced among residential customers, which comprise 61% of our access line customers. We anticipate this trend will continue, particularly if wireless service providers continue to expand their coverage areas, reduce their rates, improve the quality of their services and offer enhanced new services. Substantially all of our access line customers are currently capable of receiving wireless services from at least one competitive service provider. Technological and regulatory developments in wireless services, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite, coaxial cable, fiber optics, local multipoint distribution services, WiFi and other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the development of alternatives to traditional landline services. Moreover, the growing prevalence of electronic mail, text messaging, social networking and similar digital communications continues to reduce the demand for traditional landline voice services. Improvements in the quality of VoIP service have led several cable, Internet, data and other communications companies, as well as start-up companies, to substantially increase their offerings of VoIP service to business and residential customers. VoIP providers frequently offer features that cannot readily be provided by traditional ILECs and may price their services at or below those prices currently charged for traditional local and long-distance telephone services for several reasons, including lower operating costs and regulatory advantages. Although over the past several years the FCC has increasingly subjected portions of VoIP operations to federal regulation, VoIP services currently operate under fewer regulatory constraints than LEC services. For all these reasons, we cannot assure that VoIP providers will not successfully compete for our customers. In providing other legacy services, such as traditional WAN services and ISDN, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers and cable companies. Competition for these other legacy services is based primarily on price and bundled offerings. Data Integration In providing data integration to our customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. Our strategy is to provide our data integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy 11 Table of Contents services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing strategic and legacy services, as discussed above. Environmental Compliance From time to time we may incur environmental compliance and remediation expenses, mainly resulting from the operation of vehicle fleets or power supplies for our communications equipment. Although we cannot assess with certainty the impact of any future compliance and remediation obligations, we do not believe that future environmental compliance and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Seasonality Overall, our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality. From time to time weather related problems have resulted in increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year. Employees At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 27,000 employees, of which approximately 13,000 were members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW") or the Communications Workers of America ("CWA"). We believe that relations with our employees continue to be generally good. However, our current four-year agreements with the IBEW and CWA will expire October 6, 2012. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in "Risk FactorsOther Risks" in Item 1A of this report. We have reduced our workforce primarily due to (i) integration efforts from CenturyLink's acquisition of us; (ii) increased competitive pressures; and (iii) the loss of access lines over the last several years. Website Access and Important Investor Information Our website is the same as that of our parent company, CenturyLink, which is www.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We have adopted CenturyLink's written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that CenturyLink makes any changes (other than by a technical, administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of its code of conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, CenturyLink intends to disclose these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of CenturyLink's guidelines on significant governance issues and the charters of their audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and risk evaluation committee, are also available in the "Corporate Governance" section of our website at www.centurylink.com/Pages/AboutUs/Governance/ or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at CenturyLink, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203. 12 Table of Contents Investors may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. For information on the operation of the Public Reference Room, you are encouraged to call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. For all of our electronic filings, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. In connection with filing this annual report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Act's related regulations. In addition, during 2011, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violations by us of the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities law include, and future oral or written statements or press releases by us and our management may include, forward-looking statements about our financial condition, operating results and business. These statements include, among others: statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our business activities and certain transactions we have completed, such as increased revenue and decreased capital or operating expenditures; statements about our anticipated future operating and financial performance, financial position and liquidity, tax position, contingent liabilities, growth opportunities and growth rates, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, business prospects, regulatory and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure plans, investment results, financing alternatives and sources and pricing plans; and other similar statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other matters that are not historical facts, many of which are highlighted by words such as "may," "would," "could," "should," "plan," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "likely," "seeks," "hopes," or variations or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date such statements are made concerning future developments and events, many of which are outside of our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by us in those statements. Some of these uncertainties and risks are described in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report. These risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Anticipated events may not occur and our actual results or performance may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Additional risks that we currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected results. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. 13 Table of Contents Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the communications industry are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our management's knowledge and experience in the markets in which we operate and the communications industry generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. Our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A of this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Please be aware that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risks Affecting Our Business Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We are facing greater competition from cable companies, wireless providers, broadband companies, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other factors, we continue to lose access lines. Some of our current and potential competitors (i) offer a more comprehensive range of communications products and services, (ii) have market presence, engineering and technical capabilities, and financial and other resources greater than ours, (iii) own larger and more diverse networks, (iv) conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than us, (v) are subject to less regulation, (vi) offer greater online content services or (vii) have substantially stronger brand names. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and market share, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. 14 Table of Contents We are continually taking steps to respond to these competitive pressures, but these efforts may not be successful. Our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected if these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient and if we otherwise are unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly without corresponding cost reductions. If this occurred, our ability to service debt and pay other obligations would also be adversely affected. Our legacy services continue to generate declining revenues, and our efforts to offset these declines may not be successful. The telephone industry has experienced a decline in access lines and network access revenues, which, coupled with the other changes resulting from competitive, technological and regulatory developments, continue to place downward pressure on the revenues we generate from our legacy services. We have taken a variety of steps to counter these declines, including: an increased focus on selling a broader range of strategic services, including broadband, satellite television provided by DIRECTV and wireless voice services provided by Verizon Wireless; and greater use of service bundles. However, some of these strategic services generate lower profit margins than our traditional services, and some can be expected to experience slowing growth as increasing numbers of our existing or potential customers subscribe to these newer products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from our new offerings will offset revenue losses associated from reduced sales of our legacy products. In addition, our reliance on services provided by others could constrain our flexibility, as described further below. Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, could negatively affect our business. Worldwide economic growth has been sluggish since 2008, and many experts believe that a confluence of factors in the United States, Europe and developing countries may result in a prolonged period of economic downturn, slow growth or economic uncertainty. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of these general economic conditions, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to continue declining. Also, our customers may encounter financial hardships or may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, as discussed below, unstable economic and credit markets may preclude us from refinancing maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to raise capital. We may need to defend ourselves against claims that we infringe upon others' intellectual property rights, or may need to seek third-party licenses to expand our product offerings. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may 15 Table of Contents require us to expend significant time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. Similarly, from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If we cannot license or otherwise obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be restricted, made more costly or delayed. Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers, including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services, our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We could be harmed by network disruptions, security breaches, or other significant disruptions or failures of our IT infrastructure and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers . To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a high capacity, reliable and secure network. We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack, malware, computer viruses, sabotage, or other significant disruption of our IT infrastructure and related systems. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT infrastructure and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our business and governmental customers. As a communications and IT company, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from unauthorized access to our and our customers' proprietary or classified information on our systems or the systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and systems, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging, especially in light of the growing sophistication of cyber attacks and intrusions. We may be unable to anticipate all potential types of attacks or intrusions or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. Additional risks to our network and infrastructure include: power losses or physical damage, whether caused by fire, adverse weather conditions, terrorism or otherwise; capacity limitations; 16 Table of Contents software and hardware defects or malfunctions; programming, processing and other human error; and other disruptions that are beyond our control. Network disruptions, security breaches and other significant failures of the above-described systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; require significant management attention or financial resources to remedy the damages that result or to change our systems; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, fines, penalties, termination or other remedies, particularly with respect to service standards set by state regulatory commissions; or result in a loss of business, damage our reputation among our customers and the public generally, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation. Any or all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our internal information technology hardware and software infrastructure (including our billing systems) are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, service or billing interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The communications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, many of which are reducing demand for our traditional voice services or are enabling our current customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks. Technological change could also require us to expend capital or other resources in excess of currently contemplated levels, or to forego the development or provision of products or services that others can provide more efficiently. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any inability to keep up with changes in technology and markets could also adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. 17 Table of Contents Consolidation among other participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the last decade, and some of our competitors have combined with other telecommunications providers, resulting in competitors that are larger, have more financial and business resources, and have broader service offerings. Further consolidation could increase competitive pressures, and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. We have a significant amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings and reduce our stockholder's equity. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. If our goodwill is determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a significant, non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers, vendors, landlords and other third parties to operate our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. Our local exchange carrier networks consist of central office and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches. If any of these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering or servicing these network components on a timely basis, our operations could suffer significantly. To the extent that proprietary technology of a supplier is an integral component of our network, we may have limited flexibility to purchase key network components from alternative suppliers. Similarly, our data center operations are materially reliant on leasing space from landlords and power services from utility companies, and being able to renew these arrangements from time to time on favorable terms. In addition, we rely on a limited number of software vendors to support our business management systems. In the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement supplies, services, space or utilities on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs or cause disruptions in our services. Portions of our property, plant and equipment are located on property owned by third parties. Over the past few years, certain utilities, cooperatives and municipalities in certain of the states in which we operate have requested significant rate increases for attaching our plant to their facilities. To the extent that these entities are successful in increasing the amount we pay for these attachments, our future operating costs will increase. In addition, we rely on rights-of-way, colocation agreements and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies and other third parties to locate our cable, conduit and other network equipment on their respective properties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. We depend on key members of our senior management team. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of a limited number of senior officers. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense and we may have difficulty retaining our current senior officers or attracting new ones in the event of terminations or resignations. For a discussion of similar retention concerns relating to our recent mergers, please see the risks described below under the heading "Risks Relating to Our Recent Acquisitions." 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Recent Acquisitions We may be unable to integrate successfully the Legacy CenturyLink and Qwest businesses and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. CenturyLink's acquisition of us involved the combination of two companies which previously operated as independent public companies. We have devoted, and will continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Legacy CenturyLink and Qwest. We may encounter difficulties in the integration process, including the following: the inability to successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the acquisition, either due to technological challenges, personnel shortages, strikes or otherwise, any of which would result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; lost sales as a result of customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company; the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel from the two companies, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high quality products and services under a unified culture; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, regulatory restrictions, product markets and customer bases; the failure to retain key employees, some of whom could be critical to integrating the companies; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisition; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating the companies' operations. For all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our products, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our final determinations of the acquisition date fair value of our assets and liabilities may be significantly different from our current estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. CenturyLink has accounted for its acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. As such, we have not completed our valuation analysis and calculations in sufficient detail necessary to arrive at the final estimates of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, along with the related allocations to goodwill and intangible assets. As such, all information presented in this report is preliminary and subject to revision pending the final valuation analysis. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations no later than the first quarter of 2012. Our final fair value determinations 19 Table of Contents may be significantly different than those reflected in this report, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We cannot assure you whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use our net operating losses. At December 31, 2011, we had federal net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $6.3 billion. These NOLs can be used to offset our future federal taxable income. CenturyLink's acquisition of us caused an "ownership change" under federal tax laws relating to the use of NOLs. As a result, these laws could limit CenturyLink's ability to use our NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes to reduce future federal taxable income. We expect to use substantially all of these NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes. However, if CenturyLink is unable to realize these benefits, its future income tax payments would be higher than expected, which would adversely affect its financial results and liquidity. As a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink, our financial results and liquidity could be similarly affected. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation, or other material litigation of CenturyLink could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, on the trading price of our debt securities and on our ability to access the capital markets. As described in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report and Item 8 of CenturyLink's Annual Report on Form 10-K, CenturyLink and us are involved in several legal proceedings that, if resolved against them or us, could have a material adverse effect on their, as well as our, business and financial condition. These matters include certain KPNQwest matters, which present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters seek billions of euros (equating to billions of dollars) in damages. In addition, the outcome of one of the two pending matters could have a negative impact on the other. We continue to defend against these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. We can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional debt securities or selling assets. There are other material proceedings pending against CenturyLink and us, as described in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, and Item 8 of CenturyLink's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Depending on their outcome, any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operating results. We can give you no assurances as to the impact of these matters on our operating results or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation. General We are subject to significant regulation by the FCC, which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer regulated services, and we are subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements and interpretations under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we are always considered to be in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their own initiative. Regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Notwithstanding a recent movement towards alternative regulation, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which periodically exposes us to pricing or earnings disputes and could expose us to unanticipated price declines. Interexchange carriers have filed complaints in various forums requesting reductions in our access rates. In addition, several long distance providers are disputing amounts owed to us for carrying VoIP traffic, or traffic they claim to be VoIP traffic, and are refusing to pay such amounts. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. Risks associated with recent changes in federal regulation On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and subscriber line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. These changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive with respect to some of our various services, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. The ultimate effect of this order on communications companies is largely dependent on future FCC proceedings designed to implement the order, the most significant of which are scheduled to be determined in 2012 and 2013. Several judicial challenges to the CAF order are pending and additional future challenges are possible, any of which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. For these reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time. Under other pending proceedings, the FCC may implement changes in the regulation or pricing of special access services, any of which could adversely affect our operations or financial results. Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance Regulations continue to create significant compliance costs for us. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, such challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. Our business also may be impacted by 21 Table of Contents legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to regulations or laws related to broadband deployment, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, enhancing privacy, or addressing other issues that impact our business, including the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (which requires communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized electronic surveillance), and laws governing local number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. We expect our compliance costs to increase if future laws or regulations continue to increase our obligations to assist other governmental agencies. Risks posed by other regulations All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental regulations. We monitor our compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we believe that we are in compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition against us. Beginning in 1996, Congress and the FCC have taken several steps that have resulted in increased competition among service providers. Many of the FCC's regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings, thus making it difficult to predict what effect any changes in interpretation of the 1996 Act may ultimately have on us and our competitors. We could be adversely affected by programs or initiatives recently undertaken by Congress or the FCC, including (i) the federal broadband stimulus projects authorized by Congress in 2009; (ii) the FCC's 2010 National Broadband Plan; (iii) new "network neutrality" rules; (iv) the proposed broadband "Connect America" replacement support fund, and (v) the FCC's above-described October 27, 2011 order. We are subject to significant regulations that limit our flexibility. As a diversified full service ILEC, we have traditionally been subject to significant regulation that does not apply to many of our competitors. This regulation imposes substantial compliance costs on us and restricts our ability to change rates, to compete and to respond rapidly to changing industry conditions. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, regulatory disparities between us and our competitors could impede our ability to compete. We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. Any future failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in us. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see Item 1 of this report. 22 Table of Contents Risks Affecting our Liquidity CenturyLink's and our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. Our parent, CenturyLink, and we continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2011, our consolidated debt was approximately $12 billion, which was included in CenturyLink's consolidated debt of approximately $21.8 billion as of that date. Approximately $4.3 billion of CenturyLink's debt, which includes approximately $3.0 billion of our debt obligations, comes due over the next three years. While we currently believe CenturyLink and we will have the financial resources to meet or refinance our obligations when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate our future condition or that of CenturyLink, the credit markets or the economy generally. We may have unexpected expenses and liabilities, and we may have limited access to financing. We expect to periodically require financing to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) if revenues and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive pressures increase, if we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our collective pension plans, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits significantly earlier than is anticipated, if CenturyLink or we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report or Item 8 in CenturyLink's Annual Report on Form 10-K. We can give no assurance that this additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which could further raise our borrowing costs and further limit our future access to capital and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Our significant levels of debt can adversely affect us in several other respects, including (i) exposing us to the risk of credit rating downgrades, which would raise our borrowing costs, (ii) hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions, (iii) limiting our ability to access the capital markets, (iv) limiting the amount of free cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, or other uses, (v) making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases, and (vi) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. Certain of our debt issues have cross payment default or cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit ratings. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report for additional information about CenturyLink's credit facility. The degree to which we, together with CenturyLink, are leveraged may have other important limiting consequences, including the following: placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared with our less leveraged competitors; making us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions or in any of our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and 23 Table of Contents impairing our credit ratings or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. We may be unable to significantly reduce the substantial capital requirements or operating expenses necessary to continue to operate our business, which may in turn affect our operating results. The industry in which we operate is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the coming years. Although we have reduced our operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further significantly reduce these costs, even if revenues in some areas of our business are decreasing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our maintenance and our core growth requirements going forward, this may not be the case if circumstances underlying our expectations change. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our qualified pension plan could negatively impact our liquidity. The funded status of our qualified pension plan is the difference between the value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The accounting unfunded status of our qualified pension plan was $627 million as of December 31, 2011. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligation or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. These adverse changes could require us to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan or could accelerate the timing of required cash payments. Based on current funding laws and regulations, we opted to make a contribution of $307 million in December 2011, and therefore, will not be required to make a contribution in 2012. Although potentially significant in the aggregate, we currently expect that plan contributions in 2013 and beyond will decrease from the 2011 contribution amount. However, the actual amount of required contributions to the plan in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on plan investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions could have a negative impact by reducing our cash flows, which in turn could affect our liquidity. Our debt agreements and the debt agreements of CenturyLink and its other subsidiaries allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. The terms of our debt instruments and the debt instruments of CenturyLink and its other subsidiaries permit additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be necessary for many reasons, including to adequately respond to competition, to comply with regulatory requirements related to our service obligations or for financial reasons alone. Incremental borrowings on terms that impose additional financial risks could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. CenturyLink plans to access the public debt markets, and we cannot assure you that these markets will remain free of disruptions. CenturyLink has a significant amount of indebtedness that it intends to refinance over the next several years, principally it expects through the issuance of debt securities of CenturyLink, Qwest Corporation ("QC") or both. CenturyLink's ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, its financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond its control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crises in Europe, the failure of the United States to reduce its deficit in amounts deemed to be sufficient, possible further downgrades in the credit ratings of the U.S. debt, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, CenturyLink cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize its and our ability to repay, refinance or reduce debt obligations. 24 Table of Contents Other Risks If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are described in Item 7 of this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered "critical" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Tax audits or changes in tax laws could adversely affect us. For periods after the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. As such, we could be severally liable for tax examinations and adjustments attributable to other members of the CenturyLink affiliated group. Significant taxpayers (such as QCII for periods prior to the CenturyLink acquisition and CenturyLink for periods after the CenturyLink acquisition) are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. Tax sharing agreements have been executed between us and previous affiliates, and we believe the liabilities, if any, arising from adjustments to previously filed returns would be borne by the affiliated group member determined to have a deficiency under the terms and conditions of such agreements and applicable tax law. We have not generally provided for liabilities attributable to former affiliated companies or for claims they have asserted or may assert against us. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results. Our agreements and organizational documents and applicable law could limit another party's ability to acquire us. A number of provisions in our agreements and organizational documents and various provisions of applicable law may delay, defer or prevent a future takeover of CenturyLink unless the takeover is approved by its Board of Directors. This could deprive our shareholders of any related takeover premium. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 27,000 employees, of which approximately 13,000 were members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW") or the Communications Workers of America ("CWA"). From time to time, our labor agreements with these 25 Table of Contents unions lapse, and we typically negotiate the terms of new agreements. Our current four-year agreements with the IBEW and CWA will expire October 6, 2012. We may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services and result in increased cost to us. In addition, new labor agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations in the future. To the extent they contain benefit provisions; these agreements also limit our flexibility to change benefits in response to industry or competitive changes. In particular, the post-employment benefits provided under these agreements cause us to incur costs not faced by many of our competitors, which could ultimately hinder our competitive position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our property, plant and equipment consists principally of telephone lines, central office equipment, and land and buildings related to our telephone operations. The components of our gross property, plant and equipment consisted of the following: Land 4 % nm Fiber, conduit and other outside plant(1) 34 % 44 % Central office and other network electronics(2) 33 % 44 % Support assets(3) 27 % 11 % Construction in progress(4) 2 % 1 % Gross property, plant and equipment 100 % 100 % nmRepresents less than 1% of gross property, plant and equipment. (1) Fiber, conduit and other outside plant consists of fiber and metallic cable, conduit, poles and other supporting structures. (2) Central office and other network electronics consists of circuit and packet switches, routers, transmission electronics and electronics providing service to customers. (3) Support assets consist of buildings, computers and other administrative and support equipment. (4) Construction in progress includes property of the foregoing categories that has not been placed in service as it is still under construction. We own substantially all of our telecommunications equipment required for our business. However, we lease certain facilities and equipment under various capital lease arrangements when the leasing arrangements are more favorable to us than purchasing the assets. We also own and lease administrative offices in major metropolitan locations both in the United States and internationally. Substantially all of our network electronics equipment is located in buildings or land that we own or lease within our local service area. Outside of our local service area, our assets are generally located on real property pursuant to an agreement with the property owner or another 26 Table of Contents person with rights to the property. It is possible that we may lose our rights under one or more of these agreements, due to their termination or their expiration. Several putative class actions have been filed against us disputing our use of certain rights-of-way as described in "Legal ProceedingsOther Matters" in Item 3 of this report. If we lose any of these rights-of-way or are unable to renew them, we may find it necessary to move or replace the affected portions of our network. However, we do not expect any material adverse impacts as a result of the loss of any of these rights. On April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. On the date of the acquisition, our assets and liabilities were recognized at fair value. This revaluation has been reflected in our financial statements and, therefore, has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the successor period beginning on April 1, 2011. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011 and the predecessor date of December 31, 2010, our total net property, plant and equipment was approximately $9.5 billion and approximately $11.8 billion, respectively. For additional information, see Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLink and Note 6Property, Plant and Equipment to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS CenturyLink is involved in several legal proceedings to which we are not a party that, if resolved against CenturyLink, could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. As a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink, our business and financial condition could be similarly affected. You can find descriptions of these legal proceedings in CenturyLink's quarterly and annual reports filed with the SEC. Because we are not a party to any of these matters, we have not accrued any liabilities for these matters. In this section, when we refer to a class action as "putative" it is because a class has been alleged, but not certified in that matter. Until and unless a class has been certified by the court, it has not been established that the named plaintiffs represent the class of plaintiffs they purport to represent. We have established accrued liabilities for the matters described below where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. The terms and conditions of applicable bylaws, certificates or articles of incorporation, agreements or applicable law may obligate us to indemnify our former directors, officers or employees with respect to certain of the matters described below and we have been advancing legal fees and costs to certain former directors, officers or employees in connection with certain matters described below. KPNQwest Litigation/Investigation On September 29, 2010, the trustees in the Dutch bankruptcy proceeding for KPNQwest, N.V. (of which we were a major shareholder) filed a lawsuit in district court in Haarlem, the Netherlands, alleging tort and mismanagement claims under Dutch law. We and Koninklijke KPN N.V. ("KPN") are defendants in this lawsuit along with a number of former KPNQwest supervisory board members and a former officer of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with us. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that defendants' actions were a cause of the bankruptcy of KPNQwest, and they seek damages for the bankruptcy deficit of KPNQwest, which is claimed to be approximately 4.2 billion (or approximately $5.4 billion based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2011), plus statutory interest. Two lawsuits asserting similar claims were previously filed against Qwest and others in federal courts in New Jersey in 2004 and Colorado in 2009; those courts dismissed the lawsuits without prejudice on the grounds that the claims should not be litigated in the United States. On September 13, 2006, Cargill Financial Markets, Plc and Citibank, N.A. filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, against us, KPN, KPN Telecom B.V., and other former 27 Table of Contents officers, employees or supervisory board members of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with us. The lawsuit alleges that defendants misrepresented KPNQwest's financial and business condition in connection with the origination of a credit facility and wrongfully allowed KPNQwest to borrow funds under that facility. Plaintiffs allege damages of approximately 219 million (or approximately $284 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2011). We have note accrued for the above matters as it is premature to determine whether an accrual is warranted and, if so, a reasonable estimate of probably liability. We will continue to defend against the pending KPNQwest litigation matters vigorously. Other Matters Several putative class actions relating to the installation of fiber-optic cable in certain rights-of-way were filed against Qwest on behalf of landowners on various dates and in various courts in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois (where there is a federal and a state court case), Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and Washington. For the most part, the complaints challenge our right to install our fiber-optic cable in railroad rights-of-way. The complaints allege that the railroads own the right-of-way as an easement that did not include the right to permit us to install our fiber-optic cable in the right-of-way without the Plaintiffs' consent. Most of the actions purport to be brought on behalf of state-wide classes in the named Plaintiffs' respective states, although two of the currently pending actions purport to be brought on behalf of multi-state classes. Specifically, the Illinois state court action purports to be on behalf of landowners in Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin, and the Indiana state court action purports to be on behalf of a national class of landowners. In general, the complaints seek damages on theories of trespass and unjust enrichment, as well as punitive damages. On July 18, 2008, a federal district court in Massachusetts entered an order preliminarily approving a settlement of all of the actions described above, except the action pending in Tennessee. On September 10, 2009, the court denied final approval of the settlement on grounds that it lacked subject matter jurisdiction. On December 9, 2009, the court issued a revised ruling that, among other things, denied a motion for approval as moot and dismissed the matter for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. The parties are now engaged in negotiating and finalizing settlements on a state-by-state basis, and have filed and received final approval of settlements in Alabama and Illinois federal court, and in Tennessee state court. Final approval also has been granted in federal court actions in Idaho and North Dakota, to which Qwest is not a party. We have accrued an amount that we believe is probable for these matters; however, the amount is not material to our financial statements. The information contained in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Not Applicable. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table of selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. The comparability of the following selected financial data below is significantly impacted by CenturyLink's April 1, 2011 acquisition of us and the resulting revaluation of our assets and liabilities. As a result of the acquisition, the following table presents certain selected consolidated financial data for two periods: predecessor and successor, which relate to the periods preceding the acquisition and the period succeeding the acquisition, respectively. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. Selected financial information from the consolidated statements of operations data is as follows: Operating revenues $ 8,327 2,846 11,730 12,311 13,475 13,778 Operating expenses $ 7,784 2,267 9,729 10,336 11,378 12,022 Operating income $ 543 579 2,001 1,975 2,097 1,756 Income before income tax expense $ 51 357 450 903 1,051 620 Net income (loss) $ 19 211 (55 ) 662 652 2,890 (1) See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations" in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of unusual items affecting the results for the successor nine months ended December 31, 2011, the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, as well as the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. Selected financial information from the consolidated balance sheets is as follows: Goodwill $ 10,106 Total assets $ 31,220 17,220 20,380 20,141 22,471 Total long-term debt(1) $ 12,296 11,947 14,200 13,555 14,098 Total stockholder's equity (deficit) $ 11,276 (1,655 ) (1,178 ) (1,386 ) 655 (1) Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. 29 Table of Contents Selected financial information from the consolidated statements of cash flows is as follows: Other data: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,152 777 3,367 3,307 2,931 3,026 Net cash used in investing activities (1,868 ) (408 ) (1,488 ) (1,406 ) (1,693 ) (1,601 ) Net cash used in financing activities (660 ) (317 ) (3,913 ) (60 ) (1,575 ) (1,764 ) Payments for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (1,207 ) (410 ) (1,488 ) (1,409 ) (1,777 ) (1,669 ) The following table presents certain selected consolidated operating data as of the following dates: Broadband subscribers(1) 3,084 2,948 Access lines 8,533 9,193 (1) We have updated our methodology for counting our broadband subscribers and access lines and have reclassified prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For additional information see "Results of OperationsOverview" in Item 7 in this report. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All references to "Notes" in this Item 7 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this annual report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in Item 1 of this report for factors relating to these statements and see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overview We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), broadband, data, managed hosting, wireless and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to competitive local exchange carriers. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. We generate the majority of our revenues from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We refer to this region as our local service area. As discussed in Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLink, on April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. Each outstanding share of our common stock was converted into 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The estimated aggregate consideration was approximately $12.273 billion. Since April 1, 2011, our results of operations have been included in the consolidated results of operations of CenturyLink. CenturyLink has accounted for its acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations no later than the first quarter of 2012. Our final fair value determinations may be significantly different than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. Based on our preliminary estimate, the aggregate consideration exceeds the aggregate estimated fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of us by $10.106 billion, which has been recognized as goodwill. This goodwill is attributable to strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks that we expect CenturyLink and its consolidated subsidiaries, including us, to realize. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The recognition of assets and liabilities at fair value is reflected in our financial statements and therefore has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the "successor period" beginning on April 1, 2011. This new basis of accounting means that our financial statements for the successor periods will not be comparable to our previously reported financial statements, including the predecessor period financial statements in this report. We have recognized $154 million of certain expenses associated with activities related to CenturyLink's acquisition of us during the successor nine months ended December 31, 2011. These expenses were comprised of primarily severance, retention bonuses, share-based compensation and system integration consulting. During the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, we 31 Table of Contents recognized $3 million of expenses associated with our activities related to the acquisition. As part of the acquisition accounting on April 1, 2011, we also included in our goodwill $35 million for financial advisory fees, $23 million for certain performance awards and $16 million related to retention bonuses, all of which were contingent on the completion of the acquisition and had no benefit to CenturyLink after the acquisition. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries, including us, under which the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink as a short-term affiliate loan. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, our operations are integrated into and are reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLink's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Consequently, we do not provide our discrete financial information to the CODM on a regular basis. As such, we now have one reportable segment and we have reclassified our prior period results to conform to our current view. During the second quarter of 2011, our dedicated internet access services were reclassified from our legacy services to strategic services and certain USF surcharges were reclassified from our legacy services to affiliates and other services revenues to better align with the classifications that our new parent, CenturyLink, uses. As a result, we reclassified previously reported amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $63 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $30 million, an increase to affiliates and other services revenues of $32 million, and an increase of data integration revenue of $1 million. For the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010, this reclassification resulted in a decrease of legacy service revenues of $283 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $148 million, an increase of affiliates and other services revenues of $2 million, and an increase of data integration revenue of $133 million. For the predecessor year ended December 31, 2009, this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $259 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $179 million, an increase of affiliates and other services revenues of $76 million, and an increase of data integration revenue of $4 million. We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily private line (including special access), broadband, multi protocol line switching ("MPLS") (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting, video (including DIRECTV), voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, integrated services digital network ("ISDN") (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), switched access and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration , which is telecommunications equipment we sell that is located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our government and business customers; and Affiliates and other services , which consist primarily of USF surcharges and services we provide to our affiliates. We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates: computer system development and support services; network support and technical services. 32 Table of Contents As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, we served approximately 3.1 million broadband subscribers. We also operated approximately 8.5 million access lines, which are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the PSTN. During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines to conform to the methodology used by CenturyLink, our parent. We now count access lines when we install the service. Our new methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. Our new methodology for counting our access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. The discussion in MD&A is presented on a combined basis for the successor periods in 2011. We believe that the discussion on a combined basis is more meaningful as it allows the results of operations to be analyzed to the annual period in 2010. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of this report. Business Trends Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Strategic services. We continue to see shifts in the makeup of our total revenues as customers move to strategic services, such as private line, broadband and video services, from legacy services, such as local and access services. Revenues from our strategic services represented 43% and 40% of our total revenues for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 and the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010, respectively, and this percentage continues to grow. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services, particularly among consumer and small business customers. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, we reached approximately 3.1 million broadband subscribers compared to approximately 2.9 million as of the predecessor date of December 31, 2010. We believe that continually increasing connection speeds is important to remaining competitive in our industry. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network made up of only copper wires. In addition to our FTTN deployment, we continue to expand our product offerings and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which most consumers already have broadband services. While traditional ATM based broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber based broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our broadband revenues. Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our business, we ultimately believe the growth in fiber-based special access provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain. Legacy services. Revenues from our legacy services represented 47% and 51% of our total revenues for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 and for the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010, respectively, and continue to decline. Our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many 33 Table of Contents consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice and electronic mail and social networking services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to impact our business. Service bundling and other product promotions, as described below, continue to be some of our responses to offset the loss of revenues as a result of access line losses. Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this revenue stream tends to be more sensitive than revenues from our other services to changes in the economy and to changes in spending trends of our federal government customers. Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While our video and wireless services are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not make a large contribution to strategic services revenues. However, we believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual products, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer limited time promotions on our broadband service for prospective customers who want our broadband product in their bundle which further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our services. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. Pension and post-retirement benefits expenses. We are required to recognize in our consolidated financial statements certain expenses relating to our pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans. These expenses are calculated based on several assumptions, including among other things discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are generally set at December 31 of each year. Changes in these assumptions can cause significant changes in the combined net periodic benefits expenses we recognize. We allocate the expenses of these plans to certain of our other affiliates. The allocation of expenses is based upon the demographics of employees and retirees at our affiliates. Changes in our assumptions can cause significant changes in the net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recognize. Disciplined capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband and fiber to the tower, or FTTT. FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a telecommunication provider's broadband interconnection points to cellular towers. FTTT allows for the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network. While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, additional events, uncertainties and trends discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations: Operating revenues $ 8,327 2,846 11,173 11,730 (557 ) (5 )% Operating expenses 7,784 2,267 10,051 9,729 322 3 % Operating income 543 579 1,122 2,001 (879 ) (44 )% Other income (expense) (492 ) (222 ) (714 ) (1,551 ) 837 (54 )% Income tax expense 32 146 178 505 (327 ) (65 )% Net income (loss) $ 19 211 230 (55 ) nm nm Employees 26,900 28,300 (1,400 ) (5 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. The following table summarizes our broadband subscribers and access lines: Operational metrics: Broadband subscribers 3,084 2,948 5 % Access lines 8,533 9,193 (7 )% During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines where we provide the services. We historically counted access lines at the point we billed them. However, now we count access lines when we install the service. This change in our methodology has resulted in an approximately 69,000 decrease in our successor June 30, 2011 access lines. We have not retrospectively adjusted our predecessor period access lines for this methodology adjustment as it was not reasonably practicable for us to do so. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our new methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. We have conformed prior periods to our current presentation, unless noted above. 35 Table of Contents Operating Revenues Strategic services $ 3,615 1,201 4,816 4,637 179 4 % Legacy services 3,891 1,397 5,288 5,974 (686 ) (11 )% Data integration 402 123 525 606 (81 ) (13 )% Affiliates and other services 419 125 544 513 31 6 % Total operating revenues $ 8,327 2,846 11,173 11,730 (557 ) (5 )% Strategic Services Strategic services revenues increased primarily due to higher broadband revenues resulting from new subscribers as well as an improving mix of higher priced, higher speed broadband services, an increase in MPLS volumes and increased volumes in our private line services. Legacy Services Legacy services revenues decreased as a result of lower local services revenues due to access line loss and reduced access services usage related to competitive pressures and product substitution. Legacy services revenues also decreased due to lower amortization of deferred revenue due to certain predecessor deferred revenue being assigned no value at the acquisition date, as well as lower revenues from our traditional WAN services, due to customer migration, product substitution and increased competition. Data Integration Revenues from data integration decreased primarily due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Affiliates and Other Services Affiliates and other services revenues increased primarily due to telecommunication services we provide to affiliates since CenturyLink's acquisition of us. Operating Expenses As discussed in Note 1Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 of this report, during the first quarter of 2011, we changed the definitions we use to classify expenses as cost of services and products and selling, general and administrative and as a result, we reclassified previously reported amounts to conform to the current period presentation. 36 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our operating expenses: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 3,523 1,178 4,701 5,011 (310 ) (6 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,741 556 2,297 2,518 (221 ) (9 )% Operating expensesaffiliates 126 126 126 nm Depreciation and amortization 2,394 533 2,927 2,200 727 33 % Total operating expenses $ 7,784 2,267 10,051 9,729 322 3 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are expenses incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These expenses include: employee-related expenses directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages, benefits and professional fees); facilities expenses (which are third-party telecommunications expenses we incur for using other carriers' networks to provide services to our customers); rents and utilities expenses; equipment sales expenses (such as data integration and modem expenses); costs for universal service funds ("USF") (which are federal and state funds that are established to promote the availability of telecommunications services to all consumers at reasonable and affordable rates, among other things and to which we are often required to contribute); and other expenses directly related to our network and hosting operations. Cost of services and products decreased due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Lower facilities expenses as a result of both lower rates and lower volumes for long-distance service and cost optimization also contributed to the lower expenses in cost of services and products. Cost of services and products also decreased due to lower salaries and wages related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. The amortization of certain deferred expenses is lower due to assigning no value to these predecessor assets at the acquisition date. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses are expenses incurred in selling products and services to our customers, corporate overhead and other operating expenses. These expenses include: employee-related expenses (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions, benefits and professional fees) directly attributable to selling products or services and employee-related expenses for administrative functions; marketing and advertising; taxes (such as property and other taxes) and fees; external commissions; bad debt expense; and other selling, general and administrative expenses. These expenses decreased primarily due to decreased pension expense, professional fees and marketing and advertising expense. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in severance related to employee reductions, a majority of which was due to CenturyLink's acquisition of us. 37 Table of Contents Operating ExpensesAffiliates Since CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we have incurred affiliates expenses related to our use of telecommunication services, marketing and employee related support services provided by CenturyLink and its subsidiaries. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense: Depreciation $ 1,209 475 1,684 1,979 (295 ) (15 )% Amortization 1,185 58 1,243 221 1,022 nm Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,394 533 2,927 2,200 727 33 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. As of April 1, 2011, our property, plant and equipment was recorded at fair value and as a result net property, plant and equipment decreased $2.111 billion due to CenturyLink's acquisition of us. The decrease in asset value resulted in lower depreciation expense for the combined year ended December 31, 2011. The accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us, also resulted in an additional $7.625 billion in amortizable intangible customer relationship assets, which resulted in an additional $770 million of amortization expense for the combined year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, capitalized software was recorded at a fair value of $1.702 billion, an increase of $815 million, resulting in amortization expense of $412 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $221 million for the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our total other income (expense) and income tax expense: Interest expense $ (486 ) (227 ) (713 ) (1,039 ) (326 ) (31 )% Loss on embedded option in convertible debt (475 ) nm nm Loss on early retirement of debt (8 ) (8 ) (45 ) (37 ) (82 )% Other income (expense) 2 5 7 8 (1 ) (13 )% Total other income (expense) $ (492 ) (222 ) (714 ) (1,551 ) 837 ) (54 )% Income tax expense $ 32 146 178 505 (327 ) (65 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. 38 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Interest expense decreased in the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to the amortization of the net premium associated with our long-term debt, which resulted from the accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us. The decrease is also due to the early retirement and maturity of debt since the acquisition date, offset by interest incurred on new debt issued. The decrease was slightly offset by the amortization of new debt issuance costs. In November and December 2010, we redeemed all of the then-outstanding $1.118 billion aggregate principal amount of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 and the remaining embedded option for $616 million. This, and a partial repurchase of these notes in August 2010, resulted in no gain or loss on the notes and a total loss of $475 million on the embedded conversion option for the year ended predecessor December 31, 2010. In the first quarter of 2010, we redeemed $525 million aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes due 2011. This redemption of debt resulted in an immaterial loss. We also completed cash tender offers for the purchase of certain of our outstanding debt securities. From theses offers, we received and accepted tenders of approximately $1.107 billion aggregate principal amount of notes for $1.169 billion, resulting in an aggregate loss of $43 million. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 was $178 million or an effective tax rate of 43.6%. The effective tax rate was higher than our previously disclosed expected rate primarily due to lower income before income tax generated in the period after the CenturyLink merger. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by $264 million as a result of the tax treatment of the premium paid on our convertible debt, the March 2010 enactments of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, the tax treatment of the expenses incurred when we accelerated the vesting of certain stock-based compensation and the tax treatment of certain expenses associated CenturyLink's acquisition of us, as well our recognition in 2009 of previously unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax positions and favorable income tax settlements related to prior years. As described above, we recorded $475 million of expenses associated with extinguishing our convertible notes with cash. These expenses are not deductible for income tax purposes and, as such, they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 40.8 percentage points. Among other things, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 will disallow federal income tax deductions for retiree prescription drug benefits to the extent we receive reimbursements for those benefits under the Medicare Part D program. Although this tax increase does not take effect until 2013, under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. we recognize the full accounting impact in the period in which the laws are enacted, which increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 25.5 percentage points. On December 21, 2010, we accelerated the vesting of certain restricted stock and performance share awards issued under our Equity Incentive Plan in order to preserve certain economic benefits to our stockholders of $120 million that otherwise would have been lost in connection with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. However, certain of the expenses we recorded for this acceleration are not deductible for income tax purposes and as such they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 4.8 percentage points. 39 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2010 we incurred approximately $39 million of expenses associated with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. Certain of these expenses are not deductible for income tax purposes and, as such, they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 1.9 percentage points. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 12Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We have identified certain policies and estimates as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our past or present results of operations related to (i) business combinations; (ii) goodwill, customer relationships and other intangible assets; (iii) property, plant and equipment; (iv) pension and post-retirement benefits; (v) loss contingencies and litigation reserves; (vi) affiliates transactions; and (vii) income taxes. These policies and estimates are considered critical because they had a material impact, or they have the potential to have a material impact, on our consolidated financial statements and because they require significant judgments, assumptions or estimates. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made when accounting for the items described below are reasonable, based on information available at the time they are made. However, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Business Combinations We have accounted for CenturyLink's acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the tangible and separately identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The portion of the purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of the net tangible and separately identifiable intangible assets acquired represents goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price related to CenturyLink's acquisition of us involves estimates and judgments by our management that may be adjusted during the measurement period, but in no case beyond one year from the acquisition date. The fair values recorded are made based on management's best estimates and assumptions. In arriving at the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we consider the following generally accepted valuation approaches: the cost approach, income approach and market approach. Our estimates may also include assumptions about projected growth rates, cost of capital, effective tax rates, tax amortization periods, technology life cycles, the regulatory and legal environment and industry and economic trends. Small changes in the underlying assumptions can impact the estimates of fair value by material amounts, which can in turn materially impact our results of operations. Our acquisition resulted in the assignment of the aggregate consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The fair value of the aggregate consideration transferred exceeded the acquisition date fair value of the recorded tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities by an estimated $10.106 billion, which has been recognized as goodwill. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. As such, we have not completed our valuation analysis and calculations in sufficient detail necessary to arrive at the final estimates of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, along with the related allocations to goodwill and intangible assets. The amounts recorded related to the acquisition are preliminary and subject to revision pending the final fair valuation analysis. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations no later than the first quarter of 2012. Our final fair value determinations may be 40 Table of Contents significantly different than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets We are required to review goodwill recorded in business combinations for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or a change in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We are required to write-down the value of goodwill only in periods in which the recorded amount of goodwill exceeds the fair value. Our annual measurement date for testing goodwill impairment is September 30. The impairment testing is done at the reporting unit level; in reviewing the criteria for reporting units when allocating the goodwill resulting from CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we determined that we are one reportable unit. We early adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, during the third quarter of 2011, which permits us to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount before applying the two step goodwill impairment test. If, after completing our qualitative assessment we determine that it is more likely than not that the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, we compare the fair value to ourcarrying value (including goodwill). If the estimated fair value is greater than the carrying value, we conclude that no impairment exists. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, a second calculation is required in which the implied fair value of goodwill is compared to its carrying value. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying value, goodwill must be written down to its implied fair value. We elected to early adopt the provisions of ASU 2011-8 and perform a qualitative assessment as of our September 30 measurement date given the six month proximity of the goodwill impairment measurement date and the acquisition date resulting in the creation of the goodwill. As a result of CenturyLink's acquisition of us and the related acquisition accounting, the carrying value of our assets and liabilities equaled our fair value as of April 1, 2011. A decrease in our fair value in excess of a reduction in our carrying value will result in us having a carrying value in excess of our fair value, which may result in an impairment of our goodwill. There is significant judgment in estimating the fair value of the company. The factors that most significantly impact our estimate of fair value include forecasted cash flows and a risk adjusted discount rate. The applicable risk adjusted discount rate is impacted by the market risk free rate of return and our risk rating. The qualitative analysis included assessing the impact of changes in certain factors from April 1, 2011 (the acquisition date on which all assets and liabilities were assigned a fair value) to September 30, 2011 (the goodwill impairment testing date), including (i) changes in forecasted operating results and comparing actual results to those utilized in the April 1, 2011 fair value assignment; (ii) changes in our weighted average cost of capital from April 1, 2011 to September 30, 2011; (iii) changes in the industry or our competitive environment since the acquisition date; (iv) changes in the overall economy, our market share and interest rates since the acquisition date; (v) trends in the stock price of CenturyLink and related market capitalization and enterprise values; (vi) trends in peer companies total enterprise value metrics; (vii) control premiums paid for recent industry transactions; and (viii) additional factors such as a management turnover, changes in regulation and changes in litigation matters. Based on our qualitative assessment, we concluded that it was more likely than not that the estimated fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as of the successor date of September 30, 2011 and thus, determined it was not necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. We believe the more impactful assessments include our actual results compared to those forecasted as of the successor date of April 1, 2011 and the decline in our weighted average cost of capital since April 1, 2011. To date, our actual operating results have been comparable to those 41 Table of Contents forecasted as of April 1, 2011 and, as of December 31, 2011, we believe the forecasted results of future periods are not materially different than those used as of April 1, 2011. Our weighted average cost of capital declined 100 basis points from the April 1, 2011 valuation to the September 30, 2011 testing date, which would serve to increase the estimated fair value of the reporting unit when utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology. Based on our review of all other qualitative factors, we concluded there were no other significant economic, industry, operational or performance-related changes from April 1, 2011 to September 30, 2011 that would adversely impact our qualitative assessment. Should our future operating results not meet forecasted expectations or should our weighted average cost of capital increase significantly in the future, we may be required to assess our goodwill for impairment prior to the next required testing date of September 30, 2012. In addition, we cannot assure that other adverse conditions will not trigger future goodwill impairment testing or an impairment charge. A number of factors, many of which we have no ability to control, could affect our financial condition, operating results and business prospects and could cause our actual results to differ from the estimates and assumptions we employed in our goodwill impairment testing. These factors include, but are not limited to, (i) further weakening in the overall economy; (ii) a significant decline in our parent's, CenturyLink, stock price and resulting market capitalization; (iii) changes in the discount rate; (iv) successful efforts by our competitors to gain market share in our markets; (v) adverse changes as a result of regulatory actions; (vi) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the overall business climate; and (vii) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of our reporting unit. We will continue to monitor certain events that impact our operations to determine if an interim assessment of goodwill impairment should be performed prior to the next required testing date of September 30, 2012. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired since the acquisition date is stated at original cost plus the estimated value of any associated legally or contractually required retirement obligations. We perform annual internal reviews to evaluate the reasonableness of the depreciable lives for our property, plant and equipment. Our reviews utilize models that take into account actual usage, replacement history and assumptions about technology evolution to estimate the remaining life of our asset base. The changes in our estimates incorporated as a result of our most recent review did not have a material impact on the level of our depreciation expense. Due to rapid changes in technology and the competitive environment, selecting the estimated economic life of telecommunications plant, equipment and software requires a significant amount of judgment. We regularly review data on utilization of equipment, asset retirements and salvage values to determine adjustments to our depreciation rates. The effect of a one year increase or decrease in the estimated remaining useful lives of our property, plant and equipment would have decreased depreciation by approximately $250 million or increased depreciation by approximately $360 million, respectively. We periodically perform evaluations of the recoverability of the carrying value of our long-lived assets using gross undiscounted cash flow projections. These evaluations require identification of the lowest level of identifiable, largely independent, cash flows for purposes of grouping assets and liabilities subject to review. The cash flow projections include long-term forecasts of revenue growth, gross margins and capital expenditures. All of these items require significant judgment and assumptions. 42 Table of Contents Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits We sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan (referred to as our pension plan) for substantially all employees. In addition to this tax qualified pension plan, we also maintain a non-qualified pension plan for certain eligible highly compensated employees. We maintain post-retirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain eligible retirees. Pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits attributed to eligible employees' service during the year, as well as interest on benefit obligations, are accrued currently. Prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses are generally recognized as a component of net periodic expense over one of the following periods: (i) the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately eight years; (ii) the average remaining life of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately 20 years; or (iii) the term of the collective bargaining agreements, as applicable. Pension and post-retirement benefit expenses are recognized over the period in which the employee renders service and becomes eligible to receive benefits as determined using the projected unit credit method. In computing the pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits expenses and obligations, the most significant assumptions we make include discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, health care trend rates and our evaluation of the legal basis for plan amendments. The plan benefits covered by collective bargaining agreements as negotiated with our employees' unions can also significantly impact the amount of expense, benefit obligations and pension assets that we record. The discount rate is the rate at which we believe we could effectively settle the benefit obligations as of the end of the year. We selected the discount based on a cash-flow matching analysis using hypothetical yield curves developed by an actuary firm from U.S. corporate bonds rated high quality and projections of the future benefit payments that constitute the projected benefit obligation for the plans. This process establishes the uniform discount rate that produces the same present value of the estimated future benefit payments, as is generated by discounting each year's benefit payments by a spot rate applicable to that year. The spot rates used in this process are derived from a yield curve created from yields on the 60th to 90th percentile of U.S. high quality bonds. The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return we expect to earn on the plans' assets. The rate of return is determined by the strategic allocation of plan assets and the long-term risk and return forecast for each asset class. The forecasts for each asset class are generated primarily from an analysis of the long-term expectations of various third party investment management organizations. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. To compute the expected return on pension and post-retirement benefit plan assets, we apply an expected rate of return to the fair value of the pension plan assets and to the fair value of the post-retirement benefit plan assets adjusted for contribution timing and for projected benefit payments to be made from the plan assets. Annual market volatility for these assets is reflected in the subsequent year's net periodic combined benefits expense. Changes in any of the above factors could impact operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations as well as the value of the liability and accumulated other comprehensive income of stockholder's equity (deficit) on our consolidated balance sheets. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reflected as a reduction to our pension and post-retirement benefit expense. If our assumed expected rates of return for 2011 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $61 million. If our assumed discount rates for 2011 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have decreased by $32 million and our projected benefit obligation would have increased by 43 Table of Contents approximately $1 billion. An increase of 100 basis points in the initial healthcare cost trend rate would have increased our post-retirement benefit expense by $3 million and increased our projected post-retirement benefit obligation by $67 million. The trusts for the pension and post-retirement benefits plans hold investments in equities, fixed income, real estate and other assets such as private equity assets. The assets held by these trusts are reflected at estimated fair value as of December 31, 2011. For additional information on our trust investments, see Note 8Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Loss Contingencies and Litigation Reserves We are involved in several material legal proceedings, as described in more detail in "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of this report. We assess potential losses in relation to these and other pending or threatened tax and legal matters. For matters not related to income taxes, if a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we recognize an expense for the estimated loss. To the extent these estimates are more or less than the actual liability resulting from the resolution of these matters, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. If the differences are material, our consolidated financial statements could be materially impacted. If a loss is considered reasonably possible, we disclose any determinable estimate of the loss if material but we do not recognize any expense for the potential loss. For matters related to income taxes, if the impact of an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority, then we recognize a benefit for the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained. No portion of an uncertain tax position will be recognized if the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Though the validity of any tax position is a matter of tax law, the body of statutory, regulatory and interpretive guidance on the application of the law is complex and often ambiguous. Because of this, whether a tax position will ultimately be sustained may be uncertain. The overall tax liability recorded for uncertain tax positions as of the successor date of December 31, 2011 and the predecessor date of December 31, 2010, considers the anticipated utilization of any applicable tax credits and NOLs. To the extent we have recorded tax liabilities that are more or less than the actual liability that ultimately results from the resolution of an uncertain tax position, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. Also, as we become aware of new interpretations of relevant tax laws and as we discuss our interpretations with taxing authorities, we may in the future change our assessments of the sustainability of an uncertain tax position or of the amounts that may be sustained upon audit. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made in accounting for these matters are reasonable, based on information currently available. However, as our assessments change and as uncertain tax positions are resolved, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. Affiliates Transactions We record intercompany charges at the amounts billed to us by our affiliates. Regulatory rules require certain expenses to be recorded at market price or fully distributed cost. Our compliance with regulations is subject to review by regulators. Adjustments to intercompany charges that result from these reviews are recorded in the period they become known. Because of the significance of the services we provide to our affiliates and our other affiliates transactions, the results of operations, financial position and cash flows presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations, financial position and cash flows we would have achieved had we operated as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented. 44 Table of Contents We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates computer system development and support services. We also purchase services from our affiliates including telecommunications services and marketing and employee-related support services. In the normal course of business, we transfer assets and liabilities to and from CenturyLink and its affiliates based on carrying value. We have recorded $70 million of non-cash dividends associated with asset transfers to CenturyLink during the successor nine months ended December 31, 2011 Income Taxes Since CenturyLink's acquisition of us on April 1, 2011, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. Under CenturyLink's tax allocation policy, CenturyLink treats our consolidated results as if we were a separate taxpayer. The policy requires us to pay our tax liabilities in cash based upon our separate return taxable income, after the utilization of our NOLs carryforward. We are also included in the combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same payment and allocation policy applies. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts for tax consequences deferred to future periods. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflecting future tax consequences attributable to tax NOLs, tax credit carryforwards and differences between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and the tax bases of those assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are computed using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred taxes often involves an exercise of judgment related to the realization of tax basis. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our assessment that tax positions taken and the resulting tax basis, are more likely than not to be sustained if they are audited by taxing authorities. Also, assessing tax rates that we expect to apply and determining the years when the temporary differences are expected to affect taxable income requires judgment about the future apportionment of our income among the states in which we operate. These and other matters involve the exercise of significant judgment. Any changes in our practices or judgments involved in the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities as described above. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred income tax assets to amounts that we believe are more likely than not to be recovered. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine whether adjustments to our valuation allowance are appropriate. In making this evaluation, we rely on our recent history of pre-tax earnings, estimated timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets and our forecasts of future earnings, the latter two of which involve the exercise of significant judgment. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, we concluded that it was more likely than not that we would realize the majority of our deferred tax assets; therefore, our valuation allowance did not require material adjustments. If forecasts of future earnings and the nature and estimated timing of future deductions and benefits change in the future, we may determine that a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets is appropriate, which could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. See Note 12Income Taxes for additional information. 45 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2011-08, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment . This update simplifies the goodwill impairment assessment by allowing a company to first review qualitative factors to determine the likelihood of whether the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step goodwill impairment test. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, a company would not be required to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test for that reporting unit. This update is effective for interim and annual goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. This ASU, which we adopted during the third quarter of 2011, did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements as our qualitative analysis as of September 30, 2011, indicated that more likely than not, the fair value of our single reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as of that date. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. This update requires the use of the relative selling price method when allocating revenue in these types of arrangements. This method requires a vendor to use its best estimate of selling price if neither vendor specific objective evidence nor third party evidence of selling price exists when evaluating multiple deliverable arrangements. This standard update was effective for us on January 1, 2011 and we have adopted it prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified after January 1, 2011. This standard update has not had and is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements since the allocation of revenue has historically been based upon the relative fair value of the elements as determined by reference to vendor specific objective evidence of fair value when the elements have been sold on a stand-alone basis. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview On April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. As such, factors relating to, or affecting, CenturyLink's liquidity and capital resources could have material impacts on us, including impacts on our credit ratings, our access to capital markets and changes in the financial market's perception of us. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries that include lines of credit, affiliate obligations, capital contributions and dividends. As part of these cash management arrangements, affiliates provide lines of credit to certain other affiliates. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit and intercompany obligations vary from time to time and are classified as short-term loans. Under these arrangements, the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink as a short-term affiliate loan. From time to time we may declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink, which would reduce the amount of this loan. Given our upgrade to an investment grade rating on April 1, 2011, our debt covenants do not limit the amount of dividends we can pay to CenturyLink. Given our cash management arrangement with CenturyLink and the resulting amounts due to us from CenturyLink, a significant component of our liquidity is dependent upon CenturyLink's ability to repay its obligation to us. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $238 million compared to $2.722 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our working capital deficit decreased $2.484 billion primarily due to net income before depreciation, amortization and income taxes as well as net proceeds from our long term debt issuances. It also decreased due our debt refinancing activities completed in October 2011, which were partially offset by capital expenditures and dividends declared to CenturyLink. 46 Table of Contents Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Subject to market conditions, from time to time we expect to continue to issue debt securities through our QC subsidiary to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned QC by the three major credit rating agencies, among other factors. Until April 1, 2011, we had a revolving credit facility, which made available to us $1.035 billion of additional credit subject to certain restrictions. That credit facility was terminated in conjunction with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. In January 2011, CenturyLink entered into a new four-year revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") that allows CenturyLink to borrow up to $1.700 billion including $400 million of letter of credit capacity, for the general corporate purposes of itself and its subsidiaries. QCII and another one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, Qwest Services Corporation ("QSC"), are guarantors of the Credit Facility. CenturyLink also maintains a separate letter of credit arrangement with a financial institution to which we have access. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, CenturyLink had approximately $1.4 billion and $31 million available for future use under the Credit Facility and the separate letter of credit arrangement, respectively. On October 4, 2011, QC issued $950 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.75% Notes due 2021 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $927 million. The notes are our senior unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of their principal amount or the present value of the remaining principal and interest payments discounted at a U.S. Treasury interest rate specified in the indenture agreement plus 50 basis points. In October 2011, QC used the net proceeds from this offering, together with the $557 million of net proceeds received on September 21, 2011 from the debt issuance described below and available cash, to redeem the $1.500 billion aggregate principal amount of its 8.875% Notes due 2012 and to pay all related fees and expenses, which resulted in an immaterial loss. On September 21, 2011, QC issued $575 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Notes due 2051 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $557 million. The notes are senior unsecured obligations of QC and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after September 15, 2016 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. On June 8, 2011, QC issued $661 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.375% Notes due 2051 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $642 million. The notes are unsecured obligations of QC and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after June 1, 2016 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. QC used the net proceeds, together with available cash, to redeem $825 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.875% Notes due 2011 and to pay related fees and expenses. We were in compliance with all provisions and covenants of our debt agreements as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. See Note 4Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information about our long-term debt. 47 Table of Contents Future Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our estimated future contractual obligations as of the successor date of December 31, 2011: Long-term debt, including current maturities and capital lease obligations $ 117 861 1,985 992 815 7,061 11,831 Interest on long-term debt and capital leases(1) 831 811 742 632 538 7,054 10,608 Operating leases 174 150 133 109 87 604 1,257 Purchase commitments(2) 89 67 53 49 45 145 448 Post-retirement benefit obligation 71 71 70 69 120 1,195 1,596 Non-qualified pension obligations 3 2 2 2 2 22 33 Other 4 5 2 3 1 98 113 Total future contractual obligations(3) $ 1,289 1,967 2,987 1,856 1,608 16,179 25,886 (1) Interest paid in all years may differ due to future refinancing of debt. Interest on our floating rate debt was calculated for all years using the rates effective at December 31, 2011. (2) We have various long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments for advertising and promotion services, including advertising and marketing at sports arenas and other venues and events. We also have service related commitments with various vendors for data processing, technical and software support services. Future payments under certain service contracts will vary depending on our actual usage. In the table above we estimated payments for these service contracts based on the level of services we expect to receive. (3) The table does not include: our open purchase orders as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. These purchase orders are generally at fair value, and are generally cancelable without penalty; other long-term liabilities, such as accruals for legal matters and other taxes that are not contractual obligations by nature. We cannot determine with any degree of reliability the years in which these liabilities might ultimately settle; cash funding requirements for pension benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plans are paid through trusts. Cash funding requirements for the trusts are not included in this table as we are not able to reliably estimate required contributions to the trust. Our funding projections are discussed further below; certain post-retirement benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Not all of our post-retirement benefit obligation amount is a contractual obligation and only the portion that we believe is a contractual obligation is reported in the table. See additional information on our benefits plans in Note 8Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report; contract termination fees. These fees are non-recurring payments, the timing and payment of which, if any, is uncertain. In the ordinary course of business and to optimize our cost structure, we enter into contracts with terms greater than one year to use the network facilities of other carriers and to purchase other goods and services. Our contracts to use other carriers' network facilities generally have no minimum volume requirements and are based on an interrelationship of volumes and discounted rates. Assuming we exited these contracts in 2012, the contract termination fees would be approximately $819 million. Under the same assumption, termination 48 Table of Contents fees for these contracts to purchase goods and services would be $53 million. In the normal course of business, we believe the payment of these fees is likely to be remote; and potential indemnification obligations to counterparties in certain agreements entered into in the normal course of business. The nature and terms of these arrangements vary. Historically, we have not incurred significant costs related to performance under these types of arrangements. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash generated by operating activities and regulatory considerations. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services primarily our broadband services. In 2012, we anticipate that our fiber investment, which includes fiber to the tower, or FTTT, will be similar to that spent in 2011. FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a telecommunication provider's broadband interconnection points to cellular towers. FTTT allows for the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. When we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink on April 1, 2011, we remeasured our plans and recognized liabilities for the accounting unfunded status of pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations of $490 million and $2.522 billion, respectively. See Note 8Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust. Cash funding requirements can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, discount rates, changes in plan benefits and funding laws and regulations. Although potentially significant in the aggregate, we currently expect that plan contributions in 2013 and beyond will decrease from the 2011 contribution amount. However, the actual amount of required plan contributions in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, the fair value of the trust assets was $643 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately four years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected four year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. 49 Table of Contents Historical Information The following table summarizes cash flow activities: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,152 777 2,929 3,367 (438 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,868 ) (408 ) (2,276 ) (1,488 ) 788 Net cash used in financing activities (660 ) (317 ) (977 ) (3,913 ) (2,936 ) Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to decreased cash payments received from customers as a result of decreased revenues in the combined year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash used in investing activities increased in the combined year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to increases in short-term affiliate loans resulting from the majority of our cash balance being transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink. Net cash used in financing activities decreased during the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to $1.351 billion more in net proceeds from the issuance of debt. The decrease is also due to $774 million less payments of long-term debt and the $640 million settlement of embedded option in convertible debt which occurred during the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. Certain Matters Related to CenturyLink's Acquisition of us Effective after CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. CenturyLink is in the process of developing a post-acquisition intercompany agreement for allocation of consolidated income tax liabilities. We will continue to account for income tax expense on a stand-alone basis. We are also included in certain combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same accounting will apply. As the successor date of December 31, 2011, we had paid certain costs that were associated with the CenturyLink acquisition. These costs include compensation costs comprised of retention bonuses and severance. The final amounts and timing of the compensation costs to be paid is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that continue to be made as part of the continuing integration. These amounts may be material. In accounting for the CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we recorded our debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $8.688 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value our debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $672 million, which is being recognized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining terms of the debt, of which $150 million was recognized in 2011. 50 Table of Contents Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. From time to time over the past several years, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates; however, as of the successor date of December 31, 2011 we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and implements strategies to manage the exposure. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, we have approximately $11.9 billion (excluding capital lease and other obligations) of long-term debt outstanding, 94% of which bears interest at fixed rates and is therefore not exposed to interest rate risk. We also held $750 million of floating rate debt exposed to changes in the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR). A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in LIBOR relative to this debt would decrease our annual pre-tax earnings by $8 million. Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those presented above if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements or in the Future Contractual Obligations table above or (ii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above.