Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report. Financial and Operational Highlights The table below provides a summary of some of our financial highlights. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating results: Operating revenue $ 12,311 $ 13,475 $ 13,778 Operating expenses 10,336 11,378 12,022 Income before income taxes 903 1,051 620 Net income 662 652 2,890 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 1.57 Diluted $ 0.38 $ 0.37 $ 1.50 Cash flow data: Cash provided by operating activities $ 3,307 $ 2,931 $ 3,026 Expenditures for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software 1,409 1,777 1,669 Dividends paid 551 556 December 31, 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Balance sheet data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,406 $ 565 Total debt (1) 14,200 13,555 Working capital deficit (2) (483 ) (883 ) Total stockholders deficit (1,178 ) (1,386 ) 1 Table of Contents (1) Total debt is the sum of current portion of long-term borrowings and long-term borrowingsnet on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations in Item 7 of this report. (2) Working capital deficit is the amount by which our current liabilities exceed our current assets. The table below presents some of our operational metrics. December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) Operational metrics: Total broadband subscribers 2,974 2,847 2,611 Total video subscribers 880 798 649 Total wireless subscribers 850 717 824 Total access lines (1) 10,266 11,565 12,789 (1) Access lines include approximately 403,000, 485,000 and 518,000 of affiliate access lines as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operations We operate our business through the following three segments: business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets. We group our products and services among three major categories, including: strategic services, which include primarily private line, broadband, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, video, voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, and Verizon Wireless services; legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, access, traditional wide area network, or WAN, and integrated services digital network, or ISDN, services; and data integration. We also sold Qwest-branded wireless services until October 31, 2009, and included those services as a fourth major category for 2009 and prior years. You can find more detailed information about our segments and major product and service categories below under the heading Products, Services and Customers. 2 Table of Contents Our revenue by segment, including a breakdown of our revenue by major product and service category, is as follows: Years Ended December 31, % of Operating Revenue 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) Operating revenue by category: Business markets: Strategic services $ 1,594 $ 1,419 $ 1,188 13 % 10 % 9 % Legacy services 1,942 2,109 2,248 16 % 16 % 16 % Total strategic and legacy services 3,536 3,528 3,436 29 % 26 % 25 % Data integration 557 571 476 4 % 4 % 3 % Total business markets revenue 4,093 4,099 3,912 33 % 30 % 28 % Mass markets: Strategic services $ 1,399 $ 1,335 $ 1,150 11 % 10 % 8 % Legacy services 3,508 3,946 4,294 29 % 29 % 31 % Total strategic and legacy services 4,907 5,281 5,444 40 % 39 % 39 % Qwest-branded wireless services (1) 112 459 535 1 % 4 % 4 % Total mass markets revenue 5,019 5,740 5,979 41 % 43 % 43 % Wholesale markets: Strategic services $ 1,222 $ 1,227 $ 1,196 10 % 9 % 9 % Legacy services 1,621 2,044 2,313 13 % 15 % 17 % Total wholesale markets revenue 2,843 3,271 3,509 23 % 24 % 26 % Total segment revenue 11,955 13,110 13,400 97 % 97 % 97 % Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 356 365 378 3 % 3 % 3 % Total operating revenue $ 12,311 $ 13,475 $ 13,778 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) As noted above, we stopped selling Qwest-branded wireless services on October 31, 2009. The decrease in Qwest-branded wireless services revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. We categorize net revenue from Verizon Wireless services as strategic services revenue. Substantially all of our revenue comes from customers located in the United States, and substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. For additional financial information about our segments including total segment income for each of our segments, see Note 16Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. We do not allocate our assets among our segments and therefore do not report total assets by segment. Products, Services and Customers Our products and services include a variety of data, Internet and voice services. Through our strategic partnerships with DIRECTV and Verizon Wireless, we also offer satellite digital television and wireless services to customers in our local service area. As noted above, we operate our business through three segments: business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets. We group our products and services among three major categories: strategic services, legacy services and data integration. Revenue from our strategic services represented 34% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, and these services are our fastest growing source of revenue. We also sold Qwest-branded wireless services until October 31, 2009 and included those services as a fourth major category for 2009 and prior years. 3 Table of Contents We offer our business markets and mass markets customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. For example, we offer our mass markets customers integrated and unlimited local and long-distance services. These customers can also bundle two or more services such as broadband, video, voice and Verizon Wireless services . We believe these customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic broadband cables and other equipment. The majority of our network is located in our local service area. Within our local service area, our network serves approximately 10.3 million access lines in 14 states and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. Business Markets Our business markets customers include enterprise and government customers. Enterprise customers consist of local, national and global businesses. Described below are the key products and services that we sell to our business markets customers. We sell these products and services through direct sales, partnership relationships and arrangements with third-party sales agents. Strategic Services Our business markets customers use our strategic services to access the Internet and Internet-based services, as well as to connect to private networks and to conduct internal and external data transmissions such as transferring files from one location to another. We also provide value-added services and integrated solutions that make communications more secure, reliable and efficient for our business markets customers. These services include primarily private line, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, broadband and VoIP services. Our marketing and sales efforts with respect to business markets customers increasingly focus on these growth services. Private line . Our business markets customers use private line as a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites. Qwest iQ Networking . Qwest iQ Networking is a Multi-Protocol Label Switching, or MPLS,-based service. MPLS is standards-approved data networking technology, compatible with existing asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay networks that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video, as well as service level agreements that guarantee bandwidth. MPLS is deployed by many telecommunications providers and large businesses for use in their own national networks. This technology allows network operators a great deal of flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks. Hosting . Hosting includes providing space, power, bandwidth and managed services in data centers. We also offer a variety of server and application management, back-up, disaster recovery, and professional web design services. We currently operate 16 hosting centers, or CyberCenters SM , in 12 metropolitan areas. Broadband . We offer our business markets customers broadband services that allow customers to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at higher speeds than dial-up access. Substantially all of our broadband customers are located within our local service area. VoIP . Our business markets customers use VoIP, a real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates in the Internet protocol over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN. 4 Table of Contents Legacy Services Our business markets legacy services include local, long-distance, traditional WAN services (including ATM, frame relay, dedicated Internet access, or DIA, and virtual private network, or VPN) and ISDN services. We originate, transport and terminate local services within our local service area. Local services consist primarily of basic local exchange and switching services. Long-distance services include domestic and international long-distance services and toll free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that either terminate or originate with our customers in the United States. Data Integration We also provide data integration to our business markets customers. Data integration involves the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and other business customers. Mass Markets Our mass markets customers include consumers and small businesses. Described below are the key products and services that we sell to our mass markets customers. We sell these products and services using a variety of channels, including our sales and call centers, our website, telemarketing and retail stores and kiosks. Strategic Services Our mass markets customers generally use our strategic services to access the Internet, Internet-based services and video services. These strategic services include primarily broadband, video and Verizon Wireless services. Our marketing and sales efforts with respect to our mass markets customers increasingly focus on these growth services. Broadband . Our broadband services allow customers to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at higher speeds than dial-up access. Substantially all of our broadband customers are located within our local service area. Video . Our video services include primarily satellite digital television. These services are offered under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name. Verizon Wireless services . Our wireless services are offered under an arrangement with Verizon Wireless that allows us to market, sell, and bill for its services under its brand name, primarily to customers who buy these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other products and services. We began selling these services in the third quarter of 2008 under a five-year agreement entered into in April 2008. Legacy Services We offer our mass markets customers legacy services, consisting primarily of local and long-distance services. We originate, transport and terminate local services within our local service area. Local services consist of primarily basic local exchange and switching services. We also provide enhanced features with our local exchange services, such as caller ID, call waiting, call return, 3-way calling, call forwarding and voice mail. Wholesale Markets Our wholesale markets customers are other telecommunications carriers and resellers that purchase our products and services in large quantities to sell to their customers or that purchase our access services that allow them to connect their customers and their networks to our network. 5 Table of Contents Described below are the key products and services that we sell to our wholesale markets customers. We sell these products and services through direct sales, partnership relationships and arrangements with third-party sales agents. Strategic Services Nearly all of the strategic services revenue we generate from wholesale markets customers is from private line services. Our wholesale customers use our private line services to connect their customers and their networks to our network. We also provide private line services to wireless service providers that use our fiber-optic services to support their next generation wireless networks. Legacy Services Our wholesale markets legacy services include long-distance, access, local and traditional WAN services. Local services include primarily unbundled network elements, or UNEs, which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers. Our local services also include network transport, billing services and access to our network by other telecommunications providers and wireless carriers. These services allow other telecommunications companies to provide telecommunications services that originate or terminate on our network. Long-distance services include domestic and international long-distance services. Access services include fees that we charge to other telecommunications providers to connect their customers and their networks to our network so that they can provide long-distance, transport, data, wireless and Internet services. Other We also generate other operating revenue from USF surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. We centrally manage this revenue, and consequently it is not assigned to any of our three segments described above. The majority of our real estate properties are located in our local service area. Importance, Duration and Effect of Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights Either directly or through our subsidiaries, we own or have licenses to various patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and other intellectual property necessary to conduct our business. We believe it is unlikely that we could lose any intellectual property rights that are material to our business. Competition We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect intense competition to continue. Regulatory developments and technological advances have increased opportunities for alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. In addition, the telecommunications industry has experienced some consolidation and several of our competitors have consolidated with other telecommunications providers. The resulting consolidated companies are generally larger, have more financial and business resources and have greater geographical reach than we do. Business Markets As discussed below, competition for many of our business markets services is based in part on bundled offerings. We believe business markets customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. As such, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. 6 Table of Contents Strategic Services In providing strategic services to our business markets customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. We also compete with smaller telecommunications providers, regional providers and wireless providers, as well as large integrators that provide customers with data services thereby taking traffic off of our network. Competition for business markets strategic services is driven by price and bundled offerings. Private line and Qwest iQ Networking services also compete on network reach and reliability, while hosting, broadband and VoIP services also compete on bandwidth and quality. Legacy Services Although our status as an incumbent local exchange carrier, or ILEC, continues to provide us some advantages in providing local services in our local service area, we continue to face significant competition in this market. In providing local services, we compete primarily with competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, and competition is based primarily on price and bundled offerings. We also face competition from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and from broadband service providers, including cable companies, as a result of product substitution. In providing long-distance services to our business markets customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. These competitors often have significant name recognition in the national long-distance markets and also have substantial financial and technological resources that allow them to compete more effectively against us. In addition, as some national telecommunications providers have consolidated to form larger companies, their name recognition and financial and technological resources have increased. We also increasingly compete with wireless providers and broadband service providers, including cable companies and VoIP providers. Competition in the long-distance market is based primarily on price and product bundled offerings. Some of our competitors are subject to fewer regulations than we are, which affords them competitive advantages against us. Under federal regulations, telecommunication providers are able to interconnect their networks with ours, resell our services or lease separate parts of our network in order to provide competitive services. Generally, we have been required to provide these functions and services at wholesale rates, which allows our competitors to sell their services at lower prices. However, these rules have been and continue to be reviewed by state and federal regulators. For additional discussion of regulations affecting our business, see Regulation below. In addition, wireless and broadband service providers generally are subject to less or no regulation, which may allow them to operate with lower costs than we are able to operate. In providing other legacy services, such as traditional WAN services and ISDN, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers and cable companies. Competition for these other legacy services is based primarily on price and bundled offerings. Data Integration In providing data integration to our business markets customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings, and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. We provide some of our data integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing strategic and legacy services, as discussed above. 7 Table of Contents Mass Markets As discussed below, competition for many of our mass markets services is based in part on bundled offerings. We believe mass markets customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. As such, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. Strategic Services In providing broadband services to our mass markets customers, we compete primarily with cable companies and other broadband service providers. Competition is based on price, bandwidth, network reach, service, promotions and bundled offerings. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable companies. Competition is based on price, content, quality, promotions and bundled offerings. Many of our competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are, and therefore they are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations. The market for wireless services is highly competitive. In reselling Verizon Wireless services, we compete with national and regional carriers, as well as other sales agents and resellers. We market and sell wireless services to customers who are buying these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other services. Competition is based on coverage area, price, services, features, handsets, technical quality and customer service. Legacy Services Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us some advantages in providing local services in our local service area, we increasingly face significant competition in this market. An increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable and wireless for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has led to an increase in the number and type of competitors within our industry and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater competition in providing local and long-distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and from broadband service providers, including cable companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies. Competition for mass markets customers is based primarily on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. In addition, we and our competitors continue to develop and deploy more innovative product bundling, enhanced features and combined billing options in an effort to retain and gain customers. While we rely on reseller or sales agency arrangements to provide some of our bundled services, some of our competitors are able to provide all of their bundled services directly, which may provide them a competitive advantage. We believe our mass markets customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. Similar to the competitive market for business markets customers, many of our competitors for mass markets customers are subject to fewer regulations than we are and are therefore afforded competitive advantages against us, as discussed above. Wholesale Markets Strategic Services In providing private line services to our wholesale markets customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. Additionally we are experiencing increased competition for private line services from cable companies. A small number of our wholesale markets customers are important contributors to this segments revenue. 8 Table of Contents Competition for private line services is based primarily on price, as well as network reach, bandwidth, quality, reliability and customer service. Although we are experiencing intense competition in this market, we believe we are favorably positioned due to our strong presence in our local service area. Legacy Services The market for wholesale legacy services is highly competitive. In providing long-distance services to our wholesale customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers. Competition in the wholesale long-distance market is based primarily on price; however customer service, quality and reliability can also be influencing factors. Our resale and UNE customers are experiencing the same competition with CLECs for local services customers as we are, as discussed in mass markets and business markets above. We also compete with some of our own wholesale markets customers that are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By doing so, these competitors take traffic off of our network. We provide access services to other telecommunications providers to connect their customers and their networks to our network so that they can provide long-distance, transport, data, wireless and Internet services. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies, resellers and wireless service providers. Our access service customers face competitive pressures in their businesses that are similar to those we face with respect to strategic and legacy services. To the extent that these competitive pressures result in decreased demand for their services, demand for our access services also declines. Regulation We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. These agencies issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition; they set the rates that telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic; and they have established funds (called universal service funds) to support provision of services to high-cost areas. In most states, local voice service, switched and special access services, and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. In addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with utility commissions in most states. Laws and regulations in many states restrict the manner in which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities, and many mergers and acquisitions require approval by the FCC and some state commissions. In this section, we describe potentially significant regulatory changes that we face, including: state commission review of the rates we charge for local telephone service and FCC proposals to reform universal service funds, change the rates carriers charge each other for exchanging traffic, and change the rates we can charge for special access services. Interconnection In our local service area, we are required by law to interconnect with other telecommunications providers and to allow competing local exchange carriers to resell our services and use our facilities as unbundled network elements. State commissions periodically conduct proceedings to change the rates we are allowed to charge for these services, and those proceedings can result in changes to our wholesale markets revenue. The FCC and state commissions are also considering designating additional geographic areas where we would be allowed to charge higher, market-based rates for these services. Intercarrier Compensation and Access Pricing The FCC has initiated a number of proceedings that could affect the rates and charges for services that we sell to or purchase from other carriers and for traffic that we exchange with other carriers. The FCC has been considering comprehensive reform of these charges, known as intercarrier compensation, in a proceeding that 9 Table of Contents could result in fundamental changes in the charges we collect from and pay to other carriers. This proceeding may not be completed for some time. State commissions also periodically open proceedings to change the rates that we or other local carriers charge to terminate and originate intrastate calls. The FCC, state commissions and federal courts are also reviewing intercarrier compensation issues relating to IP services, including whether we should pay intercarrier compensation to carriers for traffic bound for Internet service providers that cross local exchange boundaries (known as VNXX traffic) and whether VoIP providers must pay carrier access charges. In 2009, we received approximately $400 million in switched access revenue (which includes a significant amount of related services not subject to these proceedings), and we paid a greater amount to other carriers for switched access. The FCC also has an open proceeding to examine whether rates should be reduced for high-capacity facilities that local exchange carriers, like Qwest, sell to other companies. Some parties have proposed changes to the FCCs rules that would significantly reduce our revenues from these facilities. This proceeding remains pending before the FCC. In 2009, we received approximately $1.4 billion for interstate special access services (excluding digital subscriber line), but not all of that revenue is at issue in the FCCs special access proceeding. Most proposals submitted in the proceeding would impact only lower-capacity services and not higher-capacity fiber-based services, and many proposals would impact services only in geographic areas where the FCC has granted us pricing flexibility. If the FCC does mandate lower prices, we will benefit from lower prices for the special access services we purchase from other carriers, which totaled $558 million in 2009. Regulatory proceedings are pending in numerous jurisdictions regarding rural local exchange carriers that have inflated the demand for their terminating services by entering into arrangements with companies providing free calling services. We have disputed and withheld payment on the charges billed by many of these rural carriers. The FCC released an order in November 2009 ruling in our favor that a rural providers interstate switched access tariffs did not apply to this traffic. In another case brought by us against several rural carriers, the Iowa Utilities Board issued an order in our favor in September 2009 ruling that the rural carriers intrastate switched access tariffs did not apply to this traffic. Other proceedings addressing these matters are pending before the FCC, the Minnesota state commission and federal courts. Universal Service The FCC maintains a number of universal service programs that are intended to ensure affordable telephone service for all Americans, including low-income consumers and those living in rural areas that are costly to serve, and ensure access to advanced telecommunications services for schools, libraries and rural health care providers. These programs, which totaled over $7 billion annually in recent years, are funded through contributions by interstate telecommunications carriers, which are generally passed through to their end-users. The FCC is actively considering a new contribution methodology, which, if adopted, could significantly increase our universal service contributions. While we would have the right to pass these charges on to our customers, the additional charges could affect the demand for certain telecommunications services. In 2009, we received approximately $66 million in federal universal service high-cost subsidies. The FCC is actively considering changes in the structure and distribution methodology of its universal service programs. Additionally, in 2005, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals remanded the FCCs universal service high cost rules for failure to comply with federal law, and the FCC has an open proceeding to consider how to comply with the order. The FCC is also considering whether to reconfigure its universal service funds to support broadband services. The resolution of these proceedings ultimately could affect the amount of universal service support we receive. In 2009, we received approximately $87 million in state universal service high-cost subsidies. State commissions and legislatures may review and alter their respective state universal service programs, and, as a result, our distributions may be affected. 10 Table of Contents Network Neutrality In October 2009, the FCC initiated a proceeding to consider adopting network neutrality rules applicable to providers of broadband Internet access services. In general, network neutrality refers to government policies designed to safeguard and promote an open Internet. Among other things, network neutrality rules could affect our ability to charge for enhanced or prioritized broadband Internet access services. This proceeding remains pending before the FCC. Employees December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 Management employees 14,581 15,792 16,171 (1,211 ) (379 ) (8 )% (2 )% Occupational employees 15,557 17,145 20,672 (1,588 ) (3,527 ) (9 )% (17 )% Total employees 30,138 32,937 36,843 (2,799 ) (3,906 ) (8 )% (11 )% Our occupational employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the Communications Workers of America, or CWA, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, or IBEW. Our current four-year agreements with the CWA and IBEW expire on October 6, 2012. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in Risk FactorsOther Risks Relating to Qwest in Item 1A of this report. Website Access and Important Investor Information Our website address is www.qwest.com , and we routinely post important investor information in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.qwest.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the Investor Relations section of our website under the heading SEC Filings. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We have adopted written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder and the New York Stock Exchange rules. In the event that we make any changes to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our code of conduct applicable to our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K within four business days of such event. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of our guidelines on significant governance issues and the charters of our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee and nominating and governance committee, are available in the Corporate Governance section of our website at investor.qwest.com/corporate-governance or in print to any stockholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at Qwest Communications International Inc., 1801 California Street, Denver, Colorado 80202. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements about our financial condition, operating results and business. These statements include, among others: statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our business activities and certain transactions we have completed, such as increased revenue, decreased expenses and avoided expenses and expenditures; and 11 Table of Contents statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other matters that are not historical facts. These statements may be made expressly in this document or may be incorporated by reference to other documents we have filed or will file with the SEC. You can find many of these statements by looking for words such as may, would, could, should, plan, believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, or similar expressions used in this document or in documents incorporated by reference in this document. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by us in those statements. Some of these risks are described in Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. These risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to review or confirm analysts expectations or estimates or to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Affecting Our Business Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We are facing greater competition from cable companies, wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other factors, we continue to lose access lines. We are continually evaluating our responses to these competitive pressures. Some of our more recent responses are expanded broadband capabilities and strategic partnerships. We also remain focused on customer service and providing customers with simple and integrated solutions, including, among other things, product bundles and packages. However, we may not be successful in these efforts. We may not be able to distinguish our offerings and service levels from those of our competitors, and we may not be successful in integrating our product offerings, especially products for which we act as a reseller or sales agent such as wireless and video services. If these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient, we are otherwise unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly without corresponding cost reductions, this would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, could negatively affect our business. While it is often difficult for us to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. In addition, as discussed below under the heading Risks Affecting our Liquidity, due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Consolidation among participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry has experienced some consolidation, and several of our competitors have consolidated with other telecommunications providers. This consolidation results in competitors that are larger and better financed and affords our competitors increased resources and greater geographical reach, thereby enabling those competitors to compete more effectively against us. We have experienced and expect further increased pressures as a result of this consolidation and in turn have been and may continue to be forced to respond with lower profit margin product offerings and pricing plans in an effort to retain and attract customers. These pressures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. 13 Table of Contents Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, and our ability to execute our business plans and compete depends upon our ability to develop and deploy new products and services. The development and deployment of new products and services could also require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any inability to keep up with changes in technology and markets could also adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers, including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services, our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, and defending against these claims could adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to conduct business. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, on the trading price of our debt and equity securities and on our ability to access the capital markets. As described in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report, the KPNQwest matters present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters seek billions of dollars in damages. In addition, the outcome of one or more of these matters could have a negative impact on the outcomes of the other matters. We continue to defend against these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. 14 Table of Contents We can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional securities or selling assets. Further, there are other material proceedings pending against us as described in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report that, depending on their outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Thus, we can give no assurances as to the impacts on our operating results or financial condition as a result of these matters. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation. We are subject to significant regulation by the FCC, which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer regulated services, and we are subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we are always in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their own initiative. See additional information about regulations affecting our business in BusinessRegulation in Item 1 of this report. Regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from state to state. A number of state legislatures and state utility commissions have adopted reduced or modified forms of regulation for retail services. These changes also generally allow more flexibility for rate changes and for new product introduction, and they enhance our ability to respond to competition. Despite these regulatory changes, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which could expose us to unanticipated price declines. For instance, in 2010 the state utility commission in Arizona may consider a price cap plan that will govern the rates that we charge in that state. The FCC is also considering changing the rates that carriers can charge each other for originating, carrying and terminating traffic and for local access facilities. Also under review by the FCC and state commissions are the intercarrier compensation issues arising from the delivery of traffic destined for entities that offer conference and chat line services for free (known in the industry as access stimulation, or traffic pumping), and of traffic bound for Internet service providers that cross local exchange boundaries (known as VNXX traffic). The FCC and state commissions are also considering changes to funds they have established to subsidize service to high-cost areas. Changes to how those funds are distributed could result in us receiving less in universal service funding, and changes to how the funds are collected could make some of our services less competitive. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental regulations. We monitor our compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we believe that we are in compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Risks Affecting Our Liquidity Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. We continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated debt was approximately $14.2 billion. Approximately $5.8 billion of our debt obligations comes due over the next three years. This amount includes $1.265 billion of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (referred to as our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes), which we may elect to redeem at any time on or after November 20, 2010 and holders may require us to repurchase for cash on November 15, 2010. In addition, holders of these 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes may also elect to convert the principal of their notes into cash during periods when specified, market-based conversion requirements are met. While we currently believe we will have the financial resources to meet our obligations when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate the future condition of our company, the credit markets or the economy generally. We may have unexpected costs and liabilities, and we may have limited access to financing. In addition, we have $193 million of potential stock repurchases remaining under our previously disclosed stock repurchase program, and it is the current expectation of our Board of Directors that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend. Cash used by us to purchase our common stock or to pay dividends will not be available for other purposes, including the repayment of debt. We may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) if revenue and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive pressures increase, if holders of the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes elect to convert their notes because market-based conversion provisions are met or require us to repurchase their notes for cash on November 15, 2010, if we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits significantly earlier than is anticipated, or if we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. We can give no assurance that this additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Also, we may be impacted by factors relating to or affecting our liquidity and capital resources due to perception in the market, impacts on our credit ratings or provisions in our financing agreements that may restrict our flexibility under certain conditions. Our $1.035 billion revolving credit facility (referred to as the Credit Facility), which is currently undrawn, has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our other debt issues have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit ratings. In addition, the Credit Facility contains various limitations, including a restriction on using any proceeds from the facility to pay settlements or judgments relating to the legal matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesNear-Term View in Item 7 of this report for additional information about the Credit Facility. Our high debt levels could adversely impact our credit ratings. Additionally, the degree to which we are leveraged may have other important limiting consequences, including the following: placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared with our less leveraged competitors; making us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions or in any of our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to significantly reduce the substantial capital requirements or operating expenses necessary to continue to operate our business, which may in turn affect our operating results. The industry in which we operate is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the coming years. Although we have reduced our operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further significantly reduce these costs, even if revenue in some areas of our business is decreasing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our maintenance and our core growth requirements going forward, this may not be the case if circumstances underlying our expectations change. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our employee benefit plans could negatively impact our liquidity. We maintain a qualified pension plan, a non-qualified pension plan and post-retirement benefit plans. The funded status of these plans is the difference between the value of all plan assets and benefit obligations. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $790 million at December 31, 2009. The process of calculating benefit obligations is complex. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligations or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. With respect to our qualified pension plan, adverse changes could require us to contribute a material amount of cash to the plan or could accelerate the timing of any required cash payments. We will not be required to make a cash contribution to this plan in 2010. Based on currently available information, our projected required contribution in 2011 is $0 to $120 million. The information necessary to finalize our 2011 contribution calculations will not be available until later in 2010. It is also very likely, based on current funding laws and regulations, that significantly higher contributions will be required in 2012 and beyond. The amount of any required contributions in 2012 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions in 2011 and beyond could have a negative impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. Our debt agreements allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. The terms of our debt instruments permit us to incur additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be necessary for many reasons, including to adequately respond to competition, to comply with regulatory requirements related to our service obligations or for financial reasons alone. Incremental borrowings or borrowings at maturity on terms that impose additional financial risks to our various efforts to improve our operating results and financial condition could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. If we pursue and are involved in any strategic transactions, our financial condition could be adversely affected. On a regular and ongoing basis, we review and evaluate opportunities for acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions that could be beneficial. As a result, we may be involved in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our financial condition (including short-term or long-term liquidity) or short-term or long-term operating results. Should we make an error in judgment when identifying strategic transaction partners or fail to successfully execute any strategic transaction, we will likely fail to realize the benefits we intended to derive from the strategic transaction and may suffer other adverse consequences. Strategic transactions may involve a number of other risks, including: incurrence of substantial transaction costs; diversion of managements attention from operating our existing business; 17 Table of Contents failure to successfully integrate any acquired operations; charges to earnings in the event of any write-down or write-off of goodwill recorded in connection with strategic transactions; depletion of our cash resources or incurrence of additional indebtedness to fund strategic transactions; an adverse impact on our tax position; assumption of liabilities of any acquired business (including unforeseen liabilities); and imposition of additional regulatory obligations by federal or state regulators. We can give no assurance that we would be able to successfully complete any strategic transactions. Other Risks Relating to Qwest If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Item 7 of this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered critical because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Taxing authorities may determine we owe additional taxes relating to various matters, which could adversely affect our financial results. As a significant taxpayer, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. Tax sharing agreements have been executed between us and previous affiliates, and we believe the liabilities, if any, arising from adjustments to previously filed returns would be borne by the affiliated group member determined to have a deficiency under the terms and conditions of such agreements and applicable tax law. We have not generally provided for liabilities attributable to former affiliated companies or for claims they have asserted or may assert against us. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results or our net operating loss carryforwards. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions, which represent a significant number of our employees. Our current four-year agreements with the CWA and the IBEW expire on October 6, 2012. Although we believe that our relations with our employees and unions are satisfactory, no assurance can be 18 Table of Contents given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. The impact of future negotiations, including changes in wages and benefit levels, could have a material impact on our financial results. Also, if we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if significant disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The trading price of our securities has been and could continue to be volatile. The capital markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. The overall market and the trading price of our securities may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our securities may be significantly affected by various factors, including: quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; changes in investors and analysts perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; broader market fluctuations; general economic or political conditions; acquisitions and financings including the issuance of substantial number of shares of our common stock as consideration in acquisitions; the high concentration of shares owned by a few investors; sale of a substantial number of shares held by the existing shareholders in the public market, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options or upon the conversion of our convertible notes; and general conditions in the telecommunications industry, including regulatory developments. Health care reform in the United States could increase the costs of maintaining our post-retirement health benefit programs. The U.S. Congress is considering legislation addressing health care reform. If enacted, this legislation could have a significant ongoing impact on our tax liabilities and the costs of maintaining our employee health and post-retirement benefit programs, which would significantly impact our annual net income and cash flows. Any enacted legislation could also have a significant non-recurring impact on our net income in the period of enactment. For example, current reform proposals would disallow federal income tax deductions for retiree prescription drug benefits to the extent we receive reimbursements for those benefits under the Medicare Part D program. This change would increase the cost to us of this employee benefit program, resulting in a non-recurring increase in our income tax expense and an associated reduction in our net income of approximately $112 million to $129 million in the period in which the law is enacted. We cannot predict whether any law relating to health care reform will ultimately be enacted, the terms or timing of any such law, or whether we would make any changes to our benefit programs as a result of any such law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal properties do not lend themselves to simple description by character and location. The components of our gross investment in property, plant and equipment consisted of the following as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 2008 Components of gross investment in property, plant and equipment: Land and buildings 7 % 8 % Communications equipment 43 % 43 % Other network equipment 46 % 45 % General-purpose computers and other 4 % 4 % Total 100 % 100 % Our property, plant and equipment are used in our business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets segments. We evaluate depreciation, amortization and impairment charges on a total company basis because we do not allocate assets to our segments. As a result, these charges are not generally assigned to any segment. Land and buildings consists of land, land improvements, central office and certain administrative office buildings. Communications equipment consists primarily of switches, routers and transmission electronics. Other network equipment includes primarily conduit and cable. General-purpose computers and other consists principally of computers, office equipment, vehicles and other general support equipment. We own substantially all of our telecommunications equipment required for our business. However, we lease certain facilities and equipment under various capital lease arrangements when the leasing arrangements are more favorable to us than purchasing the assets. Due to favorable economics, we have increasingly turned to financing our assets through capital leases. Total gross investment in property, plant and equipment was approximately $46.6 billion and $46.8 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, before deducting accumulated depreciation. We own and lease administrative offices in major metropolitan locations both in the United States and internationally. Substantially all of our communications equipment and other network equipment is located in buildings that we own or on land within our local service area. Outside of our local service area, our assets are generally located on real property pursuant to an agreement with the property owner or another person with rights to the property. It is possible that we may lose our rights under one or more of these agreements, due to their termination or their expiration. In addition, several putative class actions have been filed against us disputing our use of certain rights-of-way as described in Legal ProceedingsOther Matters in Item 3 of this report. If we lose any of these rights-of-way or are unable to renew them, we may find it necessary to move or replace the affected portions of our network. However, we do not expect any material adverse impacts as a result of the loss of any of these rights. For additional information, see Note 6Property, Plant and Equipment to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In this section, when we refer to a class action as putative it is because a class has been alleged, but not certified in that matter. Until and unless a class has been certified by the court, it has not been established that the named plaintiffs represent the class of plaintiffs they purport to represent. To the extent appropriate, we have accrued liabilities for the matters described below. 20 Table of Contents The terms and conditions of applicable bylaws, certificates or articles of incorporation, agreements or applicable law may obligate us to indemnify our former directors, officers or employees with respect to certain of the matters described below, and we have been advancing legal fees and costs to certain former directors, officers or employees in connection with certain matters described below. KPNQwest Litigation/Investigation On January 27, 2009, the trustees in the Dutch bankruptcy proceeding for KPNQwest, N.V. (of which we were a major shareholder) filed a lawsuit in the federal district court for the District of Colorado alleging violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and breach of duty and mismanagement under Dutch law. We are a defendant in this lawsuit along with Joseph P. Nacchio, our former chief executive officer, Robert S. Woodruff, our former chief financial officer, and John McMaster, the former president and chief executive officer of KPNQwest. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that defendants actions were a cause of the bankruptcy of KPNQwest, and they seek damages for the bankruptcy deficit of KPNQwest of approximately $2.4 billion. Plaintiffs also seek treble and punitive damages as well as an award of plaintiffs attorneys fees and costs. A lawsuit asserting the same claims that was previously filed in the federal district court for the District of New Jersey was dismissed without prejudice, and that dismissal was affirmed on appeal. On September 13, 2006, Cargill Financial Markets, Plc and Citibank, N.A. filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Amsterdam, located in the Netherlands, against us, KPN Telecom B.V., Koninklijke KPN N.V. (referred to as KPN), Mr. Nacchio, Mr. McMaster, and other former employees or supervisory board members of us, KPNQwest or KPN. The lawsuit alleges that defendants misrepresented KPNQwests financial and business condition in connection with the origination of a credit facility and wrongfully allowed KPNQwest to borrow funds under that facility. Plaintiffs allege damages of approximately 219 million (or approximately $314 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2009). On October 31, 2002, Richard and Marcia Grand, co-trustees of the R.M. Grand Revocable Living Trust, dated January 25, 1991, filed a lawsuit in Arizona Superior Court. As amended and following the appeal of a partial summary judgment against plaintiffs which was affirmed in part and reversed in part, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that defendants violated state securities laws in connection with plaintiffs investments in KPNQwest securities. We are a defendant in this lawsuit along with Qwest B.V. (one of our subsidiaries), Mr. Nacchio and Mr. McMaster. The Arizona Superior Court dismissed most of plaintiffs claims, and plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the remainder of their claims. Plaintiffs appealed the courts decision to the Arizona Court of Appeals, which affirmed the Arizona Superior Courts decision. Plaintiffs claim to have lost approximately $9 million in their investments in KPNQwest, and are also seeking interest and attorneys fees. On August 23, 2005, the Dutch Shareholders Association (Vereniging van Effectenbezitters, or VEB) filed a petition for inquiry with the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeals, located in the Netherlands, with regard to KPNQwest. VEB sought an inquiry into the policies and course of business at KPNQwest that are alleged to have caused the bankruptcy of KPNQwest in May 2002, and an investigation into alleged mismanagement of KPNQwest by its executive management, supervisory board members, joint venture entities (us and KPN), and KPNQwests outside auditors and accountants. On December 28, 2006, the Enterprise Chamber ordered an inquiry into the management and conduct of affairs of KPNQwest for the period January 1 through May 23, 2002. On December 5, 2008, the Enterprise Chamber appointed investigators to conduct the inquiry. We will continue to defend against the pending KPNQwest litigation matters vigorously. Other Matters Several putative class actions relating to the installation of fiber-optic cable in certain rights-of-way were filed against us on behalf of landowners on various dates and in various courts in California, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. 21 Table of Contents For the most part, the complaints challenge our right to install our fiber-optic cable in railroad rights-of-way. Complaints in Colorado, Illinois and Texas, also challenge our right to install fiber-optic cable in utility and pipeline rights-of-way. The complaints allege that the railroads, utilities and pipeline companies own the right-of-way as an easement that did not include the right to permit us to install our fiber-optic cable in the right-of-way without the plaintiffs consent. Most actions (California, Colorado, Georgia, Kansas, Mississippi, Missouri, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas) purport to be brought on behalf of state-wide classes in the named plaintiffs respective states. The Massachusetts action purports to be on behalf of state-wide classes in all states in which Qwest has fiber-optic cable in railroad rights-of-way (other than Louisiana and Tennessee), and also on behalf of two classes of landowners whose properties adjoin railroad rights-of-way originally derived from federal land grants. Several actions purport to be brought on behalf of multi-state classes. The Illinois state court action purports to be on behalf of landowners in Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin. The Illinois federal court action purports to be on behalf of landowners in Arkansas, California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, Montana and Oregon. The Indiana action purports to be on behalf of a national class of landowners adjacent to railroad rights-of-way over which our network passes. The complaints seek damages on theories of trespass and unjust enrichment, as well as punitive damages. On July 18, 2008, a federal district court in Massachusetts entered an order preliminarily approving a settlement of all of the actions described above, except the action pending in Tennessee. On September 10, 2009, the court denied final approval of the settlement on grounds that it lacked subject matter jurisdiction. On December 9, 2009, the court issued a revised ruling that, among other things, denied a motion for approval as moot and dismissed the matter for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Qwest Communications Company, LLC, or QCC, is a defendant in litigation filed by several billing agents for the owners of payphones seeking compensation for coinless calls made from payphones. The matter is pending in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Generally, the payphone owners claim that QCC underpaid the amount of compensation due to them under FCC regulations for coinless calls placed from their phones onto QCCs network. The claim seeks compensation for calls, as well as interest and attorneys fees. QCC will vigorously defend against this action. A putative class action filed on behalf of certain of our retirees was brought against us, the Qwest Group Life Insurance Plan and other related entities in federal district court in Colorado in connection with our decision to reduce the life insurance benefit for these retirees to a $10,000 benefit. The action was filed on March 30, 2007. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that we and other defendants were obligated to continue their life insurance benefit at the levels in place before we decided to reduce them. Plaintiffs seek restoration of the life insurance benefit to previous levels and certain equitable relief. The district court ruled in our favor on the central issue of whether we properly reserved our right to reduce the life insurance benefit under applicable law and plan documents. The plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaint to assert additional claims. The court has since dismissed or granted summary judgment to us on all of the plaintiffs claims. Plaintiffs motion for reconsideration is pending before the court. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2009. 22 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market for Qwest Common Stock Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol Q. On February 12, 2010, we had approximately 260,000 stockholders of record, although there are significantly more beneficial holders of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated. Market Price High Low 2009 Fourth quarter $ 4.43 $ 3.42 Third quarter 4.17 3.30 Second quarter 4.87 3.36 First quarter 4.04 2.86 2008 Fourth quarter $ 3.66 $ 2.05 Third quarter 4.15 3.15 Second quarter 5.55 3.78 First quarter 7.07 4.44 Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends in 2008 and 2009: Date Declared Record Date Dividend Per Share Total Amount Payment Date (in millions) December 16, 2009 February 19, 2010 $ 0.08 $ 138 March 12, 2010 October 14, 2009 November 20, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 138 December 11, 2009 July 27, 2009 August 21, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 138 September 11, 2009 April 15, 2009 May 22, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 138 June 12, 2009 December 10, 2008 February 13, 2009 $ 0.08 $ 136 March 6, 2009 October 16, 2008 November 14, 2008 $ 0.08 $ 136 December 5, 2008 July 17, 2008 August 8, 2008 $ 0.08 $ 138 August 29, 2008 April 17, 2008 May 9, 2008 $ 0.08 $ 140 May 30, 2008 It is the current expectation of our Board of Directors that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend. Some of our debt instruments contain restrictions on the amount of dividends we can pay. See Note 8Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information about our restrictions. The most restrictive covenant is under our Credit Facility, which is currently undrawn. The Credit Facility currently allows us to pay cash dividends and repurchase shares up to $1.7 billion, plus any cumulative net income and net proceeds from the issuance of common stock, less any dividends paid or shares repurchased. In addition, like other companies that are incorporated in Delaware, we are also limited by Delaware law in the amount of dividends we can pay. 23 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about repurchases of our common stock or shares surrendered to satisfy tax obligations during the fourth quarter of 2009: Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) Period October 2009 4,352 $ 3.77 $ 193,126,784 November 2009 13,133 $ 3.75 $ 193,126,784 December 2009 $ 0.00 $ 193,126,784 Total 17,485 (1) Amounts represent shares of common stock delivered to us as payment of withholding taxes due on the vesting of restricted stock issued under our Equity Incentive Plan. (2) In October 2006, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program for up to $2 billion of our common stock. Our Board has extended the timeframe to complete these repurchases, which were originally scheduled to be completed in 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had repurchased a total of $1.807 billion of common stock under this program. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified by reference to, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this report and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report. The comparability of the following selected financial data is significantly impacted by various changes in accounting principles including: the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No., or FIN, 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 740) (referred to as FIN 48), which was effective for us on January 1, 2007; the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, (ASC 715), which was effective for us on December 31, 2006; and the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment (ASC 718), which was effective for us on January 1, 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in millions, shares in thousands except per share amounts) Operating revenue $ 12,311 $ 13,475 $ 13,778 $ 13,923 $ 13,903 Operating expenses 10,336 11,378 12,022 12,368 13,048 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 903 1,051 620 517 (765 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 662 652 2,890 553 (762 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of taxes (22 ) Net income (loss) (1) 662 652 2,890 553 (784 ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 1.57 $ 0.29 $ (0.43 ) Diluted 0.38 0.37 1.50 0.28 (0.43 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 1,709,346 1,728,731 1,829,244 1,889,857 1,836,374 Diluted 1,713,498 1,730,206 1,915,167 1,965,751 1,842,838 Dividends declared per common share $ 0.32 $ 0.32 $ 0.08 $ $ Other data: Cash provided by operating activities $ 3,307 $ 2,931 $ 3,026 $ 2,789 $ 2,313 Cash used for investing activities 1,406 1,693 1,601 1,700 459 Cash used for financing activities 60 1,575 1,764 694 2,159 Expenditures for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software 1,409 1,777 1,669 1,632 1,613 25 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in millions) Balance sheet data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,406 $ 565 $ 902 $ 1,241 $ 846 Total assets 20,380 20,141 22,471 21,234 21,491 Total debt (2) 14,200 13,555 14,098 14,695 15,242 Total debt to total capital ratio (3) 109 % 111 % 96 % 109 % 124 % (1) See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of unusual items affecting the results for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Results for 2006 were affected by the changes in accounting principles described above the table and results for 2005 were affected by the following items (shown net of taxes): a gain on sale of assets of $263 million ($0.14 per basic and diluted common share) due to the sale of all of our wireless licenses and substantially all of our related wireless network assets, $114 million ($0.06 per basic and diluted common share) of restructuring, realignment and severance expenses, and a loss on early retirement of debt of $462 million ($0.25 per basic and diluted common share). (2) Total debt is the sum of current portion of long-term borrowings and long-term borrowingsnet on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations in Item 7 of this report. (3) The total debt to total capital ratio is a measure of the percentage of total debt in our capital structure. The ratio is calculated by dividing total debt by total capital. Total debt is the sum of current portion of long-term borrowings and long-term borrowingsnet on our consolidated balance sheets. Total capital is the sum of total debt and total stockholders equity or deficit. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See BusinessSpecial Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 1 of this report for additional factors relating to these statements, and see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Business Overview and Presentation We offer data, Internet, video and voice services nationwide and globally. We generate the majority of our revenue from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We refer to this region as our local service area. Our operating revenue is primarily generated from our business markets, mass markets and wholesale markets segments. We group our products and services among major categories of products and services. During the third quarter of 2009, we changed these categories and began using the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily private line, broadband, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, video, voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, access, traditional wide area network, or WAN and integrated services digital network, or ISDN, services; Qwest-branded wireless services are wireless services that we provided through our mass markets segment under an arrangement with a wireless provider. We stopped providing these services on October 31, 2009; and Data integration is telecommunications equipment we sell that is located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers. We adopted FASB Staff Position, or FSP, APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FASB ASC 470) (FSP APB 14-1) effective January 1, 2009. We applied this FSP retrospectively to all periods presented in our consolidated financial statements. For additional information related to this FSP, see Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements below. We have reclassified certain prior year revenue, expense and access line amounts to conform to the current year presentation. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of this report. Business Trends Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are listed below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Most of these trends also impact our segment results, and therefore we provide a detailed discussion of these trends under the heading Segment Results below. Because we do not allocate capital expenditures or our combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit expenses to our segments, the related trends do not impact any of our segments. Instead, we provide a discussion of these expenses under the headings Operating ExpensesGeneral, Administrative and Other Operating Expenses, Liquidity and Capital ResourcesLong-Term View and Liquidity and Capital ResourcesHistorical ViewInvesting Activities below. Growth in strategic services Product bundling and promotions 27 Table of Contents Greater operating efficiencies Continuing loss of access lines Elimination of Qwest-branded wireless revenue and expenses Pension funding and pension expense Disciplined capital expenditures While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, events and trends discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. Results of Operations Overview Each of our segments use our network to generate revenue by providing data, Internet and voice services to its customers, as described further below. Through our strategic partnerships with DIRECTV and Verizon Wireless, we also offer satellite digital television and wireless services to customers in our local service area. Depending on the products or services purchased, a customer may pay a service activation fee, a monthly service fee, a usage charge or a combination of these. Business markets. This segment provides data, Internet and voice services to our enterprise and government customers. Our business markets products and services include: Strategic services, which include primarily private line, Qwest iQ Networking , hosting, broadband and VoIP services; Legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, traditional WAN, and ISDN services; Data integration, which is telecommunications equipment we sell located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers. Mass markets. This segment provides data, Internet, voice and resold video and wireless services to consumers and small business customers. Our mass markets products and services include: Strategic services, which include primarily broadband, video and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services, which include primarily local and long-distance services; and Qwest-branded wireless services (until October 31, 2009). Wholesale markets . This segment provides data, Internet and voice services primarily to other telecommunications providers. Our wholesale markets products and services include: Strategic services, which are predominately private line services provided to other carriers; and Legacy services, which include primarily long-distance, access, local and traditional WAN services. We also generate other revenue from USF surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. We centrally manage this revenue, and consequently it is not assigned to any of our segments. Expenses for each of our segments include direct expenses incurred by the segment and other expenses assigned to the segment. Direct expenses incurred by the segment include segment specific employee-related 28 Table of Contents costs (excluding any severance expenses and combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses), bad debt, equipment sales costs and other non-employee related costs such as customer support, collections, marketing and advertising. Other expenses assigned to the segments include network expenses, facility costs and other costs such as fleet, product management and real estate costs related to hosting and retail centers. Assigned expenses are determined by applying an activity-based costing methodology. We periodically review the methodology used to assign expenses to our segments. Changes to the methodology are reflected in prior period segment data for comparative purposes. We centrally manage expenses for administrative services (such as finance, computer systems development and support, real estate, legal and human resources), severance costs, restructuring charges and combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses for all employees and retirees; consequently, these expenses are not assigned to our segments. We evaluate depreciation, amortization, information technology impairment charges and interest expense on a total company basis because we do not allocate assets or debt to specific segments. As a result, these items, along with other non-operating income or expenses, are not assigned to any segment. Therefore, the segment results presented below are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations these segments would have achieved had they operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented. The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenue by category: Strategic and legacy services: Strategic services $ 4,215 $ 3,981 $ 3,534 $ 234 $ 447 6 % 13 % Legacy services 7,071 8,099 8,855 (1,028 ) (756 ) (13 )% (9 )% Total strategic and legacy services 11,286 12,080 12,389 (794 ) (309 ) (7 )% (2 )% Qwest-branded wireless services 112 459 535 (347 ) (76 ) (76 )% (14 )% Data integration 557 571 476 (14 ) 95 (2 )% 20 % Total segment revenue 11,955 13,110 13,400 (1,155 ) (290 ) (9 )% (2 )% Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 356 365 378 (9 ) (13 ) (2 )% (3 )% Total operating revenue 12,311 13,475 13,778 (1,164 ) (303 ) (9 )% (2 )% Operating expenses 10,336 11,378 12,022 (1,042 ) (644 ) (9 )% (5 )% Other expensenet 1,072 1,046 1,136 26 (90 ) 2 % (8 )% Income before income taxes 903 1,051 620 (148 ) 431 (14 )% 70 % Income tax (expense) benefit (241 ) (399 ) 2,270 158 (2,669 ) 40 % nm Net income $ 662 $ 652 $ 2,890 $ 10 $ (2,238 ) 2 % (77 )% Earnings per common share: Basic $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 1.57 $ $ (1.19 ) % (76 )% Diluted $ 0.38 $ 0.37 $ 1.50 $ 0.01 $ (1.13 ) 3 % (75 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. 29 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of total operating revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in percentages of total operating revenue) Operating revenue by category: Strategic and legacy services: Strategic services 34 % 30 % 26 % Legacy services 58 % 60 % 64 % Total strategic and legacy services 92 % 90 % 90 % Qwest-branded wireless services % 3 % 4 % Data integration 5 % 4 % 3 % Total segment revenue 97 % 97 % 97 % Other revenue (primarily USF surcharges) 3 % 3 % 3 % Total operating revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Operating expenses 84 % 84 % 87 % Other expensenet 9 % 8 % 8 % Income before income taxes 7 % 8 % 5 % Income tax (expense) benefit (2 )% (3 )% 16 % Net income 5 % 5 % 21 % The following table summarizes some of our key operational measures for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 (in thousands except employees) Employees 30,138 32,937 36,843 (2,799 ) (3,906 ) (8 )% (11 )% Total broadband subscribers 2,974 2,847 2,611 127 236 4 % 9 % Total video subscribers 880 798 649 82 149 10 % 23 % Total wireless subscribers 850 717 824 133 (107 ) 19 % (13 )% Total access lines (1) 10,266 11,565 12,789 (1,299 ) (1,224 ) (11 )% (10 )% (1) Access lines include approximately 403,000, 485,000 and 518,000 of affiliate access lines as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Operating Revenue Although strategic services revenue increased primarily due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking , a decrease in legacy services and Qwest-branded wireless services revenue resulted in lower total operating revenue. Strategic services revenue also increased due to higher broadband revenue resulting from an increase in subscribers, partially offset by rate discounts. Verizon Wireless services revenue also increased as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services from Qwest-branded wireless services. The increase in strategic services revenue was also a result of an increase in private line services revenue due to higher volumes, partially offset by lower rates. Legacy services revenue decreased as a result of lower local services revenue due to access line losses resulting from competitive pressures, along with product substitution. Legacy services revenue also decreased 30 Table of Contents due to a decline in long-distance services revenue primarily driven by our focus on improving the profitability of this service. Lower demand for our traditional WAN services, due to customer migration, also contributed to the decrease in our legacy services revenue. Revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services was also lower primarily due to our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. We recognize revenue from Verizon Wireless services on a net basis and categorize this revenue as strategic services revenue, whereas we recognized revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services on a gross basis and categorized this revenue as a separate category of revenue. The transition to selling Verizon Wireless services resulted in lower wireless services revenue, but favorably impacted our overall profitability. Revenue from data integration decreased due to lower volumes of equipment and installation sales as a result of economic pressures, partially offset by increased professional services. In addition to the specific items discussed below, we believe declining general economic conditions negatively impacted our revenue in 2009. Operating Expenses The following table provides further detail regarding our total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization): Facility costs $ 1,571 $ 2,121 $ (550 ) (26 )% Employee-related costs 1,225 1,370 (145 ) (11 )% Equipment sales costs 445 523 (78 ) (15 )% Other 477 571 (94 ) (16 )% Total cost of sales 3,718 4,585 (867 ) (19 )% Selling: Employee-related costs 1,071 1,169 (98 ) (8 )% Marketing, advertising and external commissions 524 587 (63 ) (11 )% Other 366 452 (86 ) (19 )% Total selling 1,961 2,208 (247 ) (11 )% General, administrative and other operating: Employee-related costs 652 489 163 33 % Taxes and fees 596 589 7 1 % Real estate and occupancy costs 432 454 (22 ) (5 )% Other 666 699 (33 ) (5 )% Total general, administrative and other operating 2,346 2,231 115 5 % Depreciation and amortization 2,311 2,354 (43 ) (2 )% Total operating expenses $ 10,336 $ 11,378 $ (1,042 ) (9 )% Cost of Sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Facility costs decreased primarily due to improvements we made in the profitability of our wholesale long-distance service, which resulted in lower wholesale long-distance volumes and revenue but improved wholesale long-distance margin percentage. In addition, facility costs decreased due to the migration of our wireless customers to Verizon Wireless. Facility costs were also favorably impacted by our continued focus on network optimization. 31 Table of Contents Employee-related costs decreased primarily due to lower salaries, wages and benefits related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. In addition, severance expense decreased because we terminated fewer employees in 2009 as compared to 2008. Equipment sales costs decreased primarily due to fewer handsets sold as we transitioned to selling Verizon Wireless services. Decreased data integration equipment and installation revenue, along with higher capitalization of data integration equipment, also contributed to lower equipment sales costs. Other cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower professional fees and network expenses due to our continued focus on managing costs associated with our network, along with decreased volumes. Selling Expenses Employee-related costs decreased due to lower salaries, wages and benefits related to employee reductions, along with decreased internal commissions driven by lower sales headcount and lower attainment of sales targets. These decreases were partially offset by increases in severance expenses. Marketing, advertising and external commissions decreased primarily due to reduced spending associated with direct mail and media. Marketing, advertising and external commissions also decreased due to improved consumer call center costs resulting from a migration to using internal sales call centers from using third-party sales call centers. Other expenses decreased primarily due to lower professional fees and bad debt expense. General, Administrative and Other Operating Expenses General, administrative and other operating expenses are corporate overhead and other operating costs. These include: employee-related costs for administrative functions (such as salaries, wages and certain benefits); taxes and fees (such as property and other taxes and USF charges); real estate and occupancy costs (such as: rents and utilities, including those incurred by our hosting facilities and fleet costs); and other general, administrative and other operating costs (such as professional fees, outsourced services, litigation related charges and general computer systems support services). These expenses also include our combined net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses for all eligible employees and retirees. These benefits expenses are based on several assumptions, including among other things discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are set at the beginning of each year. Employee-related costs increased primarily due to an increase in pension and post-retirement benefits expenses of $210 million. In 2008 we recognized combined net periodic benefits income, as pension income exceeded post-retirement benefit expense for the year. However, during 2008 we experienced significant losses on our pension and post-retirement benefit plan assets, which significantly impacted the pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recorded in 2009. This increase in pension and post-retirement benefits expenses was partially offset by decreased severance and by lower expenses due to workforce reductions as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. We expect to record combined net periodic expense of approximately $127 million in 2010. The expected decrease in combined net periodic expense in 2010 is primarily due to our decision to no longer provide pension benefit accruals for active management employees under our qualified and non-qualified pension plans, the elimination of the qualified and non-qualified pension plan death benefits for certain eligible retirees and reduced interest cost offset by an increase in actuarial losses. We recorded approximately $196 million in combined net periodic benefits expense for 2009 as compared to combined net periodic benefits income of $14 million for 2008. The 2009 expense is net of a $13 million gain 32 Table of Contents we recognized as a result of our decision to no longer provide pension benefit accruals for active management employees under our qualified and non-qualified pension plans on or after January 1, 2010. The shift from recording combined net periodic income to recording combined net periodic expense was primarily due to a decrease in expected return on plan assets as a result of lower plan asset values and an increase in net actuarial losses. Actuarial gains or losses reflect the differences between earlier actuarial assumptions and what actually occurred. For additional information on our pension and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Taxes and fees increased in 2009 as a result of a $40 million favorable property tax settlement and other favorable adjustments recorded in 2008. These increases were partially offset by lower USF charges and lower gross receipts taxes resulting from continued access line erosion and our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. Real estate and occupancy costs decreased primarily due to lower fuel costs, resulting from fewer miles driven and lower fuel prices. Real estate and occupancy costs also decreased because we had fewer operating leases in 2009 as compared to 2008. Other expenses decreased due to lower litigation charges and settlements, along with reductions in professional fees, materials, supplies and marketing expenses. These decreases were partially offset by the 2008 reversal of a reserve resulting from a favorable lease termination. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation $ 2,071 $ 2,120 $ (49 ) (2 )% Amortization 240 234 6 3 % Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,311 $ 2,354 $ (43 ) (2 )% If we do not significantly shorten our estimates of the useful lives of our assets, we expect that our depreciation expense will continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. Amortization expense was higher for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to increases in internally developed capitalized software used to support our operations. Effective January 1, 2009, we changed our estimates of the economic lives of certain copper cable and telecommunications equipment assets. These changes resulted in additional depreciation expense of approximately $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Lower capital expenditures and the changing mix of our investment in property, plant and equipment since 2002 have decreased our depreciation expense. We made a decision in June 2008 to discontinue certain product and service offerings and as a result we changed our estimates of the economic lives of certain assets used in providing those products and services, which resulted in the acceleration of depreciation of those assets beginning in the third quarter of 2008. As a result, we recorded $19 million of additional depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. These assets were fully depreciated as of December 31, 2009. 33 Table of Contents The additional depreciation for both of the changes described above, net of deferred taxes, reduced net income by approximately $35 million, or approximately $0.02 per basic and diluted common share for the year ended December 31, 2009. Other Consolidated Results The following table provides detail regarding other expense (income)net and income tax (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/(Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Other expense (income)net: Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet $ 1,089 $ 1,069 $ 20 2 % Othernet (17 ) (23 ) (6 ) (26 )% Total other expense (income)net $ 1,072 $ 1,046 $ 26 2 % Income tax expense $ 241 $ 399 $ (158 ) (40 )% Other Expense (Income)Net Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet increased due to the issuance of $811 million of new debt in the second quarter of 2009 and $550 million of new debt in the third quarter of 2009, partially offset by decreased interest expense due to debt maturities, decreased capitalized interest expense due to lower capital expenditures and decreasing interest rates on floating rate debt. Othernet includes, among other things, interest income, income tax penalties, other interest expense (such as interest on income taxes), gains or losses related to certain fair value interest rate hedges and underlying debt and gains or losses on investments. The change in othernet was primarily due to lower interest income resulting from lower interest rates in 2009, partially offset by a higher average cash balance in 2009. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased primarily because of our recognition in 2009 of previously unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax positions and favorable income tax settlements related to prior years. Income tax expense also decreased due to the decrease in current income before income taxes. The previously unrecognized tax benefits and favorable settlements decreased our effective income tax rate to 26.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 38.0% for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had $58 million of unrecognized tax benefits that could affect our effective tax rate in the future. We will continue to defer recognition of these tax benefits until we settle the issues with the taxing authorities or the tax law is clarified in a way that makes it more likely than not that we will receive the benefits. Absent the recognition of these or other discrete items that we may record, we expect our future effective income tax rate will approximate 39%. The U.S. Congress is considering legislation addressing health care reform. Current reform proposals would disallow federal income tax deductions for retiree prescription drug benefits to the extent we receive reimbursements for those benefits under the Medicare Part D program. This change would increase the cost to us of this employee benefit program, resulting in a non-recurring increase in our income tax expense and an associated reduction in our net income of approximately $112 million to $129 million in the period in which the law is enacted. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 12Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. 34 Table of Contents Segment Results The following table summarizes our segment results for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Total segment revenue $ 11,955 $ 13,110 $ (1,155 ) (9 )% Total segment expense 5,726 6,831 (1,105 ) (16 )% Total segment income $ 6,229 $ 6,279 $ (50 ) (1 )% Total segment margin percentage 52 % 48 % 4 % Business markets: Revenue $ 4,093 $ 4,099 $ (6 ) % Expense 2,475 2,580 (105 ) (4 )% Income $ 1,618 $ 1,519 $ 99 7 % Margin percentage 40 % 37 % 3 % Mass markets: Revenue $ 5,019 $ 5,740 $ (721 ) (13 )% Expense 2,246 2,879 (633 ) (22 )% Income $ 2,773 $ 2,861 $ (88 ) (3 )% Margin percentage 55 % 50 % 5 % Wholesale markets: Revenue $ 2,843 $ 3,271 $ (428 ) (13 )% Expense 1,005 1,372 (367 ) (27 )% Income $ 1,838 $ 1,899 $ (61 ) (3 )% Margin percentage 65 % 58 % 7 % Business Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our business markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,594 $ 1,419 $ 175 12 % Legacy services 1,942 2,109 (167 ) (8 )% Total strategic and legacy services 3,536 3,528 8 % Data integration 557 571 (14 ) (2 )% Total revenue 4,093 4,099 (6 ) % Expenses: Direct segment expenses 1,171 1,240 (69 ) (6 )% Assigned facility, network and other expenses 1,304 1,340 (36 ) (3 )% Total expenses 2,475 2,580 (105 ) (4 )% Income $ 1,618 $ 1,519 $ 99 7 % Margin percentage 40 % 37 % 3 % 35 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the total access lines for our business markets segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 2008 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Total access lines 2,396 2,636 (240 ) (9 )% The financial results for our business markets segment continue to be impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. Strategic services. Our mix of total revenue continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our customers increasingly demand customized and integrated data, Internet and voice services. We offer diverse combinations of emerging technology products and services such as Qwest iQ Networking , private line, hosting, and VoIP services. These services afford our customers more flexibility in managing their communications needs and enable us to partner with them to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their operations. This gives us an opportunity to form stronger bonds with these customers. Although we are experiencing price compression on our strategic services, we expect revenue from these services to continue to grow. Legacy services. We face intense competition and price compression with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and into strategic services. Our legacy revenue has been and we expect it will continue to be adversely affected by access line losses. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload and our productivity improvements. Through planned reductions and normal employee attrition, we have reduced our workforce while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. Revenue Strategic services revenue was 39% and 35% of our total business markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue from strategic services increased primarily due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking . The growth in Qwest iQ Networking revenue outpaced a decrease in revenue from our traditional WAN services. Private line services revenue also increased due to higher volumes, partially offset by lower rates. Legacy services revenue was 47% and 51% of our total business markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue from legacy services declined as a result of lower demand for our ATM, frame relay and DIA services as some customers migrated to our strategic services, including Qwest iQ Networking and access line losses. Revenue from data integration decreased due to lower volumes of equipment and installation sales as a result of economic pressures, partially offset by increased professional services. Expenses Direct segment expenses decreased primarily due to lower internal commissions expense driven by lower sales headcount and lower attainment of sales targets. Direct segment expenses also decreased due to reduced data integration costs and decreased marketing and advertising expense, partially offset by higher bad debt expense as a result of a non-recurring adjustment in 2008 to better reflect our collection history for data integration receivables. 36 Table of Contents Assigned facility, network and other expenses decreased primarily due to lower network expenses related to employee reductions and facilities cost decreases coming primarily from cost optimization efforts, partially offset by volume increases. Income Continued execution on operating initiatives that improved our overall cost efficiency drove our margin percentage to 40% from 37% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We continue to be subject to intense competition, customer migration to strategic services and unstable general economic conditions; however, as a result of our continued focus on strategic services and managing costs, we were able to grow income and expand our margin percentage by approximately three percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. Mass Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our mass markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2009 v 2008 2009 v 2008 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,399 $ 1,335 $ 64 5 % Legacy services 3,508 3,946 (438 ) (11 )% Total strategic and legacy services 4,907 5,281 (374 ) (7 )% Qwest-branded wireless services 112 459 (347 ) (76 )% Total revenue 5,019 5,740 (721 ) (13 )% Expenses: Direct segment expenses 1,031 1,299 (268 ) (21 )% Assigned facility, network and other expenses 1,215 1,580 (365 ) (23 )% Total expenses 2,246 2,879 (633 ) (22 )% Income $ 2,773 $ 2,861 $ (88 ) (3 )% Margin percentage 55 % 50 % 5 % The following table summarizes some of the key operational measures for our mass markets segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 2008 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Broadband subscribers (1) 2,974 2,847 127 4 % Video subscribers 880 798 82 10 % Access lines 6,840 7,796 (956 ) (12 )% Wireless subscribers (1) 850 717 133 19 % (1) Broadband and wireless subscribers include an immaterial number of business markets customers. (2) Business markets access lines include approximately 403,000, 485,000 and 518,000 of affiliate access lines as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 37 Table of Contents The financial results for our mass markets segment continue to be impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. Strategic services. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services in our mass markets segment. We reached nearly 3.0 million broadband subscribers at December 31, 2009 compared to a little over 2.8 million at December 31, 2008. We believe the ability to continually increase connection speeds is competitively important. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which we launched to meet customer demand for higher broadband speeds. In addition to the FTTN deployment, we continue to expand our product offerings and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a competitive market and a maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers already have broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and grow our broadband subscribers. Access lines. Our revenue has been, and we expect it will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has increased the number and type of competitors within our industry and has decreased our market share. We expect that these factors will continue to impact our business. Product bundling and other product promotions, as described below, continue to be some of our responses to offset the loss of revenue as a result of access line losses. Product bundling and product promotions . We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While video and wireless subscribers are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not make a large contribution to strategic services revenue. We believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer limited time promotions on our broadband service for qualifying customers who have our broadband product in their bundle, which we believe will positively affect our acquisition volume and drive customers to purchase more expanded offerings. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenue for our individual products, we believe product bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload, productivity improvements, changes in the telecommunications industry and governmental regulations. Through planned reductions and normal employee attrition, we have reduced our workforce and employee-related costs while achieving operational efficiencies and improving processes through automation, regional-level management and other innovative ways of operating. Wireless revenue and expenses. In April 2008, we signed a five-year agreement with Verizon Wireless to market and sell its wireless services under its brand name. We began selling these services in the third quarter of 2008. Until October 31, 2009, we also provided Qwest-branded wireless services under an arrangement with a different wireless services provider. We recognize revenue from Verizon Wireless services on a net basis, whereas we recognized revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services on a gross basis. This difference in the treatment of revenue results in lower revenue and lower expenses (such as lower equipment sales costs, lower bad debt expense and elimination of customer care and facility costs) with respect to Verizon Wireless services when compared to Qwest-branded wireless services. We categorize revenue from Verizon Wireless services as strategic services revenue and revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services as a separate category of revenue. Revenue Strategic services revenue represented 28% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 23% for the year ended December 31, 2008, and continued to grow, but at a slower rate as compared 38 Table of Contents to 2008. Strategic services revenue increased primarily due to an increase in broadband subscribers, partially offset by rate discounts. The increase in strategic services revenue was also a result of an increase in Verizon Wireless services revenue as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services from selling Qwest-branded wireless services. These increases were partially offset by a slight decrease in overall video services revenue as a result of our transition to selling satellite digital television from traditional cable-based digital television. The increase in satellite digital television subscribers was more than offset by the decrease in cable-based digital television subscribers. Legacy services revenue decreased primarily due to declines in local services and long-distance volumes and rates. These declines were driven by access line losses resulting from the competitive pressures described above. Qwest-branded wireless services revenue decreased as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services, the revenue from which we record in strategic services on a net basis. Expenses Direct segment expenses decreased primarily due to lower wireless equipment sales costs reflecting fewer handsets sold as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services. In addition, expenses decreased due to lower employee-related costs primarily due to workforce reductions as well as reduced marketing expenses and professional fees. Assigned facility, network and other expenses decreased primarily due to lower facility costs as we completed our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services and lower network costs related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continued to adjust our workforce to reflect our workload. Income Expense reductions due to a reduced workforce, network cost efficiencies and our transition to selling Verizon Wireless services improved our margin percentage by approximately five percentage points to 55% for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to 50% for the year ended December 31, 2008. We continue to experience income pressure as a result of access line losses, driven by intense competition and product substitution. Wholesale Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our wholesale markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended Increase/ % December 31, (Decrease) Change 2009 v 2009 v 2009 2008 2008 2008 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,222 $ 1,227 $ (5 ) % Legacy services 1,621 2,044 (423 ) (21 )% Total revenue 2,843 3,271 (428 ) (13 )% Expenses: Direct segment expenses 156 179 (23 ) (13 )% Assigned facility, network and other expenses 849 1,193 (344 ) (29 )% Total expenses 1,005 1,372 (367 ) (27 )% Income $ 1,838 $ 1,899 $ (61 ) (3 )% Margin percentage 65 % 58 % 7 % 39 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the total access lines for our wholesale markets segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 2008 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Total access lines 1,030 1,133 (103 ) (9 )% The financial results for our wholesale markets segment continue to be impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. Private line services. Demand for our private line services continues to increase, although our customers optimization of their networks and industry consolidation have negatively impacted our private line revenue. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment, we also believe our fiber strategy will favorably influence our private line revenue through increased demand. Access and local services revenue. Our access and local services revenue has been, and we expect it will continue to be, adversely affected by technological migration and industry consolidation. For example, consumers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. We expect these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment. Long-distance services revenue . As we have continued to take a more disciplined approach to long-distance profitability, we have seen long-distance services revenue decline while our long-distance margin has improved significantly. We continue to focus on long-distance profitability as we see declining demand for traditional voice services and the effects of industry consolidation. Revenue Our revenue was negatively impacted by industry consolidation, price compression, and our customers optimization of their cost structures. Strategic services revenue was 43% and 38% of our total wholesale markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Strategic services revenue declined slightly due to decreased rates for our private line service, partially offset by increased volumes. Legacy services revenue declined due to decreases in long-distance services revenue primarily driven by our focus on improving the profitability of this service and industry consolidation. In addition, access and local services revenue declined due to access line loss and a declining demand for UNEs for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. Traditional WAN services also declined due to industry consolidation and customer migration to more advanced technology services. Expenses Direct segment expenses decreased primarily due to reduced professional fees and external commissions as a result of our reduced volumes. We expect to continue to see direct segment expenses decrease as we match our expenses to our revenue trends. Assigned facility, network and other expenses decreased primarily due to the long-distance volume decline noted above, coupled with lower long-distance rates. The long-distance volume declines driving the lower facilities expenses were a direct result of our long-distance profitability initiatives that we implemented and industry consolidation. 40 Table of Contents Income Our margin percentage increased approximately seven percentage points and we held our income to a 3% reduction for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 due to profitability improvements primarily relating to our long-distance services. We continue to experience income pressure as a result of decreased access and local services and the impact of customer network optimization in strategic services. 2008 COMPARED TO 2007 Operating Revenue The decrease in legacy services revenue was partially offset by increased revenue from our strategic services primarily due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking , increased broadband revenue resulting from an increase in subscribers and increased rates and an increase in private line services revenue due to higher volumes, partially offset by lower rates. Increased volumes in hosting services and an increase in video subscribers also contributed to higher strategic services revenue. Legacy services revenue decreased as a result of lower local services revenue due to access line losses resulting from competitive pressures, along with declining demand for UNEs. Legacy services revenue also decreased due to a decline in long-distance services revenue as a result of lower volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower rates. Lower demand for our traditional WAN services also contributed to the decrease in our legacy services revenue. Revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services was also lower primarily due to fewer wireless subscribers as we transitioned to selling Verizon Wireless services. We recognize revenue from Verizon Wireless services on a net basis and categorize this revenue as strategic services revenue, whereas we recognized revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services on a gross basis and categorized this revenue as a separate category of revenue. In addition, lower average rates contributed to the decrease in Qwest-branded wireless services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Revenue from data integration increased primarily due to higher equipment sales and services. 41 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table provides further detail regarding our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2008 2007 2008 v 2007 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization): Facility costs $ 2,121 $ 2,264 $ (143 ) (6 )% Employee-related costs 1,370 1,383 (13 ) (1 )% Equipment sales costs 523 518 5 1 % Other 571 538 33 6 % Total cost of sales 4,585 4,703 (118 ) (3 )% Selling: Employee-related costs 1,169 1,140 29 3 % Marketing, advertising and external commissions 587 602 (15 ) (2 )% Other 452 420 32 8 % Total selling 2,208 2,162 46 2 % General, administrative and other operating: Employee-related costs 489 492 (3 ) (1 )% Taxes and fees 589 662 (73 ) (11 )% Real estate and occupancy costs 454 445 9 2 % Other 699 1,099 (400 ) (36 )% Total general, administrative and other operating 2,231 2,698 (467 ) (17 )% Depreciation and amortization 2,354 2,459 (105 ) (4 )% Total operating expenses $ 11,378 $ 12,022 $ (644 ) (5 )% Cost of Sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of sales are costs incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These include: facility costs (which are third-party telecommunications expenses we incur for using other carriers networks to provide services to our customers); employee-related costs directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages and certain benefits); equipment sales costs (such as data integration, handsets and modem costs); and other cost of sales directly related to our network operations (such as professional fees, materials and supplies and outsourced services). Facility costs decreased primarily due to lower volumes related to decreases in wholesale markets long-distance services and certain business markets legacy services, such as traditional WAN. In addition, facility costs decreased due to the migration of our wireless customers to Verizon Wireless. As previously discussed, we record revenue net of expenses under this agreement. These decreases were partially offset by increased facility costs related to the growth in Qwest iQ Networking , private line and long-distance volumes. Employee-related costs decreased primarily due to employee reductions in 2008. These decreases were partially offset by severance charges of approximately $81 million in 2008 related to employee reductions in our network operations. 42 Table of Contents Equipment sales costs increased primarily due to higher costs corresponding to growth in business data integration revenue. This increase was partially offset by fewer handsets sold as we transitioned to selling Verizon Wireless services from selling Qwest-branded wireless services. Other cost of sales increased primarily due to higher professional fees and other costs for operating and maintaining our network. Selling Expenses Selling expenses are costs incurred in selling products and services to our customers. These include: employee-related costs directly attributable to selling products or services (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions and certain benefits); marketing, advertising and external commissions; and other selling costs (such as bad debt expense, professional fees and outsourced services). Employee-related costs increased primarily due to higher costs associated with our sales force in our business markets segment. These increases were partially offset by a decline in the amortization of deferred costs associated with the activation of access lines. Certain customer acquisition costs are deferred up to the amount of any up-front fee and amortized over the expected life of the customer relationship and have been declining in amount as a result of access line losses and promotional waivers of up-front fees. Marketing, advertising and external commissions decreased primarily due to higher marketing and advertising costs in 2007 to promote name and brand recognition in our business markets segment and product bundling and broadband services in our mass markets segment. This decrease was partially offset by higher external commission costs in 2008 in our business markets segment. Other selling costs increased due to higher professional services fees and other costs in 2008 and a refund associated with a regulatory matter in 2007. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense in our mass markets segment. General, Administrative and Other Operating Expenses Employee-related costs decreased primarily due to lower pension expense partially offset by severance charges of $32 million and an increase in post retirement benefits expenses as well as salaries and wages. General, administrative and other operating expenses include the combined net periodic expenses of our pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance plans for all eligible employees and retirees. We recorded combined net periodic income of $14 million and combined net periodic expense of $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The shift from recording combined net periodic expense to recording combined net periodic income was primarily due to a decrease in net actuarial losses. For additional information on our pension and post-retirement plans, see Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Taxes and fees decreased primarily due to a $40 million favorable property tax settlement recognized in 2008. Excluding this settlement, taxes and fees decreased due to other favorable property tax adjustments. Real estate and occupancy costs increased primarily due to higher utility rates and usage, in addition to higher fuel costs to operate our network fleet. Other general, administrative and other operating expenses decreased primarily due to $393 million related to securities and other litigation in 2007 and the reversal of approximately $33 million of restructuring reserve resulting from the early termination of a lease in 2008. For additional information about the consolidated securities action, see Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. 43 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended Increase/ % December 31, (Decrease) Change 2008 v 2008 v 2008 2007 2007 2007 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation $ 2,120 $ 2,231 $ (111 ) (5 )% Amortization 234 228 6 3 % Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,354 $ 2,459 $ (105 ) (4 )% Lower capital expenditures and the changing mix of our investment in property, plant and equipment since 2002 have decreased our depreciation expense. We made a decision in June 2008 to discontinue certain product and service offerings and as a result we changed our estimates of the remaining lives of certain assets used in providing those products and services, which resulted in the acceleration of depreciation and amortization of those assets beginning in the third quarter of 2008. As a result, we recorded $40 million of additional depreciation and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The additional depreciation for the change described above, net of deferred taxes, reduced net income by approximately $24 million, or approximately $0.01 per basic and diluted common share for the year ended December 31, 2008. Other Consolidated Results The following table provides detail regarding other expense (income)net and income tax (expense) benefit for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2008 2007 2008 v 2007 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions) Other expense (income)net: Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet $ 1,069 $ 1,139 $ (70 ) (6 )% Loss on early retirement of debtnet 26 (26 ) nm Othernet (23 ) (29 ) (6 ) (21 )% Total other expense (income)net $ 1,046 $ 1,136 $ (90 ) (8 )% Income tax (expense) benefit $ (399 ) $ 2,270 $ 2,669 nm nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Other Expense (Income)Net Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet decreased due to declining debt levels as repayments exceeded new borrowings in each year. In addition, lower interest rates on floating rate debt and interest rate swaps contributed to the decrease in interest expense in 2008. 44 Table of Contents Loss on early retirement of debtnet for 2007 was primarily due to the redemption of $250 million aggregate principal amount of 8 7 / 8 % Debentures due June 1, 2031. The redemption resulted in a loss on early retirement of debt of $18 million. Othernet includes, among other things, interest income, income tax penalties, other interest expense (such as interest on income taxes), gains or losses related to certain fair value interest rate hedges and underlying debt and gains or losses on investments. The change in othernet was primarily due to lower tax interest expense, including an interest benefit related to an income tax settlement in 2008, partially offset by lower interest income. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Income tax (expense) benefit changed from a benefit for the year ended December 31, 2007 to an expense for the year ended December 31, 2008, due to a reversal of a significant portion of a valuation allowance in 2007. During 2007, we determined that it was more likely than not that we would realize the majority of our deferred tax assets, including our deferred tax assets related to U.S. federal NOLs. Thus, we reversed a significant portion of the valuation allowance in 2007. In making this determination, we analyzed, among other things, our recent history of earnings and cash flows, forecasts of future earnings, the nature and timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets and our cumulative earnings for the prior 12 quarters. The reversal of the valuation allowance resulted in an income tax benefit of $2.133 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 and an increase in our current and non-current deferred tax assetsnet on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 12Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Segment Results The following table summarizes our segment results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2008 2007 2008 v 2007 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions) Total segment revenue $ 13,110 $ 13,400 $ (290 ) (2 )% Total segment expense 6,831 7,006 (175 ) (3 )% Total segment income $ 6,279 $ 6,394 $ (115 ) (2 )% Total segment margin percentage 48 % 48 % % Business markets: Revenue $ 4,099 $ 3,912 $ 187 5 % Expense 2,580 2,380 200 8 % Income $ 1,519 $ 1,532 $ (13 ) (1 )% Margin percentage 37 % 39 % (2 )% Mass markets: Revenue $ 5,740 $ 5,979 $ (239 ) (4 )% Expense 2,879 3,112 (233 ) (8 )% Income $ 2,861 $ 2,867 $ (6 ) % Margin percentage 50 % 48 % 2 % Wholesale markets: Revenue $ 3,271 $ 3,509 $ (238 ) (7 )% Expense 1,372 1,514 (142 ) (9 )% Income $ 1,899 $ 1,995 $ (96 ) (5 )% Margin percentage 58 % 57 % 1 % 45 Table of Contents Business Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our business markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2008 2007 2008 v 2007 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,419 $ 1,188 $ 231 19 % Legacy services 2,109 2,248 (139 ) (6 )% Total strategic and legacy services 3,528 3,436 92 3 % Data integration 571 476 95 20 % Total revenue 4,099 3,912 187 5 % Expenses: Direct segment expenses 1,240 1,081 159 15 % Assigned facility, network and other expenses 1,340 1,299 41 3 % Total expenses 2,580 2,380 200 8 % Income $ 1,519 $ 1,532 $ (13 ) (1 )% Margin percentage 37 % 39 % (2 )% The following table summarizes the total access lines for our business markets segment as of December 31, 2008 and 2007: December 31, 2008 2007 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Total access lines 2,636 2,791 (155 ) (6 )% Revenue Strategic services revenue was 35% and 30% of our total business markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenue from strategic services increased primarily due to increased volumes in Qwest iQ Networking and hosting services. In addition, private line services revenue increased due to higher volumes, partially offset by lower rates. Legacy services revenue was 51% and 57% of our total business markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenue from legacy services declined as a result of decreased volumes in traditional WAN services, along with lower local services revenue driven by access line losses. Revenue from data integration increased primarily due to higher equipment sales and services. Expenses Direct segment expenses increased primarily due to higher employee-related costs associated with our sales force, higher external commission costs, increased professional fees and higher data integration costs to support growth in data integration revenue. Assigned facility, network and other expenses increased primarily due to higher facility costs related to growth in Qwest iQ Networking and long-distance volumes. This increase was partially offset by decreased volumes for certain business markets legacy services, such as dial-up access and our traditional WAN services. 46 Table of Contents Income Expenses increased due to an increase in our sales force and increased data integration costs decreased our margin percentage to 37% from 39% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Intense competition, product substitution and customer migration also contributed to the income pressure that decreased our margin percentage by approximately two percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Mass Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our mass markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2008 2007 2008 v 2007 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,335 $ 1,150 $ 185 16 % Legacy services 3,946 4,294 (348 ) (8 )% Total strategic and legacy services 5,281 5,444 (163 ) (3 )% Qwest-branded wireless services 459 535 (76 ) (14 )% Total revenue 5,740 5,979 (239 ) (4 )% Expenses: Direct segment expenses 1,299 1,454 (155 ) (11 )% Assigned facility, network and other expenses 1,580 1,658 (78 ) (5 )% Total expenses 2,879 3,112 (233 ) (8 )% Income $ 2,861 $ 2,867 $ (6 ) % Margin percentage 50 % 48 % 2 % The following table summarizes some of the key operational measures for our mass markets segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2008 2007 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Broadband subscribers (1) 2,847 2,611 236 9 % Video subscribers 798 649 149 23 % Access lines 7,796 8,707 (911 ) (10 )% Wireless subscribers (1) 717 824 (107 ) (13 )% (1) Broadband and wireless subscribers include an immaterial number of business markets customers. In addition to the specific items discussed below, we believe declining general economic conditions negatively impacted our revenue in 2008. Revenue Strategic services revenue represented 23% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to 19% for the same period in 2007. Strategic services revenue increased primarily due to an increase in broadband subscribers and, to a lesser extent, an increase in video subscribers as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007. 47 Table of Contents Legacy services revenue decreased primarily due to lower local services revenue, which was driven by access line losses resulting from competitive pressures. In addition, long-distance services revenue decreased due to lower volumes and rates. Qwest-branded wireless services revenue decreased primarily due to fewer wireless subscribers as we transitioned to selling Verizon Wireless services. We recognize revenue from Verizon Wireless services on a net basis and categorize this revenue as strategic services revenue, whereas we recognized revenue from Qwest-branded wireless services on a gross basis and categorized this revenue as a separate category of revenue. In addition, lower average rates contributed to the decrease in Qwest-branded wireless services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Expenses Direct segment expenses decreased primarily due to lower equipment sales costs due to fewer handsets sold as we transitioned to selling Verizon Wireless services, lower marketing and advertising costs and a decline in the amortization of customer acquisition costs associated with the activation of access lines in 2008. A reduction in bad debt expense resulting from lower write-offs and recoveries of previously written-off receivables contributed to the decrease in direct segment expenses in 2008. Assigned facility, network and other expenses decreased primarily due to lower facility costs associated with migration of our customer from Qwest-branded wireless services to Verizon Wireless services and lower network costs related to employee reductions in our network operations in 2008 as we continued to adjust our workforce to reflect our workload. Income Our focus on increasing broadband subscribers increased our margin percentage by approximately 2 percentage points to 50% for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to 48% for the year ended December 31, 2007. We were able to hold our income flat as the reductions in local services revenue and Qwest-branded wireless services revenue were offset by our cost management. Wholesale Markets The following table summarizes some of the key financial measures for our wholesale markets segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2008 2007 2008 v 2007 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions) Revenue: Strategic services $ 1,227 $ 1,196 $ 31 3 % Legacy services 2,044 2,313 (269 ) (12 )% Total revenue 3,271 3,509 (238 ) (7 )% Expenses: Direct segment expenses 179 168 11 7 % Assigned facility, network and other expenses 1,193 1,346 (153 ) (11 )% Total expenses 1,372 1,514 (142 ) (9 )% Income $ 1,899 $ 1,995 $ (96 ) (5 )% Margin percentage 58 % 57 % 1 % 48 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the total access lines for our wholesale markets segment as of December 31, 2008 and 2007: December 31, 2008 2007 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Total access lines 1,133 1,291 (158 ) (12 )% Revenue Strategic services revenue was 38% and 34% of our total wholesale markets revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Strategic services revenue increased primarily due to increased volumes in private line services. Legacy services revenue decreased primarily due to a decline in long-distance services revenue as a result of lower volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower rates. In addition, local services revenue decreased due to declining demand for UNEs and access services revenue decreased primarily due to a 9% decline in volume compared to 2007. Expenses Direct segment expenses increased primarily due to a refund associated with a regulatory matter in 2007, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees. Excluding the refund in 2007, direct segment expenses decreased slightly in 2008 compared to 2007. Assigned facility, network and other expenses decreased primarily due to lower facility costs, largely resulting from the volume decline in long-distance services. Income Our new focus on improving the profitability of our long-distance services increased our margin percentage approximately 1 percentage point to 58% for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to 57% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in long-distance services revenue decreased our income, but was partially offset by the new profitability initiative for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to 57% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Liquidity and Capital Resources Near-Term View We expect that our cash on hand and expected net cash generated by operating activities will exceed our cash needs over the next 12 months. At December 31, 2009, we held cash and cash equivalents totaling $2.406 billion and had $1.035 billion available under our currently undrawn revolving credit facility (referred to as the Credit Facility). We accessed the credit markets two times in 2009 for a total of $1.270 billion. Financing activities in January and February 2010 resulted in $250 million of incremental liquidity. In particular, we issued $800 million of debt for net proceeds of $775 million and redeemed $525 million of debt. You can find additional information on our 2010 financing activities in Note 8Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. During the year ended December 31, 2009, our net cash generated by operating activities totaled $3.307 billion. For the coming 12 months, our expected financing and investing cash needs of approximately $5 billion include: $2.693 billion of debt maturing; capital expenditures of $1.7 billion or less; and quarterly dividends on our common stock of approximately $140 million per quarter. 49 Table of Contents The $2.693 billion of notes maturing in 2010 includes $1.265 billion of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes and our February 2010 redemption of $525 million of the 7.25% Senior Notes due 2011. Although our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes have a stated maturity of 2025, we treat these notes as maturing in 2010 because they contain put and call provisions that first apply in November 2010. We accessed the credit markets multiple times in the past year in part to prepare for the possibility that we will need $1.265 billion of cash in November 2010 to repurchase these notes. Even if we are not required to repurchase these notes in November 2010, we may still choose to call the notes at that time. You can find additional information about these notes in Note 8Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. In general, we intend to refinance debt issued by our QC subsidiary (including $825 million maturing in 2011 and $1.500 billion maturing in 2012) and intend to pay all other maturing debt with cash on hand and expected net cash generated by operating activities. However, we do not anticipate issuing new debt to refinance the $500 million of debt issued by our QC subsidiary that matures in June 2010, as that maturity was factored into our 2009 borrowing decisions. We have significant discretion in how we use our cash to pay for capital expenditures and for other costs of our business, as only a minority portion of our capital expenditures is dedicated to preservation activities or government mandates. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. If we are not successful in maintaining or increasing our net cash generated by operating activities in the near term, we may use this discretion to decrease our capital expenditures, which may impact future years operating results and cash flows. For example, we also lease certain facilities and equipment under various capital lease arrangements when the leasing arrangements are more favorable to us than purchasing the assets. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we entered into capital leases of approximately $107 million, which allowed us to reduce our initial cash outlays, and we may use lease financing in 2010 for some portion of our capital spending. At December 31, 2009, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $483 million. This working capital deficit improved $400 million as compared to our working capital deficit at December 31, 2008. The improvement was primarily due to earnings before depreciation, amortization and income taxes, and net proceeds from our long term debt issuances, partially offset by the reclassification of non-current debt to current, capital expenditures and dividends declared on our common stock. We continue to look for opportunities to improve our capital structure by reducing debt and interest expense. We expect that at any time we deem conditions favorable we will also attempt to improve our liquidity position by accessing debt or other markets in a manner designed to create positive economic value. Although we were able to access the credit markets in April 2009, September 2009 and January 2010, the unstable economy may impair our ability to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited or at terms that are acceptable to us. As of December 31, 2009, we also had $193 million in stock repurchases remaining under the $2 billion stock repurchase program that our Board of Directors authorized in October 2006. The Board of Directors extended the timeframe to complete these repurchases, which were originally scheduled to be completed in 2008. We did not repurchase any stock under this program in 2009. Long-Term View We believe that cash provided by operations and our currently undrawn Credit Facility, combined with our current cash position and the likelihood that we will continue to have access to capital markets to refinance our debt as it matures, should allow us to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. Our general policy is to refinance the debt maturities of our QC subsidiary and not to refinance all other debt maturities. 50 Table of Contents Debt We have a significant amount of debt maturing in the next several years, including $2.693 billion maturing in 2010 (including our 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes, which for the reasons discussed above we treat as maturing in 2010), $1.626 billion maturing in 2011, $1.500 billion maturing in 2012 and $750 million maturing in 2013. The $1.626 billion maturing in 2011 excludes the February 2010 redemption of $525 million of our 7.25% Senior Notes due 2011. We believe that we will continue to have access to capital markets to refinance our debt as discussed above in the Near-Term View. Although we were able to access the credit markets in April 2009, September 2009 and January 2010, the unstable economy may impair our ability to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited or at terms that are acceptable to us. The Credit Facility makes available to us $1.035 billion of additional credit subject to certain restrictions as described below, is currently undrawn and expires in September 2013. The Credit Facility has 13 lenders, each with commitments ranging from $25 million to $100 million. This facility has a cross payment default provision, and this facility and certain other debt issues also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. These provisions generally provide that a cross default under these debt instruments could occur if: we fail to pay any indebtedness when due in an aggregate principal amount greater than $100 million; any indebtedness is accelerated in an aggregate principal amount greater than $100 million; or judicial proceedings are commenced to foreclose on any of our assets that secure indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount greater than $100 million. Upon a cross default, the creditors of a material amount of our debt may elect to declare that a default has occurred under their debt instruments and to accelerate the principal amounts due to those creditors. Cross acceleration provisions are similar to cross default provisions, but permit a default in a second debt instrument to be declared only if, in addition to a default occurring under the first debt instrument, the indebtedness due under the first debt instrument is actually accelerated. The Credit Facility also contains various limitations, including a restriction on using any proceeds from the facility to pay settlements or judgments relating to the legal matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. In addition, to the extent that our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA (as defined in our debt covenants), is reduced by cash settlements or judgments relating to the matters discussed in that note, our debt to consolidated EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements will be adversely affected. This could reduce our liquidity and flexibility due to potential restrictions on drawing on our Credit Facility and potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) if: revenue and cash provided by operations significantly decline; poor economic conditions continue to persist; competitive pressures increase; we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan; or we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. 51 Table of Contents Pension Plan Benefits paid by our pension plan are paid through a trust. This pension plan is measured annually at December 31. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $790 million at December 31, 2009. Cash funding requirements can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, the applicable discount rate used to value the benefit obligation, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. As a result, it is difficult to determine future funding requirements with a high level of precision; however, in general, current funding laws and regulations require funding deficits to be paid over a seven year period unless the plan is fully funded before then. We will not be required to make a cash contribution to this plan in 2010. Based on currently available information, our projected required contribution in 2011 is $0 to $120 million. The information necessary to finalize our 2011 contribution calculations will not be available until later in 2010. It is also very likely, based on current funding laws and regulations, that significantly higher contributions will be required in 2012 and beyond. The amount of any required contributions in 2012 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. See additional information about our pension benefits in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Post-Retirement Benefits Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. As of December 31, 2009, the unfunded status of all of our post-retirement benefit plans was $2.525 billion. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of retirees who are former occupational (also referred to as union) employees, and we believe that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for certain health care costs for approximately five years. We did not make any cash contributions to this trust in 2009 and do not expect to make any significant cash contributions to this trust in the future. We therefore anticipate that the majority of the costs that have historically been paid out of this trust will need to be paid by us at some point in the future. As of December 31, 2009, the fair value of the trust assets was $863 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. In 2008 we estimated that the trust would be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for our occupational post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Based on returns on trust assets during 2009, we still believe that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for our occupational post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Thereafter, covered benefits for our eligible retirees who are former occupational employees will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the assets become liquid. This five year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimate of the annual long-term rate of return on the plan assets is 8.0% based on the currently held assets; however, this could vary widely in any given year. The benefits reimbursed from plan assets were $193 million in 2009. See additional information about our post-retirement benefits in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Income Tax Payments During the past three years, our income tax payments have predominantly related to prior years income tax issues. In 2009 and 2008, we made payments (including penalties and interest) of $48 million and $102 million, respectively. These payments related to prior years federal and state income tax issues, respectively. In 2007, we paid immaterial amounts for income taxes. We currently make some payments for income taxes; however, in most jurisdictions where we are subject to income tax, those taxes are largely offset through the utilization of our significant net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs). As of December 31, 2009, we had NOLs of $5.8 billion and we expect to fully use these NOLs as an offset against future taxable income. We do not expect to pay a significant amount of income taxes until all of these NOLs have been used; however, the timing of that use will depend upon future earnings and upon our future tax circumstances. We currently expect to be able to use the NOLs to reduce tax payments for several years. 52 Table of Contents Once our NOLs are fully utilized, we expect to make income tax payments commensurate with our taxable income. The amounts of those payments will also depend upon future earnings and upon our future tax circumstances and cannot be accurately estimated at this time. Historical View The following table summarizes cash flow activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 2009 v 2008 2008 v 2007 (Dollars in millions) Cash flows: Provided by operating activities $ 3,307 $ 2,931 $ 3,026 $ 376 $ (95 ) 13 % (3 )% Used for investing activities 1,406 1,693 1,601 (287 ) 92 (17 )% 6 % Used for financing activities 60 1,575 1,764 (1,515 ) (189 ) (96 )% (11 )% Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased during the period as the decline in cash received from customers as a result of the decline in customers was more than offset by a decrease in payments for securities-related legal matters; a decrease in payments for facility costs resulting from the transition to Verizon Wireless services from selling Qwest-branded wireless services, declining minutes of use, network optimization and reduced rates; and lower payments for employee-related costs due to lower headcount. Cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily due to decreased cash received from customers as a result of the decline in customers and increased net payments for income taxes related to an income tax settlement. These decreases were partially offset by lower payments for shareholder litigation, facility costs and interest. We made shareholder litigation payments of $209 million and $459 million during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities decreased in 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to lower capital expenditures. Lower capital spending was the result of initiatives related to decreasing per unit capital costs, a slowdown in new housing construction, which was down 40% as compared to 2008, and other lower customer-driven capital requirements. We also took advantage of favorable interest rates and increased our capital leasing activity, which further reduced our cash payments for capital equipment. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband. In 2010, we anticipate that our fiber investment, which includes fiber to the cell site, or FTTCS, will increase. This upward trend is the largest contributor to our projected capital expenditures for 2010 increasing to $1.7 billion or less. In addition, we may use lease financing in 2010 for some portion of our capital spending. Cash used for investing activities increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily due to increased capital expenditures to support the planned growth in our strategic services, partially offset by lower proceeds from the sale of and purchases of investment securities. We received net proceeds from the sale of investment securities of $65 million in 2008 and $139 million in 2007. In addition, we reclassified $100 million of cash equivalents to investments in 2007. 53 Table of Contents Financing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2009, we issued $1.361 billion of new debt resulting in aggregate net proceeds of $1.270 billion, repaid $827 million of long-term borrowings including current maturities and paid $551 million in dividends. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we repaid $631 million of long-term borrowings including current maturities, paid $556 million in dividends and purchased $432 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we repaid $1.176 billion of long-term borrowings including current maturities, purchased $1.170 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program and issued $500 million of new debt resulting in aggregate net proceeds of $493 million. We were in compliance with all provisions and covenants of our borrowings as of December 31, 2009. Letters of Credit We maintain letter of credit arrangements with various financial institutions for up to $84 million. We had outstanding letters of credit of approximately $75 million as of December 31, 2009. Credit Ratings The table below summarizes our long-term debt ratings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 and 2008 Moodys S&P Fitch Corporate rating/Sr. Implied rating Ba2 BB NR Qwest Corporation Ba1 BBB- BBB- Qwest Capital Funding, Inc. B1 B+ BB Qwest Communications International Inc.* Ba3/B1 B+ BB+/BB NR = Not rated. * = QCII notes have various ratings. With respect to Moodys, a rating of Ba is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk, meaning that the future of the issuer cannot be considered to be well-assured. Often the protection of interest and principal payments may be very moderate, and thereby not well safeguarded during both good and bad times. A rating of B is considered speculative and is subject to high credit risk. The 1, 2, 3 modifiers show relative standing within the major categories, 1 being the highest, or best, modifier in terms of credit quality. With respect to S&P, any rating below BBB indicates that the security is speculative in nature. A rating of BBB indicates that there are currently expectations of adequate protection. A rating of BB indicates that the issuer currently has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation; however, it faces major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions, which could lead to the obligors inadequate capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. An obligation rated B is more vulnerable to nonpayment than obligations rated BB, but the obligor currently has capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. Adverse business, financial, or economic conditions will likely impair the obligors capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. The plus and minus symbols show relative standing within the major categories. With respect to Fitch, any rating below BBB indicates that the security is speculative in nature. A rating of BBB indicates that there are currently expectations of low credit risk. The capacity for payment of financial commitments is considered adequate but adverse changes in circumstances and economic conditions are more likely to impair this capacity. This is the lowest investment grade category. A rating of BB indicates that there is 54 Table of Contents a possibility of credit risk developing, particularly as the result of adverse economic change over time; however, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow financial commitments to be met. The plus and minus symbols show relative standing within major categories. Debt ratings by the various rating agencies reflect each agencys opinion of the ability of the issuers to repay debt obligations as they come due. In general, lower ratings result in higher borrowing costs and impaired ability to borrow under acceptable terms. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. While we have been able to obtain financing recently, given our current credit ratings, which as shown above are unchanged from December 31, 2008, our ability to raise additional capital under acceptable terms and conditions may be impaired. Although our current credit ratings remain unchanged from December 31, 2007, in 2009 S&P revised its outlook relating to our corporate rating from stable to negative due to the decline in our core wireline business, which is an industry-wide trend. S&P stated that we will need to moderate our financial profile by reducing debt and leverage to maintain our current rating. Risk Management We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in interest rates. The objective of our interest rate risk management program is to manage the level and volatility of our interest expense. We currently use derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk exposure and we may continue to employ them in the future. Near-Term Maturities As of December 31, 2009, we had $2.168 billion of long-term notes maturing in the subsequent 12 months. Included in the $2.168 billion is $1.265 billion of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes. We treat our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes as maturing in 2010 because they contain put and call provisions that first apply in November 2010. Under the terms of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes, upon conversion at a time at which the market-based conversion provisions described in Near-Term View are satisfied, we must pay the converting holders cash equal to at least the par value of the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2009, $1.265 billion of these notes were outstanding. While these notes were not convertible as of December 31, 2009 because specified, market-based conversion provisions were not met as of that date, these notes would be available for immediate conversion if those provisions are met during certain subsequent periods. In addition, holders have the option to require us to repurchase the notes for cash every five years on November 15, beginning in 2010, and receive cash from us equal to the par value of the notes. Even if we are not required to repurchase these notes in November 2010, we may still choose to call the notes at that time. We would be exposed to changes in interest rates at any time that we choose to refinance any of this debt. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the interest rate on a refinancing of the entire current portion of long-term notes would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $22 million. Floating-Rate Debt One objective of our short-term debt strategy is to take advantage of favorable interest rates by swapping floating interest rate debt to fixed interest rate debt using cash flow hedges. One objective of our long-term debt strategy is to achieve a more balanced ratio of fixed to floating interest rate debt by swapping a portion of our fixed interest rate debt to floating interest rate debt through fair value hedges. As of December 31, 2009, we had $750 million of floating interest rate debt outstanding, of which $250 million was exposed to changes in interest rates, and $400 million of fixed rate debt which we converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swaps. The exposure for these instruments is linked to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in LIBOR relative to the net $650 million of floating interest rate debt and swaps that is exposed to changes in interest rates would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $7 million. 55 Table of Contents Investments As of December 31, 2009, we had $2.358 billion invested in highly liquid cash-equivalent instruments and $95 million invested in auction rate securities. As interest rates change, so will the interest income derived from these instruments. Assuming that these investment balances were to remain constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $25 million. Combined Impacts The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of certain expense and income items, as well as net income, assuming 100-basis-point upward and downward shifts in market interest rates over the entire year. This sensitivity analysis reflects only the impact for the year ended December 31, 2009 from the borrowings and investments that were outstanding and hedges that were in effect as of December 31, 2009. It does not reflect the impact of long-term notes maturing in the subsequent 12 months or convertible borrowings because they would not have been affected by changes in market interest rates during the periods presented. As reported Assuming +100 basis point shift Assuming -100 basis point shift (Dollars in millions) 2009: Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet $ 1,089 $ 1,096 $ 1,082 Other incomenet (17 ) (41 ) 7 Net income 662 679 645 Future Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our estimated future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009: Payments Due by Period 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and Thereafter Total (Dollars in millions) Future contractual obligations (1) : Debt and lease payments: Long-term debt $ 2,693 $ 1,626 $ 1,500 $ 750 $ 1,900 $ 5,824 $ 14,293 Capital lease and other obligations 36 37 31 26 20 23 173 Interest on long-term borrowings and capital leases (2) 990 832 673 599 529 4,200 7,823 Operating leases 234 205 172 146 127 703 1,587 Total debt and lease payments 3,953 2,700 2,376 1,521 2,576 10,750 23,876 Other long-term liabilities 6 3 4 6 2 171 192 Purchase commitments: Telecommunications and information technology 178 2 2 1 1 184 IRU* operating and maintenance obligations 18 18 18 18 18 134 224 Advertising, promotion and other services (3) 111 63 39 30 25 63 331 Total purchase commitments 307 83 59 49 43 198 739 Non-qualified pension obligation 4 3 3 3 3 32 48 Post-retirement benefit obligation 75 76 75 75 73 1,476 1,850 Total future contractual obligations $ 4,345 $ 2,865 $ 2,517 $ 1,654 $ 2,697 $ 12,627 $ 26,705 56 Table of Contents * Indefeasible rights of use (1) The table does not include: our open purchase orders as of December 31, 2009. These purchase orders are generally at fair value, are generally cancelable without penalty and are part of normal operations; other long-term liabilities, such as accruals for legal matters and income taxes, that are not contractual obligations by nature. We cannot determine with any degree of reliability the years in which these liabilities might ultimately settle; cash funding requirements for pension benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $790 million at December 31, 2009. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust. Cash funding requirements for this trust are not included in this table as we are not able to reliably estimate required contributions to the trust. Cash funding requirements can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, the applicable discount rate at the end of the year, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. As a result it is difficult to determine future funding requirements with a high level of precision; however, in general, current funding laws and regulations require funding deficits to be paid over a seven year period unless the plan is fully funded before then. We will not be required to make a cash contribution to this plan in 2010. Based on currently available information, our projected required contribution in 2011 is $0 to $120 million. The information necessary to finalize our 2011 contribution calculations will not be available until later in 2010. It is also very likely, based on current funding laws and regulations, that significantly higher contributions will be required in 2012 and beyond. The amount of any required contributions in 2012 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations; certain post-retirement benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Although we had a $2.525 billion liability recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 representing the net benefit obligation for all post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits, not all of this amount is a contractual obligation and only the portion that we believe is a contractual obligation is reported in the table. Certain of these plans are unfunded and net payments made by us totaled $149 million in 2009, including payments for benefits that are not contractual obligations. Total undiscounted future payments estimated to be made by us for benefits that are both contractual obligations and non-contractual obligations are approximately $5.1 billion over approximately 80 years. However, this estimate is impacted by various actuarial and market assumptions, and ultimate payments will differ from this estimate. In 1992, a trust was created and funded to help cover the health care costs of retirees who are former occupational employees. We did not make any cash contributions to this trust in 2009 and do not expect to make any significant cash contributions to this trust in the future. We anticipate that the majority of the costs that have historically been paid out of this trust will need to be paid by us at some point in the future. As of December 31, 2009, the fair value of the trust assets was $863 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. In 2008 we estimated that the trust would be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for our occupational post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Based on returns on trust assets during 2009, we still believe that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for our occupational post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Thereafter, covered benefits for our eligible retirees who are former occupational employees will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the assets become liquid. This five year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimate of the annual long-term rate of return on the plan assets is 8.0% based on the currently held assets; however, this could vary widely in any given year. The benefits reimbursed from plan assets were $193 million in 2009. See additional information on our benefits plans in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report; 57 Table of Contents contract termination fees. These fees are non-recurring payments, the timing and payment of which, if any, is uncertain. In the ordinary course of business and to optimize our cost structure, we enter into contracts with terms greater than one year to use the network facilities of other carriers and to purchase other goods and services. Our contracts to use other carriers network facilities generally have no minimum volume requirements and are based on an interrelationship of volumes and discounted rates. Assuming we exited these contracts in 2010, the contract termination fees would be approximately $376 million. Under the same assumption, termination fees for these contracts to purchase goods and services would be $66 million. In the normal course of business, we believe the payment of these fees is remote; and potential indemnification obligations to counterparties in certain agreements entered into in the normal course of business. The nature and terms of these arrangements vary. Historically, we have not incurred significant costs related to performance under these types of arrangements. (2) Interest paid in all years may differ due to future refinancing of debt. Interest on our floating rate debt was calculated for all years using the rates effective as of December 31, 2009. (3) We have various long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments for advertising and promotion services, including advertising and marketing at sports arenas and other venues and events. We also have service related commitments with various vendors for data processing, technical and software support services. Future payments under certain service contracts will vary depending on our actual usage. In the table above we estimated payments for these service contracts based on the level of services we expect to receive. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support, and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, research and development services, or other relationships that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements or in the Future Contractual Obligations table above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified certain policies and estimates as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our past or present results of operations. For additional information on the application of these and other significant accounting policies, see Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. These policies and estimates are considered critical because they had a material impact, or they have the potential to have a material impact, on our consolidated financial statements and because they require significant judgments, assumptions or estimates. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made when accounting for the items described below are reasonable, based on information available at the time they are made. However, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Loss Contingencies and Litigation Reserves We are involved in several material legal proceedings, as described in more detail in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this report. We assess potential losses in relation to these and other pending or threatened tax and legal matters. For matters not related to income taxes, if a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we recognize an expense for the estimated loss. To the extent these estimates are more or less than the actual liability resulting from the resolution of these matters, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. If the differences are material, our consolidated financial statements could be materially impacted. If a loss is considered reasonably possible, we disclose the item and any determinable estimate of the loss if material but we do not recognize any expense for the potential loss. 58 Table of Contents For matters related to income taxes, if the impact of an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority, then we recognize a benefit for the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained. No portion of an uncertain tax position will be recognized if the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Though the validity of any tax position is a matter of tax law, the body of statutory, regulatory and interpretive guidance on the application of the law is complex and often ambiguous. Because of this, whether a tax position will ultimately be sustained may be uncertain. The overall tax liability recorded for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 considers the anticipated utilization of any applicable tax credits and NOLs. To the extent we have recorded tax liabilities that are more or less than the actual liability that ultimately results from the resolution of an uncertain tax position, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. Also, as we become aware of new interpretations of relevant tax laws and as we discuss our interpretations with taxing authorities, we may in the future change our assessments of the sustainability of an uncertain tax position or of the amounts that may be sustained upon audit. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made in accounting for these matters are reasonable, based on information currently available. However, as our assessments change and as uncertain tax positions are resolved, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. Deferred Taxes Our provision for income taxes includes amounts for tax consequences deferred to future periods. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflecting future tax consequences attributable to tax NOLs, tax credit carryforwards and differences between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and the tax bases of those assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are computed using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred taxes often involves an exercise of judgment related to the computation and realization of tax basis. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our assessment that tax positions taken, and the resulting tax basis, are more likely than not to be sustained if they are audited by taxing authorities. Also, assessing tax rates that we expect to apply and determining the years when the temporary differences are expected to affect taxable income requires judgment about the future apportionment of our income among the states in which we operate. These matters, and others, involve the exercise of significant judgment. Any changes in our practices or judgments involved in the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Tax Valuation Allowance We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities as described above. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred income tax assets to amounts that we believe are more likely than not to be recovered. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine whether adjustments to our valuation allowance are appropriate. In making this evaluation, we rely on our recent history of pre-tax earnings, estimated timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets, and our forecasts of future earnings, the latter two of which involve the exercise of significant judgment. As of December 31, 2006, we could not sustain a conclusion that it was more likely than not that we would realize any of our deferred tax assets resulting from our cumulative losses reported in the recent past as well as other factors. Consequently, we maintained a valuation allowance against those deferred tax assets. However, during 2007, we determined that it was more likely than not that we would realize the majority of our deferred tax assets and, therefore, we reversed a significant portion of the valuation allowance. In making our determination, we analyzed, among other things, our forecasts of future earnings and the nature and estimated timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2009, we again concluded that it was more likely than not that we would realize the majority of our deferred tax assets; therefore, our valuation allowance did not require material 59 Table of Contents adjustments. These forecasts and estimates are inherently judgmental and if we had used different assumptions, we may not have reversed the valuation allowance. Also, if forecasts of future earnings and the nature and estimated timing of future deductions and benefits change in the future, we may again determine that a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets is appropriate, which could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits We sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan (referred to as our pension plan) for substantially all management and occupational employees. In addition to this tax qualified pension plan, we also maintain a non-qualified pension plan for certain eligible highly compensated employees. We maintain post-retirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain eligible retirees. Pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits attributed to employees service during the year, as well as interest on benefit obligations, are accrued currently. Prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses are generally recognized as a component of net periodic expense over one of the following periods: (i) the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately nine years; (ii) the average remaining life of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately 18 years; or (iii) the term of the collective bargaining agreement, as applicable. Pension and post-retirement benefit expenses are recognized over the period in which the employee renders service and becomes eligible to receive benefits as determined using the projected unit credit method. In computing the pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits expenses and obligations, the most significant assumptions we make include discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, health care trend rates and our evaluation of the legal basis for plan amendments. The plan benefits covered by collective bargaining agreements as negotiated with our employees unions can also significantly impact the amount of expense, benefit obligations and pension assets that we record. The discount rate is the rate at which we believe we could effectively settle the benefit obligations as of the end of the year. We set our discount rates each year based upon the yields of high-quality fixed-income investments available at December 31 based on our future expected cash flows of the pension and post-retirement benefit plans. In making the determination of discount rates, we used the average yields of various bond matching sources and the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return we expect to earn on the plans assets. The rate of return is determined by the strategic allocation of plan assets and the long-term risk and return forecast for each asset class. The forecasts for each asset class are generated primarily from an analysis of the long-term expectations of various third party investment management organizations. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. To compute the expected return on pension and post-retirement benefit plan assets, we apply an expected rate of return to the market-related value of the pension plan assets and to the fair value of the post-retirement benefit plan assets adjusted for projected benefit payments to be made from the plan assets. With respect to equity assets held by our pension plan, we have elected to recognize actual returns on these equity assets ratably over a five year period when computing our market-related value; the unrecognized portion of actual returns on these equity assets is included in accumulated other comprehensive income. This method has the effect of reducing the impact on expenses of market volatility that may be experienced from year to year. With respect to bonds and other assets held by our pension plan and with respect to the assets held by our post-retirement benefit plans, we did not elect to recognize actual returns on these assets using this five-year ratable method. Therefore, the full impact of annual market volatility for these assets is reflected in the subsequent years net periodic combined benefits expense. 60 Table of Contents Changes in any of the above factors could impact general, administrative and other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations as well as the value of the liability and accumulated other comprehensive income of stockholders (deficit) equity on our consolidated balance sheets. If our assumed expected rates of return for 2009 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $78 million. If our assumed discount rates for 2009 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $38 million and our projected benefit obligation would have increased by approximately $1 billion. An increase of 100 basis points in the initial healthcare cost trend rate would have increased our post-retirement benefit expense by $4 million and increased our projected benefit obligations by $73 million. The trusts for the pension and post-retirement benefits plans hold investments in equities, fixed income, real estate and other assets such as private equity assets. The assets held by these trusts are reflected at estimated fair value as of December 31. See additional information on our trust investments in Note 11Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Revenue Recognition and Related Reserves We recognize revenue for services when the related services are provided. Recognition of certain payments received in advance of services being provided is deferred until the service is provided. These advance payments received, primarily activation fees and installation charges, as well as the associated customer acquisition costs, are deferred and recognized over the expected customer relationship period, which ranges from one to four years. Customer arrangements that include both equipment and services are evaluated to determine whether the elements are separable based on objective evidence. If the elements are deemed separable and separate earnings processes exist, total consideration is allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of the separate elements and the revenue associated with each element is recognized as earned. If these criteria are not satisfied, the total advance payment is deferred and recognized ratably over the longer of the contractual period or the expected customer relationship period. We believe that the accounting estimates related to customer relationship periods and to the assessment of whether bundled elements are separable are critical accounting estimates because: (i) they require management to make assumptions about how long we will retain customers; (ii) the assessment of whether bundled elements are separable is subjective; (iii) the impact of changes in actual retention periods versus these estimates on the revenue amounts reported in our consolidated statements of operations could be material; and (iv) the assessment of whether bundled elements are separable may result in revenue being reported in different periods than significant portions of the related costs. As the telecommunications market experiences greater competition and customers shift from traditional land-based telecommunications services to wireless and Internet-based services, our estimated customer relationship period could decrease and we will accelerate the recognition of deferred revenue and related costs over a shorter estimated customer relationship period. Restructuring, Realignment and Severance Charges Periodically, we commit to exit certain business activities, eliminate administrative and network locations or reduce our number of employees. The amount we record as restructuring, realignment or severance charges for these changes depends upon various assumptions, including severance costs, sublease income and costs, disposal costs, length of time on market for abandoned rented facilities and contractual termination costs. These estimates are inherently judgmental and may change materially based upon actual experience. The estimate of future losses of sublease income and disposal activity generally involves the most significant judgment. Due to the estimates and judgments involved in the application of each of these accounting policies and changes in our plans, these estimates and market conditions could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. 61 Table of Contents Economic Lives of Assets to be Depreciated or Amortized We perform annual internal studies or reviews to determine depreciable lives for our property, plant and equipment. These studies utilize models that take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, assumptions about technology evolution, and, in certain instances, actuarially determined probabilities to calculate the remaining life of our asset base. Due to rapid changes in technology and the competitive environment, selecting the estimated economic life of telecommunications plant, equipment and software requires a significant amount of judgment. We regularly review data on utilization of equipment, asset retirements and salvage values to determine adjustments to our depreciation rates. The effect of a one year increase or decrease in the estimated remaining useful lives of our property, plant and equipment would have decreased depreciation by approximately $300 million or increased depreciation by approximately $410 million, respectively. The effect of a one half year increase or decrease in the estimated remaining useful lives of our capitalized software would have decreased amortization by approximately $30 million or increased amortization by approximately $40 million, respectively. Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets We periodically perform evaluations of the recoverability of the carrying value of our long-lived assets using gross undiscounted cash flow projections. These evaluations require identification of the lowest level of identifiable, largely independent, cash flows for purposes of grouping assets and liabilities subject to review. The cash flow projections include long-term forecasts of revenue growth, gross margins and capital expenditures. All of these items require significant judgment and assumptions. We believe our estimates are reasonable, based on information available at the time they were made. However, if our estimates of our future cash flows had been different, we may have concluded that some of our long-lived assets were not recoverable, which would likely have caused us to record a material impairment charge. Also, if our future cash flows are significantly lower than our projections we may determine at some future date that some of our long-lived assets are not recoverable. Derivative Financial Instruments We sometimes use derivative financial instruments, specifically interest rate swap contracts, to manage interest rate risks. We execute these instruments with financial institutions we deem creditworthy and monitor our exposure to these counterparties. An interest rate hedge is generally designated as either a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge. In a cash flow hedge, a borrower of variable interest debt agrees with another party to make fixed payments equivalent to paying fixed rate interest on debt in exchange for receiving payments from the other party equivalent to receiving variable rate interest on debt, the effect of which is to eliminate some portion of the variability in the borrowers overall cash flows. In a fair value hedge, a borrower of fixed rate debt agrees with another party to make variable payments equivalent to paying variable rate interest on the debt in exchange for receiving fixed payments from the other party equivalent to receiving fixed rate interest on debt, the effect of which is to eliminate some portion of the variability in the fair value of the borrowers overall debt portfolio due to changes in interest rates. We recognize all derivatives on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. We generally designate the derivative as either a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge on the date on which we enter into the derivative instrument. Cash flows from derivative instruments that are fair value hedges or cash flow hedges are classified in cash flows from operations. For a derivative that is designated as and meets all of the required criteria for a cash flow hedge, we record in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheets any changes in the fair value of the derivative. We then reclassify these amounts into earnings as the underlying hedged item affects earnings. In addition, if there are any changes in the fair value of the derivative arising from ineffectiveness of the cash flow hedging relationship, we record those amounts immediately in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations. For a derivative that is designated as and meets all of the required criteria for a fair 62 Table of Contents value hedge, we record in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations the changes in fair value of the derivative and the underlying hedged item. However, if the terms of this type of derivative match the terms of the underlying hedged item such that we qualify to assume no ineffectiveness, then the fair value of the derivative is measured and the change in the fair value for the period is assumed to equal the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged item for the period, with no impact in other expense (income)net. We assess quarterly whether each derivative is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item or whether our initial assumption of no ineffectiveness is still valid. If we determine that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge, a derivative has ceased to be a highly effective hedge or our assumption of no ineffectiveness is no longer valid, then we discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively. We record immediately in earnings changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedges. For additional information on our derivative financial instruments, see Note 9Derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Investment Impairment Analysis As part of our cash management strategy, we have a variety of investments for which we are required to determine the fair value. Many of these investments are valued using published prices; other investments require judgment to determine the assumptions and factors that we should use to determine their fair value. For instance, there are reasonably possible alternative inputs for the factors we use to value our auction rate securities, primarily related to the probability that the securities will be redeemed early, the probability that a default will occur and the severity of that default. Using the least favorable inputs for these valuation factors that we believe are reasonably possible alternatives would result in an additional $14 million decrease in the fair market value estimate for the securities. We recognize changes in the fair value of certain investments in our consolidated statements of operations. However, changes in the fair value of other investments, specifically securities that are classified as available-for-sale, are treated differently. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognized in other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheets unless the change in value is considered to be an other-than-temporary impairment. If the issuers cease making required interest payments, we would recognize the portion of the other-than-temporary decline in fair value that is due to credit loss in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations. If we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before their values recover, we would recognize the entire other-than-temporary decline in fair value in other expense (income)net in our consolidated statements of operations. An available-for-sale investment is considered to be impaired if it loses value. When an available-for-sale investment is impaired, we are required to perform an analysis to determine whether the impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary. The determination of the type of impairment requires judgment. We evaluate the extent of the impairment, the credit rating of the securities and the issuer, whether the issuer continues to make the contractual cash payments, whether we believe the issuer will be able to continue to make the payments until the value recovers or the securities mature and our ability and intent to hold the investment until its value recovers or the securities mature. We may determine that the decline in fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary if our analysis of these factors indicates that we do not believe we will recover our investment in the securities. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted FSP APB 14-1. This FSP requires issuers of convertible debt that may be settled fully or partially in cash upon conversion to account separately for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt. The liability component is measured so that the effective interest expense associated with the convertible debt reflects our borrowing rate at the date of issuance for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature. This FSP applies to our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes. We applied this FSP retrospectively to 63 Table of Contents all periods presented in our consolidated financial statements. For additional information related to this FSP, see Note 8Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. The following is a summary of the incremental effects of the adoption of this FSP on our consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) Impact of adoption: Interest expense on long-term borrowings and capital leasesnet $ 52 $ 48 $ 43 Net income $ (32 ) $ (29 ) $ (27 ) Earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.01 ) $ (0.02 ) Diluted $ (0.02 ) $ (0.02 ) $ (0.02 ) The following is a summary of the incremental effects of the adoption of this FSP on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Impact of adoption: Assets: Long-term deferred income taxesnet $ (13 ) $ (40 ) Liabilities: Long-term borrowingnet of unamortized debt discount and other (50 ) (104 ) Total stockholders deficit $ (37 ) $ (63 ) Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted FSP Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (ASC 260). This FSP states that unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends are participating securities and must be included in the computation of earnings per common share pursuant to the two-class method. Under this FSP, our unvested restricted stock grants are now considered participating securities. The two-class method requires our earnings to be allocated between our common shareholders and the holders of our unvested restricted stock grants. Upon adoption, we retrospectively recomputed earnings per common share for all periods presented, which did not have a material effect on the earnings per common share we reported historically. The changes in the earnings per common share presented in these financial statements as compared to amounts previously presented are the result of the adoption of FSP APB 14-1. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted FSP Financial Accounting Standard, or FAS, 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly (ASC 820). This FSP provides guidelines for ensuring that fair value measurements are consistent with the principles presented in SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (ASC 820). The adoption of this FSP has not had a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments (ASC 320). This FSP provides additional guidance designed to create greater clarity and consistency in accounting for and presenting impairment losses on securities. The adoption of this FSP has not had a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. 64 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 (ASC 740), which prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure and present in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. On January 1, 2007, we recorded a transition adjustment associated with the adoption of FIN 48, which decreased our accumulated deficit by $48 million as a net result of decreasing our tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions and increasing interest accrued for uncertain tax positions. This transition adjustment is included in our consolidated statements of stockholders (deficit) equity and comprehensive income (loss), and other financial statements presented herein are based on consistent presentation of uncertain tax positions. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, Number 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force. This ASU establishes a new selling price hierarchy to use when allocating the sales price of a multiple element arrangement between delivered and undelivered elements. This ASU is generally expected to result in revenue recognition for more delivered elements than under current rules. We are required to adopt this ASU prospectively for new or materially modified agreements as of January 1, 2011. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU, but do not expect adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements.