Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations included elsewhere in this report. For additional information regarding foreign currency translation, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults Excluding the Effect of Foreign Currency Translation and Certain Charges included elsewhere in this report. Our Market Opportunity We compete in the global information, technology and services market for the life sciences and the broader healthcare industry. Historically, we concentrated our efforts in the market for information and consulting services primarily supporting the commercial functions of life sciences organizations, which we estimate to be a $5 billion market. In response to the needs of a broader set of life sciences clients for more specialized information, such as longitudinal anonymous patient data and clinical trial analytics, we have expanded our offerings to serve the market for information and services, which we estimate to be a $22 billion market. In addition, in response to our life sciences clients need to streamline operations, we offer an expanded range of technology services that include data warehousing, IT outsourcing, software applications and other services in the broader market for IT services, which, together, represent an additional $28 billion market among our life sciences clients. As a result, we now operate across a life sciences marketplace for information and technology services that we estimate to be $50 billion. We also have newer offerings in the $25 billion market for information and technology services for payers and providers and view this rapidly expanding market as an opportunity for further growth. In deriving estimates of the size of the various markets described above, we review third-party sources, which include estimates and forecasts of spending in various market segments, in combination with internal IMS research and analysis informed by our experience serving these market segments, as well as projected growth rates for each of these segments. 6 We believe there are five key trends affecting our end markets that will create increasing demand for our information and technology services solutions: Growth and innovation in the life sciences industry. The life sciences industry is a large and critical part of the global healthcare system, and, according to the latest information available from the IMS Market Prognosis service, is estimated to have generated approximately $1.1 trillion in revenue in 2015. According to our research, revenue growth in the life sciences industry globally is expected to range from 4% to 7% between 2016 and 2020, up from growth of 2.8% in 2012. The IMS Institute also estimates that 225 new molecular entities (NMEs) are expected to be approved between 2016 and 2020, compared to 184 between 2011 and 2015, and 146 between 2006 and 2010. Growth in access to healthcare in emerging markets. We believe there will be significant growth in healthcare spending in emerging markets, driven predominantly by a rapidly growing middle class in countries such as China and India. According to the IMS Institute, it is estimated that spending on pharmaceuticals in emerging markets will expand at a 7 to 10% CAGR through 2020. The rapid growth of emerging markets is making these geographies strategically important to life sciences organizations and, consistent with their approach in the developed markets, we expect these organizations to apply a high degree of sophistication to their commercial operations in these countries. For global companies, this requires highly localized knowledge and information assets, the development of market access strategies and benchmarking performance. In addition, local players are learning that they need to compete on the basis of improved information and analytics. Financial pressures driving the need for increased efficiency. Despite expected accelerating growth in the global life sciences market, we believe our clients will face operating margin pressure due to their changing product mix, pricing and reimbursement challenges, and rising costs of compliance. Product portfolios for life sciences companies have shifted toward specialty products with lower peak market sales potential than traditional primary care medicines. Our clients are looking for new ways to simplify processes and drive operational efficiencies including by using automation, consolidating vendors and adopting new technology options such as hosted and cloud-based applications. This provides opportunities for technology services vendors to capture and consolidate internal spending by providing lower-cost and variable-cost options that lower clients research and development, selling, marketing and administrative costs. Evolving need to integrate and structure expanding sources of data. Over the past decade, many health systems around the world have focused on digitizing medical records. While such records theoretically enhance access to data, relevant information is often unintegrated, unstructured, siloed in disparate software systems, or entered inconsistently. In addition, new sources of data from the internet, such as social media and information on limited patient pools, and information resulting from enhanced diagnostic technologies are creating new sources of healthcare data. In order to derive valuable insights from existing and expanding sources of information, clients need access to statistically significant data sets organized into databases that can be queried and analyzed. For example, RWE studies demonstrate practical and clinical efficacies, which we believe require the aggregation and integration of large clinical data sets across all care settings, types of therapies and patient cohorts. Longitudinal studies require analysis of anonymous patient diagnoses, treatments, procedures and laboratory test results to identify types of patients that will likely best respond to particular therapies. Finally, manufacturers also require the ability to analyze social media activity to identify the specific patient and advocacy groups that influence the adoption of new orphan drugs. This information is highly relevant to all healthcare stakeholders and we believe the opportunity to more broadly apply healthcare data can only be realized through structuring, organizing and integrating new and existing forms of data in conjunction with sophisticated analytics. Need for demonstrated value in healthcare. Participants in the healthcare industry are focused on improving quality and reducing costs, both of which require assessment of quality and value of therapies and providers. As a result, physicians no longer make prescribing decisions in isolation, but rather in the context of guidance and rules from payers, integrated delivery networks and governments. We believe life sciences companies are working to bring alignment across constituents on the value of their treatments in order to successfully develop and commercialize new therapies. There is increasing pressure on life sciences companies to support and justify the value of their therapies. Many new drugs that are being approved are more expensive than existing therapies, and will likely receive heightened scrutiny by payers to determine whether the existing treatment options would be sufficient. Additionally, many new specialty drugs are molecular-based therapies and require a more detailed understanding of clinical factors and influencers that demonstrate therapeutic value. As a result, leading life sciences companies are utilizing more sophisticated analytics for insight driven decisions. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of these global trends in healthcare. Beyond our proprietary information assets, we have developed key capabilities to assess opportunities to develop and commercialize therapies, support and defend the value of medicines and help our clients operate more efficiently through the application of insight-driven decision-making and cost-efficient technology solutions. 7 Our Strengths Comprehensive information assets and collection network. The scale of our information assets, breadth and depth of our data supplier network, and our global reach are distinct advantages as clients value quality, consistency and continuity across geographies to accurately measure trends and their performance. With over 15 petabytes of proprietary data sourced from over 100,000 data suppliers covering over 800,000 data feeds globally, we have one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of healthcare information in the world, which includes over 500 million comprehensive, longitudinal anonymous patient records. Based on this data, we deliver information and insights on approximately 90% of the worlds pharmaceuticals, as measured by sales revenue. We have proprietary healthcare data management and projection methodologies developed over a long history, which enable us to extrapolate more precise insights from large-scale databases to provide greater granularity and segmentation for our clients. We continue to invest in new technology to source data that is valued by our clients, including social media analytics and mobile health solutions to continuously add records to our data sets, and refine our information and analytic methods. Use of our proprietary encryption technologies allows anonymous information to be linked across different care settings and across data sets, resulting in more complete healthcare information about anonymous patients and a deeper understanding of real world treatment, cost and outcomes. Scaled healthcare specific technology infrastructure. To manage our proprietary, global information base, we have built what we believe is one of the largest and most sophisticated information technology infrastructures in healthcare. By processing data from over 55 billion healthcare transactions annually, our infrastructure connects complex healthcare data while applying a wide range of privacy, security, operational, legal and contractual protections for data in response to local law, supplier requirements and industry leading practices. We have Offering Development and Delivery Hubs, along with global and regional Centers of Excellence (COEs) around the world, and more than 15,000 associates, including over 1,200 experts in areas such as biostatistics, data science, bioinformatics, healthcare economics, outcomes research, epidemiology, pharmacology and key therapeutic areas. Our distributed global operations infrastructure allows us to support client deliverables 24 hours a day, seven days a week, in more than 100 countries. We believe the scale, global footprint and connectivity our infrastructure provides is unique within the healthcare vertical and will be of increasing value to our clients in a period where cost pressures will grow. As part of our information technology infrastructure, we employ a wide variety of proprietary technologies and processes to source, collect, cleanse, bridge, edit and organize data. We then apply a combination of sophisticated computer processing, statistical sampling and projection procedures, advanced analytics, forecasting methodologies and our skills and experience to create and deliver our offerings to clients. The following is an overview of the technologies and processes we employ: Data Sourcing . We collect information from a wide variety of data suppliers, including manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, laboratories, health plans and other payors, governments, services organizations, information technology vendors, patients and others. We are able to collect information in a wide variety of formats and through various methods of delivery. We frequently license some of our proprietary technologies (e.g., encryption programs, data standardization algorithms, data editing and collection software) to data suppliers to support the accurate and privacy-enhanced collection of data by the supplier and secure delivery of that data to us. Data Receipt . We work closely with data suppliers to support the timely and secure delivery of data to us. Following receipt of data from our suppliers, we employ a variety of initial quality control checks and processes (based on proprietary metrics and parameters) to ensure data has been properly delivered to us. Data Editing / Validation . Following data receipt and initial quality control checks, we use proprietary data cleansing, editing, and other sophisticated tools (based on proprietary metrics, parameters and methodologies) to find and resolve data quality issues in the data supplied to us. Data Bridging / Reference Files . We receive data relating to tens of millions of transactions each week. To standardize data for each transaction, which is received from a wide variety of sources who frequently use their own proprietary reference numbers and codes, and allow for alignment of the data prior to projection or aggregation, we bridge (i.e., link) information received from suppliers to our reference files. We develop and maintain these reference files for various types of information, including medicines, diagnoses, treatment modalities, distribution centers, health care offices, integrated health networks, insurance plans and data classification schemes. Database Management . When data has successfully passed through the processes referenced above, it is added to applicable IMS databases. In connection with the movement of the information to these databases, we employ additional quality control checks and processes. Projection Methodologies . Most of our offerings are derived from the use of statistically representative samples. More than 100 statisticians support the development of proprietary sample designs and projection methodologies to estimate activities to achieve a high degree of accuracy. Estimation Methodologies . For our larger datasets, we employ data imputation methods that allow us to estimate for any missing or questionable data until the underlying issue is resolved. By using these estimation methodologies, analysis has shown our offerings are more accurate and not prone to trending aberrations caused by issues in the data flow process. 8 Client Reports . After the completion of the processes described above, we are ready to create reports and other information deliverables for clients based on their specifications. We employ various methods of report delivery, including secure portals, software-as-a-serv ice, direct delivery of data into client data warehouses or direct delivery to mobile devices. Highly differentiated technology services fully integrated with IMS information. Our ability to integrate technology services with our data creates mission-critical, actionable intelligence that improves our overall value proposition to our clients. Our expanding set of sophisticated human capital resources and technology services offerings combined with our deep understanding of our scaled information assets provides what we believe to be a competitive advantage in an environment where clients require better performance. For example, in 2012, we introduced our healthcare-specific intelligent cloud, IMS One, which helps our clients fully recognize the benefits of our infrastructure. Our cloud is unique in the healthcare industry because it pre-integrates applications with IMS data and provides interoperability across IMS and third party applications. We believe that these benefits both reduce complexity associated with data integration and save our clients time and costs in synchronizing data across applications. We envision that over time IMS One will become an industry standard around which applications are hosted and information shared on an interoperable basis. Long standing client relationships that are expanding. The breadth of the intelligent, actionable information we provide is not comprehensively available from any other source and would be difficult and costly for another party to replicate. We believe our information and technology services are deeply integrated into our clients workflow. We maintain long-standing relationships and high renewal rates with clients due to the value of the services and solutions we provide, as well as support the need for globally consistent information to enable comprehensive trend analysis at the local, regional, national and multi-country levels. For example, we believe the majority of pharmaceutical companies across more than 50 countries rely on our information to monitor the performance of their sales representatives and use it as a key factor in making ongoing compensation decisions. The average length of our relationships with our top 25 clients, as measured by revenue, is over 25 years and our retention rate for our top 1,000 clients from 2014 to 2015 was 99%. Serving over 5,000 clients creates significant opportunity to expand the breadth of services we provide to our clients. Unique and scalable operating model. We believe we have an attractive operating model due to the scalability of our solutions, the recurring nature of our revenue and the low capital intensity/high free cash flow conversion of our business. Our global infrastructure and healthcare focus allows us to provide large-scale healthcare data, technology and service solutions to clients rapidly and cost-effectively. In 2015, our revenue generated by information offerings represented approximately 51% of our total revenue, approximately 90% of which came from subscription or licensed-based contracts in each of the last three fiscal years and, as a result, has historically been recurring and predictable. Given the fixed-cost nature of our data, we are able to scale our solutions quickly and at low marginal cost. Revenue from our technology services offerings represented approximately 49% of our total revenue, consisting of a mix of projects, large-scale engagements, multi-year outsourcing contracts and multi-year Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) licenses. Additionally, we have executed a multi-year plan to streamline our organization and enhance our technology platform to accommodate more complex analytics and significant additional data volumes with limited incremental technology costs. We believe our recurring revenue, combined with our leading offerings will continue to contribute to our long-term growth and strong operating margins and flexibility in allocating capital. Our Growth Strategy We believe we are well positioned for continued growth across the markets we serve. Our strategy for achieving growth includes: Build upon our extensive client relationships . We have a diversified base of over 5,000 clients in over 100 countries, and have expanded our client value proposition since the Merger to now address a broader market for information and technology services which we estimate to be $50 billion. Through the development of IMS One and focused internal and external development of key client applications, such as customer relationship management (CRM), channel management, incentive compensation, social media and clinical trials optimization, we have built a platform that allows us to be a more complete partner to our clients. We believe we are in the early stages of penetrating this expanding market within our global life sciences client base. Key elements of this strategy include: further integrating our existing technology services to provide clients with interoperable solutions; increasing the number of clients that leverage our technology services offerings, including IMS One; using our global presence and efficient operating model to scale new applications and solutions rapidly and efficiently across clients, markets and geographies; and expanding the number of clients that choose to drive efficiencies by consolidating their vendor needs with us. 9 Capitalize on our presence in emerging markets . We believe China, India, Brazil and Russia, together with many of the 50-plus other emerging markets in which we operate, will accelerate their healthca re spending over the next five years. We have an established presence in these markets, generating $473 million of revenue for 2015 (approximately 16% of our revenue) and growing at approximately 13% constant currency CAGR since 2010. We serve both multina tional companies and local clients. For example, China has over 5,000 domestic pharmaceutical companies, a number of which are large with global aspirations. Key elements of this strategy include: partnering with existing life sciences clients as they expand their businesses into emerging markets; continuing to grow our existing services in emerging markets while simultaneously introducing new services drawn from our global portfolio; and building relationships with local companies that are expanding beyond their home markets by capitalizing on the global credibility and consistency of our platform. Continue to innovate. We believe a significant opportunity exists to continue to enhance our information and analytics offerings and expand our technology services offerings to capitalize on the evolving healthcare environment. Our recent investments in human capital, technology and services capabilities position us to continue to pursue rapid innovation within the life sciences sector and the broader healthcare marketplace. An example of a recent innovation includes our development of E360, a suite of SaaS solutions applications designed for RWE, that enables pharmaceutical customers to manage, access, and analyze patient-level real-world data sets to enable real-time analytics, dramatically cutting the time and effort needed to work with the data. Expand portfolio through strategic acquisitions. We have and expect to continue to acquire assets and businesses that strengthen our value proposition to clients. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate and integrate acquisitions that have created value for stockholders. Since the beginning of 2011, we have invested approximately $1.2 billion in 42 acquisitions. As the global healthcare landscape evolves, we expect that there will be a growing number of acquisition opportunities across the life sciences, payer and provider sectors. We will continue to invest in strategic acquisitions to grow our platform and enhance our ability to provide more services to our clients and expect to seek opportunities, primarily in the areas of technological platforms, data suppliers and consulting services providers. Expand the penetration of our offerings to the broader healthcare marketplace. We believe that substantial opportunities exist to expand penetration of our addressable market and further integrate our offerings in a broader cross-section of the healthcare marketplace. Key elements of this strategy include: continuing to sell innovative solutions to life sciences clients in areas we have recently entered, such as clinical trial analytics; leveraging our comprehensive collection of healthcare information to provide critical insights to payers and providers, enabling advanced patient analytics and population health management; and utilizing our proprietary information and analytics to address the evolving needs of the broader healthcare marketplace. The development of our MD360 Provider Performance Management platform highlights augmentation of our core capabilities to penetrate a new and growing area of healthcare information management by using our proprietary library of clinical and cost measures to determine and publish highly specific performance targets for providers. Our Offerings We offer hundreds of distinct services, applications and solutions to help our clients make critical decisions and perform better. While historically our offerings focused mainly in information and analytics, we now routinely integrate information with technology services to ensure our clients receive the most value from our information to enable them to incorporate insights into their workflow. These offerings complement each other and can provide enhanced value to our clients when delivered together, with each driving demand for the other. Our principal information offerings include: National information offerings. Our national offerings comprise unique services in more than 70 countries that provide consistent country level performance metrics related to sales of pharmaceutical products, prescribing trends, medical treatment and promotional activity across multiple channels including retail, hospital and mail order. These products are an integral part of critical processes in life science companies around the world and are also used extensively by the investment and financial sectors that deal with life science companies. Clients use these products to measure relative performance, assess market opportunity, determine brand and company strategy, and understand market dynamics. The products are available in a range of frequencies from weekly to annually, and are delivered in a variety of formats, including online hosted, PCs and mobile platforms. 10 Sub-national information offerings. Our sub-national offerings comprise unique services in more than 60 countries that provide a consistent measurement of sales or prescribing activity at the regional, zip code and individual prescriber level (depending on regulation in country). These prod ucts are used extensively, with a majority of pharmaceutical sales organizations within these countries dependent on these services to set goals, determine resourcing, measure performance and calculate compensation. OneKey. Our widely used reference database that tracks more than 14 million healthcare professionals in 70+ countries, providing a comprehensive view of health care practitioners that is critical for the commercial success of marketing and sales initiatives. Our principal technology services offerings include: Technology solutions . We provide an extensive range of cloud-based applications and associated implementation services. SaaS solutions support a wide range of commercial and regulatory processes, including multi-channel marketing, CRM, performance management, incentive compensation, territory alignment, roster management, call planning, compliance reporting and Master Data Management. These solutions are used by healthcare companies to manage, optimize and execute their commercial strategies in an orchestrated manner while meeting their regulatory obligations. Using proprietary algorithms, we combine our country-level data, healthcare expertise and therapeutic knowledge in over 100 countries to create our Global Market Insight family of offerings such as MIDAS, Analytics Link and Disease Insights, which provides a leading source of insight into international market dynamics and are used by most large pharmaceutical companies. Real-World Evidence solutions . We enable clients to use anonymous patient-level data to understand treatments, outcomes, and costs to inform and advance healthcare decision making. With patient privacy and security safeguards, we offer data assets that integrate medical claims, prescriptions, electronic medical records, biomarkers and government statistics as needed for research requirements. Our propriety technologies and advanced analytic skills enable us to help clients manage and use this information to understand the effectiveness and economic efficiency of drugs in real-world use. Also with expertise in health economics and outcomes research, epidemiology, biostatistics, and local healthcare issues, we help biopharmaceutical companies engage more productively with health plans, providers and government agencies. Workflow analytics and consulting services. We provide a broad set of strategic, analytic and support services to help the commercial operations of life sciences companies successfully transform their commercial models, engage more effectively with the healthcare stakeholders and reduce their operating costs. Our global teams leverage local market knowledge, therapeutic area expertise and our global information resources to assist our clients with portfolio, brand and commercial strategy, as well as pricing and market access. We leverage our global technology infrastructure and deep understanding of information and our clients operations to provide workflow analytics and outsourced services to sales operations, market research, brand planning and managed markets as well as to provide clients with interoperable solutions rather than individual products and services. Our Data Suppliers We maintain a diverse supplier base to support the information needs of our clients. Over the past six decades, we have developed and maintained strong relationships with data suppliers in each market in which we operate. These suppliers include manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, laboratories, health plans and other payors, governments, services organizations, information technology vendors, patients and others. We frequently license IMS proprietary technologies (e.g., encryption programs, data standardization algorithms, data editing and collection software) to data suppliers to support the accurate and privacy-enhanced collection of data by the supplier and secure delivery of that data to us. We have historical connections with many of the relevant trade associations and professional associations. We devote significant human and financial resources to our data collection efforts and are adding new suppliers and new data sources every year to provide the most relevant information to our clients. Many of our data suppliers are also clients. For example, we offer performance monitoring and segmentation services to retail pharmacies, services that have become critical to supporting retailer growth objectives. Developing and providing services to suppliers supports a continuation of long-term supply relationships. Our contractual arrangements with our data suppliers number in the thousands. Typical data supply contracts specify the data to be provided to us, the frequency of data delivery (e.g., daily, weekly, monthly), data quality obligations, data use rights, and consideration provided by us in exchange for the data (e.g., reports, services, remuneration). These contracts are tailored based on the type of data collected, the market, local law and the negotiated outcome with each counterparty and therefore can vary significantly in their terms. These contracts reflect a range of commitment terms from one year to ten years, with larger data supply contracts typically having a contract term of five years. 11 Our Technology We maintain what we believe is one of the largest and most sophisticated information technology infrastructures in healthcare globally. Our distributed global operations infrastructure supports client deliverables 24 hours a day, seven days a week, in more than 100 countries. This global infrastructure, which connects our data center in Carlstadt, New Jersey and Paris, France with our regional and local data centers around the world via our global network serves as the backbone for processing over 55 billion healthcare transactions annually. In addition, we maintain Offering Development and Delivery Hubs, along with global and regional COEs around the world, each with a focus area of expertise. In India, a team of over 2,000 technology experts support services delivery, software development and data management. Analytical services are deployed using common methodologies across each offering to promote consistent quality for each client deliverable. In Manila, The Philippines, we combine IT and medical resources (with over 700 specialists in healthcare and IT) to clean and standardize information from data suppliers around the world. Beijing, China is home to our innovative and proprietary statistical methodologies center. Our experts here are part of a global team that manages the statistical validity of data worldwide and guide how the data can be used. In Madrid, Spain, our experts code and manage core reference data worldwide. More than 200 IT and medical specialists with native skills in over 15 languages link information assets through in-house developed software platforms for master data management. Our Offering Development and Delivery hubs are based in London, United Kingdom; Paris, France; Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania; Warren, New Jersey and Seattle, Washington. Our product development teams leverage methodologies to release technology platforms and business intelligence tools that facilitate our clients ability to gain insight into information. Our applications are deployed on a common technical architecture allowing re-use across geographical locations and providing a common interface for end users. Central and regional production-focused COEs are located across the globe to efficiently support the delivery of IMS services. The Manila COE provides data cleaning and standardizing services, production management, and quality control operations. We selected Manila because there is wide availability of relevant healthcare skills, English is a first language, and it provides an efficient cost structure. The Madrid COE focuses on maintaining our reference management operations. The Chile based Operations Center of Latin America Regional hub provides time zone sensitive production services to the Latin America, Canada and U.S. business units. The Mexico City COE serves Spanish-speaking Latin America with experts in Technology Services. The Istanbul COE provides language specific production services to the North Africa, South Europe, Middle East and East Europe regions. In contrast to the central offering hubs, the regional COEs are generally focused on activities that are more dependent on specific languages or in some cases where we need alignment of time zones. Our Clients Sales to companies in life sciences, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, device and diagnostic companies, and consumer health companies, accounted for approximately 90% of our revenue in 2015. Nearly all of the top 100 global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, measured by revenue, are clients, and many of these companies subscribe to reports and services in many countries. Other clients include payers, government and regulatory agencies, providers, pharmaceutical distributors, and pharmacies. Our client base is broad in scope and enables us to avoid dependence on any single client. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, our largest customer accounted for approximately 5% of our gross revenue. Our Competition We compete with a broad and diverse set of businesses. While we believe no competitor provides the combination of geographical reach and breadth of our services, we generally compete in the countries in which we operate with other information, analytics, technology, services and consulting companies, as well as with the in-house capabilities of our clients. Also, we compete with certain government agencies, private payers and other healthcare stakeholders that provide their data directly to others. In addition to country-by-country competition, we have a number of regional and global competitors in the marketplace as well. Our offerings compete with various firms, including Accenture, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Covance, Deloitte, Evidera, GfK, Health Market Science, IBM, Infosys, inVentiv Health, Kantar Health, McKinsey, Nielsen, OptumInsight, Parexel, Press Ganey, Quintiles, RTI Health Solutions, Symphony Health Solutions, Synovate Healthcare, The Advisory Board, Trizetto, Veeva, Verisk, and ZS Associates. We also compete with a broad range of new entrants and start-ups that are looking to bring new technologies and business models to healthcare information services and technology services. 12 Privacy Management and Security Patient health information is among the most sensitive of personal information, and it is critically important that information about an individuals healthcare is properly protected from inappropriate access, use and disclosure. For decades, our market research business was built using health information that did not identify a patientlong before the passage of HIPAA or other privacy laws. We continue to engage in strong privacy and security practices in the collection, processing, analysis, reporting and use of information. We employ a wide variety of methods to manage privacy and security, including: governance, frameworks and models to promote good decision making and accountability; a layered approach to privacy and security management to avoid a single point of failure; ongoing evaluation of privacy and security practices to promote continuous improvement; use of safeguards and controls, including: technical safeguardsfor example, technology and related policies and procedures to protect healthcare information and control access to it; administrative safeguardsfor example, administrative actions and related policies and procedures to manage the selection, development, implementation and maintenance of measures to protect healthcare information; physical safeguardsfor example, physical measures and related policies and procedures to protect electronic information systems and related buildings and equipment from natural and environmental hazards, and unauthorized intrusion; collaboration with data suppliers and trusted third parties for our syndicated data offerings to remove identifiable information or employ effective encryption or other techniques to render information anonymous before data is delivered to us; and working closely with leading researchers, policy makers, thought leaders and others in a variety of fields relevant to the application of effective privacy and security practices, including statistical, epidemiological and cryptographic sciences, legal, information security and compliance, and privacy. Our Intellectual Property We create, own and maintain a wide array of intellectual property assets which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business. Our intellectual property assets include: patents and patent applications related to our innovations, products and services; trademarks and trademark applications related to our brands, products and services; copyrights in software and databases; trade secrets relating to data processing, statistical methodologies, editing and bridging techniques, business rules and other aspects of our business; and other intellectual property rights and licenses of various kinds. We are licensed to use certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others, and, similarly, other companies are licensed on a non-exclusive basis to use certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by us. We seek to protect our intellectual property assets through patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark and other laws of the United States and other jurisdictions, and through confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. A patent generally has a term of 20 years from the time the full patent application is filed. As we build a patent portfolio over time, the terms of individual patents will vary. While patents can help maintain the competitive differentiation of certain products and services and maximize the return on research and development investments, no single patent is in itself essential to our business as a whole. Further, in order to replace expiring patents and licenses or replace obsolete intellectual property, we attempt to obtain new intellectual property through protection of key innovation from a combination of our ongoing research and development activities, acquisitions of other companies and licensing of intellectual property from third parties. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with third parties with whom we conduct business, in order to secure ownership rights to, limit access to, and restrict disclosure of our proprietary information. The technology and other intellectual property rights owned and licensed by us are of importance to our business, although our management believes that our business, as a whole, is not dependent upon any one intellectual property or group of such properties. We consider our trademark and related names, marks and logos to be of material importance to our business, and we have registered or applied for registration for certain of these trademarks including IMS Health, IMS, the IMS logo, IMS One, MIDAS, OneKey, Xponent, DDD, MD360 Provider Performance Management and Evidence360, in the United States and other jurisdictions and aggressively seek to protect them. 13 Our Employees As of December 31, 2015, we have more than 15,000 employees worldwide. Almost all of these employees are full-time. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a union. In Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain, we have Works Councils, which are a legal requirement in those countries. We also have a European Works Council, which is a requirement under European Union laws. Management considers its relations with our employees to be good and to have been maintained in a normal and customary manner. Available Information Our company website is http://www.imshealth.com . Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are available, free of charge, through the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.imshealth.com or from the SECs website at www.sec.gov , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information on our website does not constitute part of this report. Also posted on our website are our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the charters for our Audit Committee, Leadership Development and Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct governing our directors, officers and employees, and our Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers. Copies of our SEC reports and corporate governance information are available in print upon the request of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), we will post on our website any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct or the Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers or any waiver of either such policy applicable to any of our senior financial officers, executive officers or directors. Additionally, our filings with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business We rely on third parties to provide certain data. Our data suppliers might restrict our use of or refuse to license data, which could lead to our inability to provide certain services and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Each of our information services is derived from data we collect from third parties. These data suppliers are numerous and diverse, reflecting the broad scope of information that we collect and use in our business. Although we typically enter into long-term contractual arrangements with many of these suppliers of data, at the time of entry into a new contract or renewal of an existing contract, suppliers may increase restrictions on our use of such data, increase the price they charge us for data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. In addition, during the term of any data supply contract, suppliers may fail to adhere to our data quality control standards or fail to deliver data. Further, although no single individual data supplier is material to our business, if a number of suppliers collectively representing a significant amount of data that we use for one or more of our services were to impose additional contractual restrictions on our use of or access to data, fail to adhere to our quality-control standards, repeatedly fail to deliver data or refuse to provide data, now or in the future, our ability to provide those services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. Failure to meet productivity objectives under our internal business transformation initiatives could adversely impact our competitiveness and harm our operating results. We are pursuing business transformation initiatives to update technology, increase innovation and obtain operating efficiencies. As part of these initiatives, we seek to improve our productivity, flexibility, quality, functionality and cost savings by investing in the development and implementation of global platforms and integration of our business processes and functions to achieve economies of scale. For example, we hired and trained more than 500 people to form a COE in Manila, The Philippines for standardizing and cleaning data received from data suppliers, developed updated tools for standardizing and cleaning data, are moving local standardizing and cleaning from countries around the world to the Manila COE, and retired local standardizing and cleaning systems. These various initiatives may not yield their intended gains, which may impact our competitiveness and our ability to meet our growth objectives and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unsuccessful at investing in growth opportunities, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities, including the development and acquisition of new data, technologies and services to meet our clients needs. For example, we are expanding our services and technology offerings, such as the development of a cloud-based platform with a growing number of applications to support commercial operations for life sciences 14 companies (e.g., multi-channel marketing, marketing campaign management, CRM, incentive compens ation management, targeting and segmentation, performance management and other applications). We also continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities in emerging markets, such as the development, launch and enhancement of services in China, India, Russia, Turkey and other countries. We believe healthcare spending in these emerging markets will continue to grow over the next five years, and we consider our presence in these markets to be an important focus of our growth strategy. There is no assurance that our investment plans or growth strategy will be successful or will produce a sufficient or any return on our investments. Further, if we are unable to develop new technologies and services, clients do not purchase our new technologies and services, our new technologies and services do not work as intended or there are delays in the availability or adoption of our new technologies and services, then we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur slower than anticipated. Additionally, although we expect continued growth in healthcare spending in emerging markets, such spending may occur more slowly or not at all, and we may not benefit from our investments in these markets. We plan to fund growth opportunities with cash from operations or from future financings. There can be no assurance that those sources will be available in sufficient amounts to fund future growth opportunities when needed. Any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Data protection, privacy and similar laws restrict access, use and disclosure of information, and failure to comply with or adapt to changes in these laws could materially and adversely harm our business. Patient health information is among the most sensitive of personal information and it is critical that information about an individuals healthcare is properly protected from inappropriate access, use and disclosure. Laws restricting access, use and disclosure of such information include the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the European Unions Data Protection Directive (which may be added to or amended by the proposed General data Protection Regulation or other regulations in the future), Canadas Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act and other data protection, privacy and similar national, state/provincial and local laws. We have established frameworks, models, processes and technologies to manage privacy for many data types, from a variety of sources, and under myriad privacy and data protection laws worldwide. In addition, we rely on our data suppliers to deliver information to us in a form and in a manner that complies with applicable privacy and data protection laws. These laws are complex and there is no assurance that the safeguards and controls employed by us or our data suppliers will be sufficient to prevent a breach of these laws, or that claims will not be filed against us or our data suppliers despite such safeguards and controls. For example, in February 2014, a group of individuals filed a civil lawsuit in Korea against IMS Health Korea Ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary (IMS Korea), the Korean Pharmaceutical Association (KPA) and a KPA affiliate that supplies data to IMS Korea. The lawsuit alleges the KPA affiliate collected plaintiffs personal information without the necessary consent in violation of applicable privacy laws and transferred such information to IMS Korea for sale to customers. In addition, in July 2015, indictments were issued by the Seoul Central District Prosecutors Office in South Korea against IMS Korea and two of its employees, among others, alleging improper handling of sensitive health information in violation of applicable privacy laws. See Legal Proceedings. Alleged or actual failure to comply with such laws may result in, among other things, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, data being blocked from use or liability under contractual provisions. Laws and expectations relating to privacy continue to evolve, and we continue to adapt to changing needs. Nevertheless, changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide services to our clients or maintain our profitability. There is ongoing concern from privacy advocates, regulators and others regarding data protection and privacy issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection and privacy laws has been increasing. Also, there are ongoing public policy discussions regarding whether the standards for de-identified, anonymous or pseudonomized health information are sufficient, and the risk of re-identification sufficiently small, to adequately protect patient privacy. These discussions may lead to further restrictions on the use of such information. There can be no assurance that these initiatives or future initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to access and use data or to develop or market current or future services. Data protection, privacy and similar laws protect more than patient information, and although they vary by jurisdiction, these laws can extend to employee information, business contact information, provider information and other information relating to identifiable individuals. Failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and liability under contractual provisions. In addition, compliance with such laws may require increased costs to us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could impact our ability to provide the same level of service to our clients, require us to modify our offerings or increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 15 Security breaches and unauthorized use of our IT systems and information, or the IT sys tems or information in the possession of our vendors, could expose us, our clients, our data suppliers or others to risk of loss. We rely upon the security of our computer and communications systems infrastructure to protect us from cyber attacks and unauthorized access. Cyber attacks can include malware, computer viruses, hacking or other significant disruption of our computer, communications and related systems. Although we take steps to manage and avoid these risks and to prevent their recurrence, our preventive and remedial actions may not be successful. Such attacks, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or fines, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. Publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with clients and data suppliers and reduce demand for our services. We also store proprietary and sensitive information in connection with our business, which could be compromised by a cyber attack. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, an inappropriate disclosure of proprietary or sensitive information, an inability to access data sources, or an inability to process data or provide our offerings to our clients, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our data suppliers and clients (including loss of suppliers and clients), lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business. We may be required to incur significant costs to alleviate, remedy or protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. We may also face inquiry or increased scrutiny from government agencies as a result of any such disruption or breach. While we have insurance coverage for certain instances of a cyber security breach, our coverage may not be sufficient if we suffer a significant attack or multiple attacks. Any such breach or disruption could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation as a provider of mission-critical services. Some of our vendors have significant responsibility for the security of certain of our data centers and computer-based platforms. Also, our data suppliers have responsibility for security of their own computer and communications environments. These third parties face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. Accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches to their computer and communications systems or those that they operate for us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. Hardware and software failures, delays in the operation of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may adversely impact us. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. A failure of our network or data-gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While many of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have excess or standby computer processing or network capacity everywhere in the world to avoid disruption in the receipt, processing and delivery of data in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage, breaches of security, epidemics and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide sufficient processing or network capacity to transfer data could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. Such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver services to our clients, and increase our costs. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements, improvements and inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, epidemics and acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could result in a material adverse effect to our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any such failure, disruption or delay could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation. Consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate may reduce the volume of services purchased by consolidated clients following an acquisition or merger, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Mergers or consolidations among our clients have in the past and could in the future reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. When companies consolidate, overlapping services previously purchased separately are usually purchased only once by the combined entity, leading to loss of revenue. Other services that were previously purchased by one of the merged or consolidated entities may be deemed unnecessary or cancelled. If our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. There can be no assurance as to 16 the degree to which we may be able to address the revenue impact of such consolidation. Any of these developments could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Laws restricting pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices may adversely impact demand for our services. There have been a significant number of laws, legislative initiatives and regulatory actions over the years that seek to limit pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. For example, three states in 2006 and 2007 passed laws restricting the use of prescriber identifiable information for the purpose of promoting branded prescription medicines. Although these laws were subsequently declared to be unconstitutional based on a decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in Sorrell v. IMS Health in 2011, we are unable to predict whether, and in what form, other initiatives may be introduced or actions taken at the state or Federal levels to limit pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. In addition, while we will continue to seek to adapt our services to comply with the requirements of these laws (to the extent applicable to our services), if enacted, there can be no assurance that our efforts to adapt our offerings will be successful and provide the same financial contribution to us. There can also be no assurance that future legislative initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to develop or market current or future offerings, or that any future laws will not diminish the demand for our services, all of which could, over time, result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to increasing competition. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have financial, marketing, technical and other advantages. We also expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries. Large technology companies with substantial resources, technical expertise and greater brand power could also decide to enter or further expand in the markets where we operate and compete with us. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, or if a new entrant emerged with substantial resources, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We compete on the basis of various factors, including breadth and depth of services, reputation, reliability, quality, innovation, security, price and industry expertise and experience. In addition, our ability to compete successfully may be impacted by the growing availability of health information from social media, government health information systems and other free or low-cost sources. For example, the United Kingdoms National Health Service started releasing large volumes of data beginning in December 2011 at little or no charge, reducing the demand for our information services derived from similar data. In addition, consolidation or integration of wholesalers, retail pharmacies, health networks, payers or other healthcare stakeholders may lead any of them to provide information services directly to clients or indirectly through a designated service provider, resulting in increased competition from firms that may have lower costs to market (e.g., no data supply costs). Any of the above may result in lower demand for our services, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Tax matters could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We operate in more than 100 countries worldwide and our earnings are subject to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at differing rates. We seek to organize our affairs in a tax-efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could harm our financial results in future periods. In addition, we are subject to continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and tax liability. Litigation or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In the normal course of our business, we are involved in lawsuits, claims, audits and government investigations, such as those described in Legal Proceedings. In addition, we may become subject to future lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations that could result in substantial costs and divert our attention and resources. Litigation is inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from producing, publishing or selling services, engaging in business practices or requiring other remedies such as divestitures. Our business may be materially and adversely impacted by factors affecting the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. The vast majority of our revenue is generated from sales to the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. The clients we serve in these industries are commonly subject to financial pressures, including, but not limited to, increased costs, reduced demand for their 17 products, reductions in pricing and reimbursement for products and services, formulary approval and placement, government approval to market their products and limits on the manner by which they market their products, loss of patent exclusivity (w hether due to patent expiration or as a result of a successful legal challenge) and the proliferation of or changes to regulations applicable to these industries. To the extent our clients face such pressures, or they change how they utilize our offerings, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. Any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation or third-party opposition risks, as well as the uncertainty as to the scope of protection, registrability, patentability, validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights in each applicable country. Governments may adopt regulations, and government agencies or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. When we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our confidential and proprietary information. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our solutions, or injure our reputation and harm our operating results and financial condition. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could reduce the differentiation of our services and harm our business; the value of our investment in development or business acquisitions could be reduced; and third parties might make claims against us related to losses of their confidential or proprietary information. In addition, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. These incidents and claims could harm our business, reduce revenue, increase expenses and harm our reputation. We may be subject to claims by others that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert claims that we or our clients infringe their intellectual property rights and these claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. In some jurisdictions, plaintiffs can also seek injunctive relief that may limit the operation of our business or prevent the marketing and selling of our products or services that infringe on the plaintiffs intellectual property rights. To resolve these claims, we may enter into licensing agreements with restrictive terms or significant fees, stop selling, be required to implement costly redesigns to the affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy contractual obligations to others. If we do not resolve these claims in advance of a trial, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in court. These outcomes may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain contracts with our suppliers or clients contain provisions whereby we indemnify, subject to certain limitations, the counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to intellectual property infringement and the use of our data. Claims made under these provisions could be expensive to litigate and could result in significant payments. We rely on licenses from third parties to certain technology and intellectual property rights for some of our products and the licenses we currently have could terminate or expire. Some of our products or services rely on technology or intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Our licenses to this technology or these intellectual property rights could be terminated or could expire. We may be unable to replace these licenses in a timely manner. Failure to renew these licenses, or renewals of these licenses on less advantageous terms, could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to attract, retain and motivate talented personnel. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry and in the locations in which we operate is very competitive. If we are not successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful services may be adversely affected. Effective 18 succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledg e and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. We regularly seek to grow our business through acquisitions of or investments in new or complementary businesses, services or technologies, or through strategic alliances, and the failure to manage such acquisitions, investments or alliances could have a material adverse effect on us. In executing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities and enter into agreements for possible investments, acquisitions and other transactions such as strategic alliances, and we actively pursue these types of transactions in the regular course of business. Pursuing growth by way of these types of transactions involves significant challenges and risks, including the inability to successfully identify acquisition candidates on terms acceptable to us, advance our business strategy, realize a satisfactory return on investment, successfully integrate business activities or resources, or retain key personnel. If we are unable to manage acquisitions or investments, or integrate any acquired businesses, services or technologies effectively, we may not realize the expected benefits from the transaction relative to the consideration paid, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Further, we may be unsuccessful in identifying and evaluating business, legal or financial risks as part of the due diligence process associated with a particular transaction. In addition, some investments may result in the incurrence of debt or may have contingent consideration components that may require us to pay additional amounts in the future in relation to future performance results of the subject business. If we do enter into agreements with respect to these transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals. We may be unable to realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased revenue or enhanced efficiencies, within the timeframes that we expect or at all. These events could divert attention from our other businesses and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may experience challenges with the acquisition, development, enhancement or deployment of technology necessary for our business. We operate in businesses that require sophisticated computer systems and software for data collection, data processing, cloud-based platforms, analytics, cryptography, statistical projections and forecasting, mobile computing, social media analytics and other applications and technologies. We seek to address our technology risks by increasing our reliance on the use of innovations by cross-industry technology leaders and adapt these for our pharmaceutical and healthcare industry clients. Some of these technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and we must continue to adapt to these changes in a timely and effective manner at an acceptable cost. We also must continue to deliver data to our clients in forms that are easy to use while simultaneously providing clear answers to complex questions. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop, acquire or integrate new technologies, that these new technologies will meet our clients needs or achieve expected investment goals, or that we will be able to do so as quickly or cost-effectively as our competitors. Significant technological change could render our services obsolete. Moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies could render existing services obsolete. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to changing client and industry demands. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. New services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. Any of these failures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We generate revenues throughout the world which are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, and our revenues and net income may suffer due to currency translation. We have business activities in over 100 countries and we generate significant revenue from outside the United States. Our U.S. business earns revenues and incurs expenses primarily in U.S. dollars, while our Eurozone businesses earn revenues and incur expenses primarily in Euros. Outside the United States and the Eurozone, we also generate revenues and expenses predominantly in local currencies. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits and financial position and enterprise value of our operations, in addition to economic exposure, as a result of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Certain of the countries in which we operate, such as Venezuela, have currencies which are considered to be hyperinflationary. In February 2013, the Venezuelan government announced the devaluation of its currency and the official exchange rate was adjusted from 4.30 Bolvars to each U.S. Dollar to 6.30. As a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of approximately $14 million to Other income (loss), net in 2013 related to the remeasurement of the IMS AG Venezuelan Bolvar account balances and the remeasurement of certain local Venezuelan account balances. In 2014, Venezuela announced a dual-foreign exchange rate system, which effectively devalued the local currency. As a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $49 million to foreign 19 exchange loss within Other incom e (loss), net in 2014 and a $7 million pre-tax charge in 2015. See