ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "Qwest," "we," "us" and "our" refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, references to "QCII" refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. on an unconsolidated, stand-alone basis and references to "CenturyLink" refer to our direct parent company, CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this quarterly report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. The results of operations for the first three months of the year are not indicative of the results of operations that might be expected for the entire year. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), broadband, data, managed hosting, wireless and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to competitive local exchange carriers. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. We generate the majority of our revenues from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We refer to this region as our local service area. As discussed in Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLink, on April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. Each outstanding share of our common stock was converted into 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The aggregate consideration was approximately $12.273 billion, calculated in the manner described in Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLink. Since April 1, 2011, our results of operations have been included in the consolidated results of operations of CenturyLink. CenturyLink has accounted for its acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The aggregate consideration exceeded the aggregate estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by $10.123 billion, which we have recognized as goodwill. This goodwill is attributable to strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks that we expect CenturyLink and its consolidated subsidiaries, including us, to realize. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The recognition of assets and liabilities at fair value is reflected in our financial statements and therefore has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the "successor period" beginning on April 1, 2011. This new basis of accounting means that our financial statements for the successor periods will not be comparable to our previously reported financial statements, including the predecessor period financial statements in this report. 26 Table of Contents We have recognized $26 million of expenses associated with activities related to CenturyLink's acquisition of us during the successor three months ended March 31, 2012. These expenses were comprised primarily of severance, retention bonuses, share-based compensation and system integration consulting. During the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, we recognized an immaterial amount of expenses associated with our activities related to the acquisition. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries, including us, under which the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink. We report the balance of these transfers on our balance sheet as advances to affiliates. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, our operations have been integrated into and reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLink's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Consequently, we do not provide our discrete financial information to the CODM on a regular basis. As such, we now have one reportable segment and we have reclassified our prior period results to conform to our current view. We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services, which include primarily private line (including special access), broadband, Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS") (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting, video (including resold satellite video services), voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, integrated services digital network ("ISDN") (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), switched access and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration, which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our government and business customers; and Affiliates and other services, which consist primarily of universal service funds ("USF") revenues and surcharges and services we provide to our affiliates. We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates: computer system development and support services; and network support and technical services. During the second quarter of 2011, our dedicated internet access services were reclassified from our legacy services to strategic services and certain USF surcharges were reclassified from our legacy services to affiliates and other services revenues to better align with the classifications used by our parent, CenturyLink. As a result, we reclassified previously reported amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $63 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $30 million, an increase to affiliates and other services revenues of $32 million, and an increase of data integration revenue of $1 million. During the first quarter of 2012, we reclassified certain prior period revenues to conform to the current period presentation. As of the successor date of March 31, 2012, we served approximately 3.1 million broadband subscribers. We also operated approximately 8.4 million access lines, which are telephone lines reaching 27 Table of Contents from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network. During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines to conform to the methodology used by our parent, CenturyLink. We now count access lines when we install the service. Our new methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. Our new methodology for counting our access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 1 of this report. Business Trends Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Strategic services. We continue to see shifts in the makeup of our total revenues as customers move to strategic services, such as private line, broadband and video services, from legacy services, such as local and access services. Revenues from our strategic services represented 43% and 42% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 and the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, respectively, and this percentage continues to grow. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services, particularly among consumer and small business customers. We believe that continually increasing connection speeds is important to remaining competitive in our industry. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network made up of only copper wires. In addition to our FTTN deployment, we continue to expand our product offerings and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which most consumers already have broadband services. While traditional ATM based broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber based broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our broadband revenues. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our business, we ultimately believe the growth in fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain. Legacy services. Revenues from our legacy services represented 44% and 49% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 and for the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, respectively, and this percentage continues to decline. Our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are replacing traditional voice telecommunications service with substitute services, including (i) cable and wireless voice services and (ii) electronic mail, texting and social networking services. We expect that these factors will continue to impact our business. Service bundling and other product promotions, as described below, continue to be some of our responses to offset the loss of revenues as a result of access line losses. Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal government customers. 28 Table of Contents Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While our video and wireless services are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not significantly contribute to our strategic services revenues. However, we believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual products, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer from time to time limited time promotions on our broadband service, which we believe further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our services. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. Pension and post-retirement benefits expenses. We are required to recognize in our consolidated financial statements certain expenses relating to our pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans. These expenses are calculated based on several assumptions, including among other things discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are generally set at December 31 of each year. Changes in these assumptions can cause significant changes in the combined net periodic benefits expenses we recognize. We allocate the expenses of these plans to certain of our other affiliates. The allocation of expenses is based upon the demographics of employees and retirees at our affiliates. Changes in our assumptions can cause significant changes in the net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recognize. Disciplined capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband and the deployment of fiber to the tower, or FTTT. FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, additional events, uncertainties and trends discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations: Operating revenues $ 2,839 2,846 Operating expenses 2,549 2,267 Operating income 290 579 Other income (expense) (165 ) (222 ) Income tax expense 48 146 Net income $ 77 211 Employees (as of March 31) 26,200 28,100 29 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our operational metrics: Operational metrics: Broadband subscribers 3,134 3,012 122 4 % Access lines 8,413 8,919 (506 ) (6 )% During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines where we provide the services. We historically counted access lines at the point we billed them. However, now we count access lines when we install the service. This change in our methodology has resulted in an approximately 69,000 decrease in our successor June 30, 2011 access lines. We have not retrospectively adjusted our predecessor period access lines for this methodology adjustment as it was not reasonably practicable for us to do so. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our new methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. We have conformed prior periods to our current presentation, unless noted above. Operating Revenues Strategic services $ 1,222 1,200 22 2 % Legacy services 1,255 1,400 (143 ) (10 )% Data integration 116 123 (7 ) (6 )% Affiliates and other services 246 123 121 98 % Total operating revenues $ 2,839 2,846 (7 ) % Strategic Services Strategic services revenues increased primarily due to an increase in the volume of our MPLS and higher broadband revenues resulting from new subscribers as well as an improving mix of higher priced, higher speed broadband services. Our growth in our MPLS and broadband services were partially offset by decreased volumes in our private line services. Legacy Services Legacy services revenues decreased as a result of lower local and long-distance services revenues due to access line loss and reduced access services usage related to competitive pressures and product substitution. Legacy services revenues also decreased due to lower amortization of deferred revenue due to certain predecessor deferred revenue being assigned no value at the acquisition date, as well as lower revenues from our traditional WAN services, due to customer migration, product substitution and increased competition. 30 Table of Contents Data Integration Revenues from data integration decreased primarily due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Affiliates and Other Services Affiliates and other services revenues increased primarily due to telecommunication services we provided to affiliates since CenturyLink's acquisition of us. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,175 1,178 (3 ) % Selling, general and administrative 484 556 (72 ) (13 )% Operating expensesaffiliates 149 149 nm Depreciation and amortization 741 533 208 39 % Total operating expenses $ 2,549 2,267 282 12 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Effective January 1, 2012, we changed our rates of capitalized labor as we transitioned certain legacy systems to the historical systems of our parent, CenturyLink. This transition resulted in an estimated $15 million to $20 million increase in the amount of labor capitalized as an asset compared to the amount that would have been capitalized if we had labor related to the same projects with our legacy systems and a corresponding estimated $15 million to $20 million decrease in operating expenses for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012. This change is expected to result in an estimated operating expense reduction of approximately $60 million to $80 million for the successor year ending December 31, 2012. The reduction in expenses described above, net of tax, increased net income approximately $9 million to $12 million for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 and is expected to increase net income by approximately $36 million to $48 million for the successor year ending December 31, 2012. Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are expenses incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These expenses include: employee-related expenses directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages, benefits and professional fees); facilities expenses (which are third-party telecommunications expenses we incur for using other carriers' networks to provide services to our customers); rents and utilities expenses; equipment sales expenses (such as data integration and modem expenses); costs for USF (which reflect our contributions to certain federal and state funds that are established to promote the availability of telecommunications services to all consumers at reasonable and affordable rates, among other things); and other expenses directly related to our network and hosting operations. 31 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses are expenses incurred in selling products and services to our customers, corporate overhead and other operating expenses. These expenses include: employee-related expenses (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions, benefits and professional fees) directly attributable to selling products or services and employee-related expenses for administrative functions; marketing and advertising; taxes (such as property and other taxes) and fees; external commissions; bad debt expense; and other expenses. These expenses decreased primarily due to decreased pension expense, professional fees and marketing and advertising expense. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in severance related to employee reductions, a majority of which was due to CenturyLink's acquisition of us. Operating ExpensesAffiliates Since CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we have incurred affiliates expenses related to our use of telecommunication services, marketing and employee related support services provided by CenturyLink and its subsidiaries. Operating expensesaffiliates increased primarily due the adoption of the affiliate expense allocation methodology used by our parent, CenturyLink. This methodology includes a greater amount of costs in the overhead allocation pool, resulting in both higher affiliate revenues and expenses for us. This change in methodology resulted in an immaterial impact to our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2012. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense: Depreciation $ 378 475 (97 ) (20 )% Amortization 363 58 305 nm Total depreciation and amortization $ 741 533 208 39 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. In connection with us being acquired as of April 1, 2011, our property, plant and equipment was recognized at fair value, which reduced the recognized amounts of our net property, plant and equipment. This decrease in asset value resulted in $77 million lower depreciation expense for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011. Effective January 1, 2012, we also changed our estimates of the economic lives of certain telecommunications equipment. These changes resulted in an additional decrease to depreciation expense of approximately $23 million for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011. The accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us also resulted in additional amortizable intangible customer relationship assets, which increased amortization expense approximately $261 million for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011. In addition, our capitalized software was also recognized at fair value, which resulted in an increase of $59 million in amortization expense for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011. 32 Table of Contents Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes other income (expense) and income tax expense: Interest expense $ (174 ) (227 ) (53 ) (23 )% Other income 9 5 4 80 % Total other income (expense) $ (165 ) (222 ) (57 ) (26 )% Income tax expense $ 48 146 (98 ) (67 )% Interest Expense Interest expense decreased in the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to the amortization of the net premium associated with our long-term debt, which resulted from the accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us, and the early retirement of debt as described below. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 was $48 million or an effective tax rate of 38.4%. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We are a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. As such, factors relating to, or affecting, CenturyLink's liquidity and capital resources could have material impacts on us, including impacts on our credit ratings, our access to capital markets and changes in the financial market's perception of us. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries that include lines of credit, affiliate obligations, capital contributions and dividends. As part of these cash management arrangements, affiliates provide lines of credit to certain other affiliates. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit and intercompany obligations vary from time to time. Under these arrangements, the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink as advances to affiliates. From time to time we may declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink, using cash repaid to us under these advances, which has the net effect of reducing the amount of these advances. Given our upgrade to an investment grade rating on April 1, 2011, our debt covenants do not limit the amount of dividends we can pay to CenturyLink. Given our cash management arrangement with CenturyLink and the resulting amounts due to us from CenturyLink, a significant component of our liquidity is dependent upon CenturyLink's ability to repay its obligation to us. As of the successor date of March 31, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $1.043 billion, reflecting current liabilities of $3.142 billion and current assets of $2.099 billion, compared to a working capital deficit of $280 million as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. The change in our working capital position is primarily due to a $742 million reduction in the amounts owed to us by our affiliates during the first quarter of 2012, which was used for the payment of long-term debt as discussed in Note 4Long-Term Debt and below. The change in our working capital position is also due to a $371 million increase in current maturities of long-term debt during the first quarter of 2012. Our current maturities of long-term debt balances were unusually high as of the successor date of 33 Table of Contents March 31, 2012 primarily due to our anticipation of paying down portions of our long-term debt (discussed further below). Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Subject to market conditions, from time to time we expect to continue to issue debt securities through our Qwest Corporation ("QC") subsidiary to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned QC by the three major credit rating agencies, among other factors. On April 18, 2012, QC completed a cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $811 million of 8.375% Notes due 2016 and its $400 million of 7.625% Notes due 2015. With respect to its 8.375% Notes due 2016, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $575 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 71%, for $722 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.625% Notes due 2015, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $308 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 77%, for $369 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of this tender offer resulted in a loss of $46 million, which we will recognize in the second quarter of 2012. On April 2, 2012, QC issued $525 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $508 million. The notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after April 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the redemption date. On March 1, 2012, QCII redeemed $800 million of its 7.50% Notes due February 15, 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. On April 16, 2012, QCII committed to redeem on May 17, 2012 all $500 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the redemption date, which we expect will result in an immaterial gain. As of March 31, 2012, CenturyLink had available a four-year $1.7 billion revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in January 2015. On April 6, 2012, CenturyLink amended and restated this revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") to increase the aggregate principal amount available to $2.0 billion, including $400 million of letter of credit capacity, for the general corporate purposes of itself and its subsidiaries. CenturyLink's obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by our affiliate, Embarq Corporation, QCII and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Qwest Services Corporation. As of March 31, 2012 and April 6, 2012, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. CenturyLink also maintains a separate letter of credit arrangement with a financial institution to which we have access. As of the successor date of March 31, 2012, we believe we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants of our debt agreements. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash generated by operating activities and regulatory considerations. Our 2012 capital expenditures will be determined in part by the strategic initiatives of our parent, CenturyLink. 34 Table of Contents Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on primarily our broadband services. Throughout 2012, we anticipate that our fiber investment, which includes fiber to the tower, or FTTT, will be slightly lower to that spent in 2011. FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. Our plans are measured annually at December 31. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, the accounting unfunded status of pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations was $650 million and $2.7 billion, respectively. See Note 6Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust. Based on current laws and circumstances, (i) we will not be required to make a cash contribution to this plan in 2012 and (ii) we expect that required and voluntary contributions for 2013 will be approximately $200 million. The actual amount of required contributions to our plan in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on plan investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of the trust assets was $643 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately four years, based on current circumstances. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected four year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on changes in projected health care costs, returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimated annual long-term rate of return on the pension and post-retirement plans trust assets is 7.5% based on the currently held assets; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. Historical Information The following table summarizes our cash flow activities: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 477 777 (300 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 316 (408 ) 724 Net cash used in financing activities (792 ) (317 ) 475 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to the repayment to our parent for pension plan contributions they made on our behalf in December 2011. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash provided by investing activities increased in the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to a 35 Table of Contents $742 million reduction during the quarter in the amount of outstanding advances owed to us by CenturyLink. The increase in cash provided by investing activities was partially offset by an increase of cash used for capital expenditures of $16 million. Net cash used in financing activities increased in the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to $637 billion of additional payments of long-term debt compared to the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011. We did not pay any dividends in the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to $141 million in dividends paid in the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011. This reduction in dividends paid partially offset our increased payments of long-term debt. Certain Matters Related to CenturyLink's Acquisition of Us Effective after CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. CenturyLink is in the process of developing a post-acquisition intercompany agreement for allocation of consolidated income tax liabilities. We will continue to account for income tax expense on a stand-alone basis. We are also included in certain combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same accounting will apply. As the successor date of March 31, 2012, we had paid certain costs that were associated with the CenturyLink acquisition. These costs include compensation costs comprised of retention bonuses and severance. The final amounts and timing of the compensation costs to be paid is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that continue to be made as part of the continuing integration process. These amounts may be material. In accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we recognized our debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of our debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million, which is being recognized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining terms of the debt. Of this $693 million, $28 million was recognized during the successor three months ended March 31, 2012 and $8 million was extinguished in connection with the redemption transactions summarized above under "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements". Other Matters We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. See Note 9Commitment and Contingencies for the current status of such legal proceedings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements or (ii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" below. There were no substantial changes to our off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual obligations in the successor three months ended March 31, 2012, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. 36 Table of Contents Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of the successor date of March 31, 2012, we had no such instruments outstanding. There were no material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the successor three months ended March 31, 2012, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Other Information CenturyLink's and our website is www.centurylink.com . We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including those arising out of the FCC's October 27, 2011 order regarding intercarrier compensation and the USF, among other things); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by CenturyLink's recent acquisitions of Savvis, us and Embarq; CenturyLink's ability to successfully integrate the operations of Savvis, us and Embarq into its operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; CenturyLink's and our ability to use net operating loss carryovers in projected amounts; the effects of changes in CenturyLink's assignment of the Savvis purchase price to identifiable assets or liabilities after the date hereof; CenturyLink's ability to effectively manage its expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal proceedings involving CenturyLink and us; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in CenturyLink's or our pension funding requirements or otherwise; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this report (including in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic 37 Table of Contents conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason.