MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to Qwest, we, us or our refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, and references in this report to QCII refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. on an unconsolidated, stand-alone basis. Overview Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The results of operations for the first nine months of the year are not indicative of the results of operations that might be expected for the entire year. On April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. Each outstanding share of our common stock was converted into 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The estimated aggregate consideration was approximately $12.273 billion. Since April 1, 2011, our results of operations have been included in the consolidated results of operations of CenturyLink. CenturyLink has accounted for its acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations no later than the first quarter of 2012. Our final fair value determinations may be significantly different than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2011. Based on our preliminary estimate, the aggregate consideration exceeds the aggregate estimated fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of us by $10.135 billion, which amount has been recognized as goodwill. This goodwill is attributable to strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks that we expect CenturyLink and its consolidated subsidiaries, including us, to realize. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The recognition of assets and liabilities at fair value is reflected in our financial statements and therefore has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the successor period beginning on April 1, 2011. This new basis of accounting means that our financial statements for the successor periods will not be comparable to our previously reported financial statements, including the predecessor period financial statements in this report. We are required to review goodwill recorded in business combinations for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or a change in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Our annual measurement date for testing goodwill impairment is September 30. We are required to write-down the value of goodwill only in periods in which the recorded amount of goodwill exceeds the fair value. The impairment testing is done at the reporting unit level; in reviewing the criteria for reporting units when allocating the goodwill resulting from our acquisition by CenturyLink, it was determined that we are one reportable unit. We early adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment , during the third quarter, which permits us to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting units fair value is less than its carrying amount before applying the two step goodwill impairment test. If, after completing our qualitative assessment we determine that it is more likely than not that the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, we compare the fair value to our carrying value (including goodwill). If the estimated fair value is greater than the carrying value, we conclude that no impairment exists. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, a second calculation is required in which the implied fair value of goodwill is compared to its carrying value. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying value, 32 goodwill must be written down to its implied fair value. We elected to early adopt the provisions of ASU 2011-8 and perform a qualitative assessment given the six month proximity of the goodwill impairment date and the acquisition date resulting in the creation of the goodwill. We have accounted for the CenturyLinks acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the aggregate consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The fair value of the aggregate consideration transferred exceeded the acquisition date fair value of the recorded tangible and intangible assets, and assumed liabilities by an estimated $10.135 billion, which has been recognized as goodwill. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. As such, we have not completed our valuation analysis and calculations in sufficient detail necessary to arrive at the final estimates of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, along with the related allocations to goodwill and intangible assets. The amounts recorded related to the acquisition are preliminary and subject to revision pending the final fair market valuation analysis. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations no later than the first quarter of 2012. Our final fair value determinations may be significantly different than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2011. As a result of the acquisition and related acquisition accounting, the carrying value of our assets and liabilities equaled our fair value as of April 1, 2011. A decrease in our fair value in excess of a reduction in our carrying value will result in us having a carrying value in excess of our fair value, which may result in an impairment of our goodwill. There is significant judgment in estimating the fair value of the company. The factors that most significantly impact our estimate of fair value include forecasted cash flows and a risk adjusted discount rate. The applicable risk adjusted discount rate is impacted by the market risk free rate of return and our risk rating. The qualitative analysis included assessing the impact of changes in certain factors from April 1, 2011 (the acquisition date on which all assets and liabilities were assigned a fair value) to September 30, 2011 (the goodwill impairment testing date), including (i) changes in forecasted operating results and comparing actual results to those utilized in the April 1, 2011 fair value assignment; (ii) changes in our weighted average cost of capital from April 1, 2011 to September 30, 2011; (iii) changes in the industry or our competitive environment since the acquisition date; (iv) changes in the overall economy, our market share, and interest rates since the acquisition date; (v) trends in the stock price of CenturyLink and related market capitalization and enterprise values; (vi) trends in peer companies total enterprise value metrics; (vii) control premiums paid for recent industry transactions; and (viii) additional factors such as a management turnover, changes in regulation, and changes in litigation matters. Based on our qualitative assessment, we concluded that it was more likely than not that the estimated fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as of September 30, 2011 and thus, determined it was not necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. We believe the more impactful assessments include our actual results compared to those forecasted as of April 1, 2011 and the decline in our weighted average cost of capital since April 1, 2011. To date, our actual operating results have been comparable to those forecasted as of April 1, 2011 and, as of September 30, 2011, we believe the forecasted results of future periods are not materially different than those used as of April 1, 2011. Our weighted average cost of capital declined 100 basis points from the April 1, 2011 valuation to the September 30, 2011 testing date, which would serve to increase the estimated fair value of the reporting unit when utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology. Based on our review of all other qualitative factors, we concluded there were no other significant economic, industry, operational or performance-related changes from April 1, 2011 to September 30, 2011 that would adversely impact our qualitative assessment. 33 Should our future operating results not meet forecasted expectations or should our weighted average cost of capital increase significantly in the future, we may be required to assess our goodwill for impairment prior to the next required testing date of September 30, 2012. In addition, we cannot assure that other adverse conditions will not trigger future goodwill impairment testing or an impairment charge. A number of factors, many of which we have no ability to control, could affect our financial condition, operating results and business prospects. These factors include, but are not limited to (i) further weakening in the overall economy; (ii) a significant decline in CenturyLinks stock price and resulting market capitalization; (iii) successful efforts by competitors to gain market share in our markets; (iv) adverse changes as a result of regulatory actions; and (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the overall business climate. We have recognized $19 million and $149 million of certain expenses associated with our activities related to the CenturyLink acquisition for the successor three months and combined nine months ended September 30, 2011, respectively. These expenses were comprised of primarily severance, retention bonuses, share-based compensation and system integration consulting. During the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, we had recognized $3 million of expenses associated with our activities surrounding the acquisition. As of April 1, 2011, as part of acquisition accounting, we also included in our goodwill $35 million for financial advisory fees, $23 million for certain performance awards and $16 million related to retention bonuses, which were contingent on the completion of the acquisition and had no benefit to CenturyLink after the acquisition. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries, including us, under which the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink as a short-term affiliate loan. The discussion in this MD&A is presented on a combined basis for the predecessor and successor periods in 2011. We believe that the discussion on a combined basis is more meaningful as it allows the results of operations to be analyzed to a comparable period in 2010. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services, including local and long distance, network access, broadband, managed hosting and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide fiber transport and services to competitive local exchange carriers and other communications, professional and business information services. We generate the majority of our revenues from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We operate approximately 8.7 million access lines, which are telephone lines reaching from the customers premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network. We also serve approximately 3.0 million broadband subscribers as of September 30, 2011. During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines where we provide the services in order to conform to the methodology used by CenturyLink. We now count access lines when we install the service. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our new methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. Our methodology for counting our access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. For certain products and services we provide, and for a variety of internal communications functions, we use parts of CenturyLinks telecommunications network to transport voice and data traffic. During the second quarter of 2011, our dedicated internet access services were reclassified from our legacy services to strategic services and certain USF surcharges were reclassified from our legacy services to affiliates and other services revenues to better align with the classifications that our parent, CenturyLink, uses. As a result, we reclassified previously reported amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $65 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $30 million and an increase to affiliates and other services revenues of $34 million. For the predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010 this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $72 million, an increase of strategic service 34 revenues of $37 million and an increase of affiliates and other services revenues of $34 million. For the predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010 this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $216 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $114 million and an increase of affiliates and other services revenues of $100 million. We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily private line (including special access), broadband, multi protocol line switching, (MPLS) (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting, video (including DIRECTV), voice over Internet Protocol, (VoIP), and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, voice, integrated services digital network, (ISDN), switched access and traditional wide area network, (WAN), services; Data integration , which is telecommunications equipment we sell that is located on customers premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our government and business customers; and Affiliates and other services , which consist primarily of USF surcharges and services we provide to our affiliates. We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates: computer system development and support services; network support and technical services. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of the CenturyLinks acquisition of us, our operations are integrated into and are reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLinks chief operating decision maker, (CODM), has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the SEC. Consequently, we do not provide our discrete financial information to the CODM on a regular basis. Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Strategic services. We continue to see shifts in the makeup of our total revenues as customers move to strategic services, such as private line, broadband and video services, from legacy services, such as local and access services. Revenues from our strategic services represented 44% and 40% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011 and the predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010, respectively, and 43% and 39% of our total revenues for the combined nine months ended September 30, 2011 and the predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively, and this percentage continues to grow. With respect to broadband services, we continue to focus on increasing subscribers, particularly among consumer and small business customers. We reached approximately 3.0 million broadband subscribers at September 30, 2011 compared to approximately 2.9 million at September 30, 2010. We believe that continually increasing connection speeds is important to remaining competitive in our industry. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which we launched to meet customer demand for higher broadband speeds. FTTN is a type of telecommunications network that combines fiber-optic cables (which run from a telecommunication providers central office to a single location within a particular neighborhood or geographic area) and traditional copper wires (which run from this location to individual residences and businesses within the neighborhood or geographic area). FTTN allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network made up 35 of only copper wires. In addition to our FTTN deployment, we continue to expand our product offerings and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers already have broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and grow our broadband subscribers. Demand for the private line services we offer to business and wholesale customers continues to increase, despite our customers optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our business, we ultimately believe the growth in fiber-based special access provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain. Legacy services. Revenues from our legacy services represented 46% and 50% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011 and the predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010, respectively, and 48% and 51% of our total revenues for the combined nine months ended September 30, 2011 and the predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively, and continue to decline. Our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to impact our business. Service bundling and other product promotions, as described below, continue to be some of our responses to offset the loss of revenues as a result of access line losses. Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this revenue stream tends to be more sensitive than revenues from our other services to changes in the economy and to changes in spending trends of our federal government customers. We currently expect revenue and expenses for the remainder of 2011 to be lower than they were during the comparable period of 2010. Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While our video and wireless services are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not make a large contribution to strategic services revenues. However, we believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual products, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer limited time promotions on our broadband service for qualifying customers who have our broadband product in their bundle further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our services. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. Pension and post-retirement benefits expenses. We are required to recognize in our consolidated financial statements certain expenses relating to our pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans. These expenses are calculated based on several assumptions, including among other things discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are generally set at December 31 of each year. Changes in these assumptions can cause significant changes in the combined net periodic benefits expenses we recognize. We allocate the expenses of these plans to certain of our other affiliates. The allocation of expenses is based upon the demographics of employees and retirees at our affiliates. Changes in our assumptions can cause significant changes in the net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recognize. 36 Disciplined capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband and fiber to the tower, or FTTT. FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a telecommunication providers broadband interconnection points to cellular tower. FTTT allows for the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network. While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, additional events, uncertainties and trends discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. 37 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 Compared to Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010, combined nine months ended September 30, 2011 and predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010 and the number of employees as of September 30, 2011, successor and September 30, 2010, predecessor: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended September 30, 2011 Three months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Nine months ended September 30, 2011 Nine months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Operating revenues by category: Strategic and legacy services: Strategic services $ 1,205 1,172 33 3 % 3,611 3,459 152 4 % Legacy services 1,284 1,479 (195 ) (13 )% 3,997 4,536 (539 ) (12 )% Total strategic and legacy services 2,489 2,651 (162 ) (6 )% 7,608 7,995 (387 ) (5 )% Data integration 134 158 (24 ) (15 )% 375 436 (61 ) (14 )% Affiliate revenues 21 21 nm 27 27 nm Other revenues (primarily USF surcharges) 121 126 (5 ) (4 )% 370 400 (30 ) (8 )% Total operating revenues 2,765 2,935 (170 ) (6 )% 8,380 8,831 (451 ) (5 )% Operating expenses 2,542 2,438 104 4 % 7,440 7,257 183 3 % Operating income 223 497 (274 ) (55 )% 940 1,574 (634 ) (40 )% Other expense 158 479 (321 ) (67 )% 531 1,043 (512 ) (49 )% Income before income taxes 65 18 47 nm 409 531 (122 ) (23 )% Income tax expense 33 108 (75 ) (69 )% 179 425 (246 ) (58 )% Net income (loss) $ 32 (90 ) 122 136 % 230 106 124 117 % Employees (as of September 30) 27,266 28,535 (1,269 ) (4 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines where we provide the services. We now count access lines when we install the service, which resulted in an approximately 69,000 decrease in our successor June 30, 2011 access lines versus what we would have shown under our historical methodology of counting access lines when revenue was generated from them. We have not retrospectively adjusted our predecessor period access lines for this methodology adjustment as it was not reasonably practicable for us to do so. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our new methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. We have conformed prior periods to our current presentation, unless noted above. The following table summarizes our total broadband subscribers and access lines as of September 30, 2011, successor and September 30, 2010, predecessor: Successor Predecessor September 30, 2011 September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Total broadband subscribers 3,039 2,933 106 4 % Total access lines 8,658 9,392 (734 ) (8 )% 38 Operating Revenues Strategic Services Strategic services revenues increased primarily due to higher broadband revenues resulting from new subscribers as well as an increase in MPLS. An improving mix of higher priced, higher speed broadband services and increased volumes in our private line services also contributed to the increase in strategic revenues. Legacy Services Legacy services revenues decreased as a result of lower local services revenues due to access line loss and reduced access services usage related to competitive pressures, along with product substitution. Legacy services revenues also decreased due to lower amortization of deferred revenue due to certain predecessor deferred revenue being assigned no value at the acquisition date, as well as lower revenues from our traditional WAN services, due to customer migration, product substitution and increased competition. Data Integration Revenues from data integration decreased for primarily due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Affiliate Revenues Affiliates revenues for 2011, are primarily attributable to telecommunication services provided to CenturyLink and its affiliates since April 1, 2011, when we became a whole owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. Other Revenues Other revenues decreased primarily due to decreased USF surcharges as a result of access line losses. Operating Expenses The following table provides further detail regarding our total operating expenses for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010, combined nine months ended September 30, 2011 and predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended September 30, 2011 Three months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Nine months ended September 30, 2011 Nine months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,185 1,286 (101 ) (8 )% 3,504 3,773 (269 ) (7 )% Selling, general and administrative 525 600 (75 ) (13 )% 1,737 1,839 (102 ) (6 )% Operating expensesaffiliates 36 36 nm 68 68 nm Depreciation and amortization 796 552 244 44 % 2,131 1,645 486 30 % Total operating expenses $ 2,542 2,438 104 4 % 7,440 7,257 183 3 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. 39 Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products decreased due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Lower facilities expenses as a result of both lower rates and lower volumes for long-distance service and cost optimization also contributed to the lower expenses in cost of services and products. Cost of services and products also decreased due to lower salaries and wages related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. The amortization of certain deferred expenses is lower due to assigning no value to these predecessor assets at the acquisition date. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to decreased professional fees, pension expense and marketing and advertising expense. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in severance related to employee reductions, a majority of which was due to CenturyLinks acquisition of us. Affiliate Expenses Affiliates expenses include charges for our use of telecommunication services, marketing and employee related support services. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010, combined nine months ended September 30, 2011 and predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended September 30, 2011 Three months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Nine months ended September 30, 2011 Nine months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Depreciation $ 401 496 (95 ) (19 )% 1,279 1,480 (201 ) (14 )% Amortization 395 56 339 nm 852 165 687 nm Total depreciation and amortization $ 796 552 244 44 % 2,131 1,645 486 30 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. In the second quarter of 2011, our property, plant and equipment was revalued and as a result decreased $2.140 billion due to CenturyLinks acquisition of us. The decrease in asset value resulted in our depreciation expense declining significantly. This revaluation also resulted in an additional $7.625 billion in amortizable intangible customer relationship assets, which resulted in an additional $257 million of amortization expense for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011. In addition, capitalized software was revalued to $1.702 billion, an increase of $815 million, resulting in amortization expense of $119 million for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the $56 million for the predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010. We expect depreciation and amortization expense in the remaining periods of 2011 and future years to be impacted by this revaluation, which remains subject to further adjustment. 40 Other Consolidated Results The following table provides detail regarding other income (expense) and income tax expense for the successor three months ended September 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended September 30, 2010, combined nine months ended September 30, 2011 and predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended September 30, 2011 Three months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Nine months ended September 30, 2011 Nine months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (158 ) (255 ) (97 ) (38 )% (535 ) (799 ) (264 ) (33 )% Loss on embedded option in convertible debt (229 ) (229 ) nm (208 ) (208 ) nm Loss on early retirement of debt (3 ) (3 ) nm (1 ) (45 ) (44 ) (98 )% Other income 8 (8 ) nm 5 9 (4 ) (44 )% Total other income (expense) $ (158 ) (479 ) (321 ) (67 )% (531 ) (1,043 ) (512 ) (49 )% Income tax expense $ 33 108 (75 ) (69 )% 179 425 (246 ) (58 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Other Income (Expense) Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of the net premium associated with our long-term debt which resulted from the revaluation of this debt caused by CenturyLinks acquisition of us. Interest expense also decreased due to early retirement of debt and debt maturities. In connection with repurchasing convertible debt through a tender offer in the third quarter of 2010, we incurred a non-cash loss on an option embedded in such debt, which resulted from an increase in our stock price and a reduction in the exercise price due to adjustments for dividends paid, partially offset by lower stock price volatility and a shorter remaining option term. In the first quarter of 2010, we redeemed $525 million aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes due 2011, resulting in an immaterial loss, and completed cash tender offers for the purchase of certain of our outstanding debt securities. We received and accepted tenders of approximately $1.107 billion aggregate principal amount of notes for $1.169 billion, resulting in an aggregate loss of $43 million. Income Tax Expense Included in income tax expense for the first quarter of 2010 was a $113 million expense related to the change in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D subsidy as a result of the comprehensive health care reform legislation enacted in March 2010. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview On April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. As such, factors relating to, or affecting, CenturyLinks liquidity and capital resources could have material impacts on us, including impacts on our credit ratings, our access to capital markets and changes in the financial markets perception of us. 41 CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries that include lines of credit, affiliate obligations, capital contributions and dividends. As part of these cash management arrangements, affiliates provide lines of credit to certain other affiliates. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit and intercompany obligations vary from time to time and are classified as short-term debt. Under these arrangements, the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink as a short-term affiliate loan. From time to time we may declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink, which would reduce the amount of this loan. Given our upgrade to an investment grade rating on April 1, 2011, our debt covenants do not limit the amount of dividends we can pay to CenturyLink. Given our cash management arrangement with CenturyLink and the resulting amounts due to us from CenturyLink, a significant component of our liquidity is dependent upon CenturyLinks ability to repay its obligation to us. At September 30, 2011, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $420 million compared to $2.722 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our working capital deficit decreased $2.302 billion primarily due to net income before depreciation, amortization and income taxes as well as net proceeds from our long term debt issuances and reclassification of current maturities of long-term debt to long-term debt associated with our subsequent refinancing activities completed in October 2011 partially offset by capital expenditures and dividends declared to CenturyLink. We anticipate that any future liquidity needs not met through our cash provided by operating activities and amounts due to us from CenturyLink could be met through capital contributions or loans from CenturyLink. Until April 1, 2011, we had a revolving credit facility, which made available to us $1.035 billion of additional credit subject to certain restrictions. That credit facility was terminated in conjunction with the CenturyLink acquisition. In January 2011, CenturyLink entered into a new four-year revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) that allows CenturyLink to borrow up to $1.700 billion including $400 million of letter of credit capacity, for the general corporate purposes of itself and its subsidiaries. QCII and another one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, Qwest Services Corporation (QSC), are guarantors of the Credit Facility. CenturyLink also maintains a separate letter of credit arrangement with a financial institutions to which we have access. As of September 30, 2011 CenturyLink had approximately $1.700 billion and $31 million available for future use under the Credit Facility and the separate letter of credit arrangement, respectively. The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flows for the combined nine months ended September 30, 2011 and predecessor nine months ended September 30, 2010: Combined Predecessor Nine months ended September 30, 2011 Nine months ended September 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,321 2,564 (243 ) Net cash used in investing activities (2,298 ) (1,090 ) 1,208 Net cash used in financing activities (325 ) (1,913 ) (1,588 ) Net cash provided by operating activities decreased during the period as a result of a decline in cash received from customers due to decreased revenues. For additional information about our operating results, see Results of Operations above. Net cash used in investing activities increased primarily due to a $1.145 billion increase in short-term affiliate loans resulting from the majority of our cash balance being transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink. Net cash used in financing activities decreased primarily due to approximately $1.157 billion less payments of debt for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010. Net cash used in financing activities also decreased due to $425 million more in net proceeds from the issuance of debt for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the same period ended September 30, 2010. For additional information regarding our financing activities, see Note 4Long-term Debt to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. 42 Debt and Other Financing Arrangements On September 21, 2011, QC issued 7.50% Notes due 2051 in the aggregate principal amount of $575 million in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $557 million. On October 4, 2011, QC issued $950 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.75% Notes due 2021 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $927 million. In October 2011, QC used the net proceeds from these offerings and available cash, to redeem the $1.500 billion aggregate principal amount of its 8.875% Notes due 2012 and to pay all related fees and expenses, which resulted in an immaterial loss. On June 8, 2011, QC issued $661 million aggregate principal amount 7.375% Notes due 2051 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $643 million. QC used the net proceeds, together with available cash, to redeem $825 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.875% Notes due 2011, and to pay related fees and expenses. Aggregate maturities of our long-term debt (excluding unamortized premiums, discounts and other, net) as of September 30, 2011 were as follows: (Dollars in millions) Remainder of 2011 (classified as current)* $ 601 Year ending December 31, 2012 100 2013 833 2014 1,969 2015 990 Thereafter 7,855 * includes $573 million aggregate principal amount of our 8.875% Senior Notes due 2012, which were redeemed in October 2011. We were in compliance with all provisions and covenants of our debt agreements as of September 30, 2011. See Note 4Long-term Debt to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information about our long-term debt. Subject to market conditions, from time to time we expect to continue to issue debt securities through our QC subsidiary to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned QC by the three major credit rating agencies, among other factors. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash generated by operating activities and regulatory considerations. We estimate our total 2011 capital expenditures will be determined in part by the strategic initiatives of our parent, CenturyLink. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband and fiber to the tower, or FTTT. FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a telecommunication providers broadband interconnection points to cellular towers. FTTT allows for the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network. 43 Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. When we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink on April 1, 2011, we remeasured these plans. We recognized liabilities for the accounting unfunded status of pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations of $490 million and $2.522 billion, respectively. See Note 5Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust. Cash funding requirements can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, discount rates, changes in plan benefits and funding laws and regulations. As a result, it is difficult to determine future funding requirements with a high level of precision; however, based on current laws and circumstances, we believe we are required to make contributions totaling approximately $320 million to our pension plans in 2012. Due to the significant declines in investment values during the third quarter of 2011, we currently expect that plan contributions in 2013 and beyond will be similar to the 2012 total expected contribution amounts. However, the actual amount of required contributions to the our plan in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in the benefit plans and funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of April 1, 2011, the fair value of the trust assets was $762 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected five year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Other Matters Effective after CenturyLinks acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. CenturyLink is in the process of developing a post-acquisition intercompany agreement for allocation of consolidated income tax liabilities. We will continue to account for income tax expense on a stand-alone basis. We are also included in certain combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same accounting will apply. In recent years we made some payments for income taxes; however, in most jurisdictions where we were subject to income tax, those taxes were largely offset through the utilization of our significant net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs. As of September 30, 2011, we had federal NOLs of approximately $5.9 billion. The CenturyLink acquisition caused an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, our ability to use these NOLs is subject to annual limits imposed by Section 382. Despite this, we expect to use substantially all of these NOLs as an offset against future taxable income of the CenturyLink consolidated group, although the timing of that use will depend upon the consolidated groups future earnings and future tax circumstances. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to use the NOLs in accordance with our expectations. As of September 30, 2011, we had paid certain costs that were associated with the CenturyLink acquisition. These costs include financial advisory fees and compensation costs comprised of retention bonuses and severance. The final amounts and timing of the compensation costs to be paid is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that continue to be made as part of the continuing integration. These amounts may be material. We are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material effect on our financial position. See Note 10Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for the current status of these legal proceedings. 44 We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support, and we do not engage in hedging, research and development services, or other relationships that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not reflected on the face of our consolidated balance sheets. There were no substantial changes to our off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual commitments in the combined nine months ended September 30, 2011, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Market Risk We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in interest rates. The objective of our interest rate risk management program is to manage the level and volatility of our interest expense. From time to time we have used derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk exposure on our debt and we may employ them in the future. There were no material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Other Information CenturyLinks and our website is www.centurylink.com . We routinely post important investor information in the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this report. You may obtain free electronic copies of the reports that CenturyLink, QCII and QC make with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Investor Relations section of our website under the heading SEC Filings. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including those arising out of the FCCs proposed rules regarding intercarrier compensation and the USF, among other things); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by CenturyLinks recent acquisitions of Savvis, us and Embarq; CenturyLinks ability to successfully integrate the operations of Savvis, Qwest and Embarq into its operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; CenturyLinks and our ability to use NOLs in projected amounts; the effects of changes in CenturyLinks assignment of the Qwest or Savvis purchase price to identifiable assets or liabilities after the date hereof; CenturyLinks ability to effectively manage its expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal proceedings involving CenturyLink and us; CenturyLinks ability to pay a $2.90 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by changes in its and our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this report (including in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest 45 rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason. 46 Item 3. Qwest Communications International Inc.