Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the Company as of March 31, 2012 and for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included herein, as well as the Companys financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 filed with its Annual Report on Form 10-K on March 23, 2012. Forward Looking Statements Some of the information in this section contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate and continue, or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: discuss our future expectations; contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition; and state other forward-looking information. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict or over which we have no control. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors, Business and elsewhere in this Report. Company Overview As discussed throughout this Report, Q Holdings, Inc. (hereinafter Q Holdings or the Company) conducts its business and operations through its wholly owned subsidiary, Q Therapeutics, Inc. (hereinafter Q Therapeutics or Q). Q Therapeutics is a Salt Lake City, Utah-based biopharmaceutical company that is developing human cell-based therapies intended to treat degenerative diseases of the brain and spinal cord, the primary components of the central nervous system (CNS). Q Therapeutics was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 2002. The technology upon which these therapies are based was developed by Qs co-founder Mahendra Rao, M.D., Ph.D., a global leader in glial stem cell biology, during Dr. Raos tenure as a Professor at the University of Utah and as Head of the Stem Cell Section at the National Institutes of Health. Q is managed by an experienced team of biotechnology executives with demonstrated start-up success and advised by leaders in the neurology and stem cell therapeutics fields. Every year, hundreds of thousands of people suffer with debilitating neurodegenerative diseases such as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS or Lou Gehrigs Disease), Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Transverse Myelitis (TM) and Spinal Cord Injury (SCI). Traditional drugs tend to fail to treat the nerve damage caused by these diseases due to the multifactorial nature of these diseases and the inability of most drugs to address all of these factors. Q Therapeutics is developing a new and nontraditional approach targeted to improve the health of people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases: a human cell based product called Q-Cells. Q-Cells are healthy human glial cells. The role of glial cells in the brain and spine is to support and protect neurons, the signal transmission lines of the nervous system. Glial cells perform many functions including forming an insulating myelin sheath around neurons, providing the necessary growth factors needed to maintain a healthy nervous system, and removing compounds that are toxic to neurons. Many neurodegenerative diseases arise when glial cells are damaged or destroyed, causing neurons to malfunction and eventually die. Q-Cells technology aims to treat neurodegenerative diseases by supplementing the damaged or missing glia in the CNS with new, healthy cells that can help maintain and/or restore neuron function to a more robust state. The diseases targeted by Q Therapeutics products are not well treated with current drug therapies. At best, patients suffering from these diseases can, in some cases, only hope to slow their inexorable progression and the associated disabilities. A handful of companies are exploring the possibility of harnessing the power of stem cells to treat these conditions, though no clear leader has emerged. In addition to utilizing its proprietary cellular products as therapeutic products, Q may evaluate novel ways to utilize these cells to screen for new drugs (such as small molecule compounds) that could also provide treatments for neurological diseases. Q Therapeutics believes that a worldwide market measured in the tens of billions of dollars exists for those companies whose cell-based treatments become commercial products. Q Therapeutics patent protected technology represents an opportunity to build on the recent advancements in the stem cell field and bring to market a therapeutic approach that will change the way medicine is practiced in treating many disabling and fatal conditions of the CNS. 18 Q Holdings is raising capital to enable Q Therapeutics to complete preparations necessary to move into and initiate human clinical trials, initially treating patients that suffer from the always-fatal ALS. Future trials are anticipated in other neurodegenerative diseases, such as MS and SCI. Qs Semi-Virtual Business Model Q Therapeutics uses a semi-virtual business model to develop its products. Q believes this type of business model to be capital efficient while allowing it to augment its own expertise and capabilities with those of its development partners at the time that outside resources are needed. Qs semi-virtual business model includes utilizing third parties for certain functions and outsourced services. For example, Q utilizes outside collaborators and contractors to: Leverage its research and development resources by forming collaborations with outside scientists specialized in our areas of interest; Contract Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) manufacturing to facilities specialized in such production; Utilize experienced regulatory consultants to work with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA); Contract safety/toxicology studies to qualified GLP labs; Conduct the clinical trials with physicians and institutions with relevant experience; Enter into pharmaceutical company collaborations to maximize product sales. Cell-Based Therapeutic Approach to Treatment of Degenerative Conditions of the Central Nervous System Q Therapeutics was founded in 2002 to further the development and commercialization of the pioneering work of Mahendra Rao, M.D., Ph.D., conducted at the University of Utah and National Institutes of Health (NIH). Dr. Rao, a global leader in the development of stem cells as therapeutics, was one of the first to identify and seek patent coverage on stem cells and their progeny cells found in the CNS. After licensing Dr. Raos technology from the University of Utah / NIH and raising capital, Q commenced operations in the spring of 2004 to develop cell-based therapeutic products that can be sold as off-the-shelf pharmaceuticals. That work continues to advance Dr. Raos initial findings toward a commercial product. Objectives of Q Therapeutics Q Therapeutics aims to change the way medicine is practiced in the treatment of many debilitating and often fatal diseases of the brain and spinal cord. Q intends to bring its initial product, Q-Cells to the market to treat ALS, and eventually other indications, potentially including MS, SCI, Parkinsons disease and Alzheimers disease. Initially, Q is targeting orphan diseases, where the FDA allows applying for fast track approvals and market exclusivity, and for which smaller, less expensive clinical trials may be warranted. This approach can result in accelerated commercialization efforts while maintaining a financing approach focused on capital efficiency. Qs Approach to the Problem Q Therapeutics believes it has taken a novel path to developing treatments for debilitating and sometimes fatal diseases of the CNS for which there are currently no long-term effective treatments. Traditional drugs have seen little success as long-term treatments for many neurodegenerative diseases, primarily due to the complex nature of those diseases and the difficulty of replacing damaged nerve cells, or neurons. The majority of cells in the brain and spinal cord are glial cells that serve to support the health of the neurons. Without healthy and properly functioning glial cells, neurons cannot function properly and will eventually die. In many neurodegenerative diseases, damage to glial cells causes or accelerates loss of function and death of neurons. Qs approach takes advantage of the normal support and repair mechanisms present in the healthy nervous system whereby supplementation of damaged glial cells with healthy glial cells in patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases is intended to enable the return to healthy neuron function and/or prevent additional degeneration, thereby ameliorating the negative effects of the disease. 2010 Summary In 2010, Q Therapeutics continued its work on development of Q-Cells including with its collaborators, with the focus on development for ALS as the initial clinical indication in collaboration with Dr. Nicholas Maragakis laboratory at Johns Hopkins University. Q furthered manufacturing activities of Q-Cells with increased production yields, resulting in filing of new patent applications. Q was awarded a grant from the federal government through the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act for its ALS product development activities in 2009. 19 Q continued its work on defining and characterizing Q-Cells and its ability to myelinate in animal models, including publication in peer reviewed journals (Sandrock et al, Regen Med 5 , 381-394; 2010). Q also carried out research activities under an SBIR grant for development of an astrocyte cell product. Q continued to prosecute and maintain its IP portfolio, resulting in issuance of one new patent in 2010: U.S. Patent 7,795,021 issued September 14, 2010 and has claims drawn to an isolated population of mammalian CNS glial restricted precursor cells which generate oligodendrocytes and at least two distinct populations of astrocytes, but not neurons, said population of mammalian CNS glial restricted precursor cells being isolated from a mixture of cells by positive immunoselection with an A2B5 antibody. Q employed a semi-virtual business model as described in the Company Overview, continuing to utilize outside collaborators and contractors to augment product development activities without needing to build up internal infrastructure for many of these activities, such as manufacturing and GLP animal safety studies. Some of these activities were partially paid for by grant funding, reducing Qs need for outside financing. 2011 Summary In 2011, Q Therapeutics focused on developing Q-Cells for ALS and continued studies on safety and efficacy in animal models (collaboration with Dr. Maragakis laboratory, Lepore et al, PLoS One 6(10): e25968). This work documented the safety, survival and differentiation of Q-Cells in the SOD1 mouse. In preparation for IND-enabling animal GLP safety studies, Q worked closely with its clinical collaborators on defining the clinical protocol and with regulatory consultants and the FDA on the design of preclinical studies to support the anticipated Phase I study after IND filing. Q also continued to work with its contractors on improvements on the manufacturing process in anticipation of GMP manufacturing for clinical trials, and continued work internally to further characterize its Q-Cells. Q submitted information to the FDA in preparation for a January 2012, pre-IND meeting for use of Q-Cells to treat ALS. To further define potential applications of Q-Cells, Q furthered work with collaborators on use of Q-Cells in animal models of Spinal Cord Injury, both for inflammatory injury as well as mechanical injury. Recently published studies with Dr. Itzhak Fischers laboratory at Drexel University in an athymic rat model of thoracic contusion SCI document safety and statistically significant, reproducible, disease modifying activity of Q-Cells transplanted into the injury site (Jin et al., J Neurotrauma 28(4), 579-94 ; 2011). Walczak et al (Glia 59, 499-510; 2011), in collaboration with Q, demonstrated safety and benefits of Q-Cells in a model of focal inflammatory SCI. Q continued to prosecute and maintain its IP portfolio. In 2011, Q Therapeutics established a subsidiary, NeuroQ Research, Inc, with offices in Utah and California, which is intended in the future to carry out activities utilizing Q Therapeutics intellectual property to develop products for the research market. Q entered into a development and non-exclusive license agreement with xCell Science LLC, to develop products using Qs IP for ultimate sale to the research market, and into a non-exclusive license agreement with Molecular Transfer, Inc, for manufacturing and sale of such products. Q continues to employ a semi-virtual business model, utilizing outside collaborators and contractors to achieve product development activities without needing to build up internal infrastructure for many of these activities, especially such as manufacturing and GLP animal safety studies. Some of these activities are partially paid for by grant funding, reducing Qs need for outside financing. Q works closely with the collaborators and contractors. Q Therapeutics anticipates that development activities and costs will increase going forward as we conduct the work necessary to include in our future IND submission. This includes GLP animal safety studies, injection device studies, manufacturing activities and working with clinical and regulatory consultants as well as other activities and costs. We may also increase research and development activities to evaluate use of our proprietary products in other disease indications, including working with outside collaborators. The Companys general and administrative (G&A) expenses will increase going forward, including additional legal, officer salary and administration expenses needed to comply with SEC and FDA regulations, added costs such as insurance costs as we progress from a pre-clinical to a clinical company, as well as additional personnel costs. Q1 2012 Summary Q continued its development activities with Q-Cells for treatment of ALS, and conducted its pre-IND meeting with the FDA in January. The meeting was positive and Q is continuing with its plans to carry out the remaining pre-clinical studies to support an IND submission for treatment of ALS targeted in 2013. Q is working with MPI Research to carry out GLP animal safety studies in rodents in support of the IND submission. 20 Q completed a manufacturing services agreement with the University of Utah Cell Therapy Facility (CTF) and continued to work with CTF on production of Q-Cells for the animal safety studies. Q and its collaborators at Johns Hopkins (Nicholas Maragakis laboratory) continued studies further characterizing the activity of Q-Cells in support of future testing in patients with ALS. Q entered into an agreement with xCell Science LLC under which xCell will perform certain activities for Q to achieve manufacturing protocols owned by Q for several types of neural cells, derived from pluripotent cell sources (e.g., induced pluripotent stem cells, iPSC). Q will provide to xCell stock and warrants in Q Holdings as payment. Q continued to prosecute its intellectual property portfolio in the US and internationally. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 For the period from March 28, 2002 (date of inception) through March 31, 2012, the Company has not generated significant revenues and has been developing its products for commercial sale. Therefore, the Company is considered to be in the development stage. Since entering the development stage, the Company has not generated revenues in excess of expenses and has been dependent on government grants and debt and equity raised from individual investors to sustain its operations. The Companys products have not yet been approved by the FDA for commercial sale; therefore, the Company has not generated any revenues from commercial product sales. The Company has incurred losses and used cash in operating activities since inception. As of March 31, 2012, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $18,045,352. On August 30, 2011, Q Therapeutics raised bridge financing totaling $450,000. Between October 13, 2011 and December 31, 2011, the Company raised $3,828,047, before issuance costs of $197,729, in connection with a reverse merger with a public shell company, Grace 2, Inc. and a private placement offering to accredited investors. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, the Company raised an additional $190,000. As a result, management believes that the Company has sufficient liquidity to sustain operations through at least March 31, 2013. For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Change % Grant revenues $ - $ - $ - - License fees and other revenues - 4,800 (4,800 ) (100.0 ) Research and development expense 224,207 118,667 105,540 88.9 General and administrative expense 385,734 214,036 171,698 80.2 Loss from operations (609,941 ) (327,903 ) (282,038 ) (86.0 ) Other income (expense), net (973 ) (209 ) (764 ) (365.6 ) Loss before provision for income taxes (610,914 ) (328,112 ) (282,802 ) (86.2 ) Provision for income taxes - - - - Net loss $ (610,914 ) $ (328,112 ) $ (282,802 ) (86.2 )% License Fees and Other Revenues License fees and other revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012 were $0, a decrease of $4,800, or 100.0%, from $4,800 for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The decrease was attributable to no sales of Q-cells to product development partners and collaborators during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Other revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 were $0. 21 Research and Development Expense Total research and development expense increased by $105,540, or 88.9%, from $118,667 for the three months ended March 31, 2011 to $224,207 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The increase in research and development expense was primarily attributable to increases in research activities and the associated salaries and benefits, reagents, and cell manufacturing costs. General and Administrative Expense The following table details the general and administrative expenses incurred by the Company: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Change % Salaries and benefits $ 146,835 $ 110,003 $ 36,832 33.5 Professional fees 135,555 45,266 90,289 199.5 Stock-based compensation 29,308 7,330 21,978 299.8 Rent 19,189 19,266 (77 ) (0.4 ) Insurance 13,475 7,863 5,612 71.4 Other 41,372 24,308 17,064 70.2 Total $ 385,734 $ 214,036 $ 171,698 80.2 The increase in general and administrative expense was principally due to increases in salaries and benefits, professional fees, stock-based compensation, and travel (included in other). Liquidity and Capital Resources The following summarizes the key sources and uses of cash for the three months ended March 31: 2012 2011 Net cash used in operating activities $ (549,108 ) $ (227,045 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,323 ) (5,626 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 175,000 - Net increase in cash $ (375,431 ) $ (232,671 ) For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash used in operating activities totaled $549,108 compared to $227,045 for the three months ended March 31, 2011. More cash was used in operating activities due to increases in salaries, professional fees, research activities and cell manufacturing. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, net cash used in investing activities was $1,323 and $5,626 for additions to property and equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $175,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The Company raised $190,000 from a private placement of its securities during the three months ended March 31, 2012, which was partially offset by the Company paying off a $15,000 note payable. We believe that our current levels of cash, when combined with our expected cash flows from equity financing transactions will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs through at least March 31, 2013. However, we will most likely require additional cash resources in the future, as we anticipate changed business conditions and other developments in the Companys progress. We will need additional cash resources in the future if we pursue opportunities for investment, acquisition, strategic cooperation or other similar actions. To satisfy future cash requirements, we expect to seek funding through the issuance of debt or equity securities and the obtaining of a credit facility. Any future issuance of equity securities would cause dilution for our shareholders. Any incurrence of indebtedness will increase our debt service obligations and may cause us to be subject to restrictive operating and financial covenants. It is possible that financing may be available to us in amounts or on terms that are not favorable to the Company or not available at all. Recent Accounting Pronouncements As of the date of this report, there are no accounting pronouncements that had not yet been adopted by the Company that we believe would have a material impact on our financial statements. 22