Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) and related notes and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. This discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. The terms Company, IMS, we, our or us, as used herein, refer to IMS Health Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise stated or indicated by context. Amounts presented may not add due to rounding. Background We are a leading global information and technology services company providing clients in the healthcare industry with comprehensive solutions to measure and improve their performance. We have one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of healthcare information in the world, spanning sales, prescription and promotional data, medical claims, electronic medical records and social media. For information offerings, we receive data without patient identifiers and standardize, organize, structure and integrate this data by applying our sophisticated analytics and leveraging our global technology infrastructure to help our clients run their organizations more efficiently and make better decisions to improve their operational and financial performance. We have a presence in over 100 countries and we generated 63% of our 2014 revenue from outside the United States. We serve key healthcare organizations and decision makers around the world, spanning the breadth of life science companies, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology, consumer health and medical device manufacturers, as well as distributors, providers, payers, government agencies, policymakers, researchers and the financial community. Our information and technology services offerings, which we have developed with significant investment over our 60-year history, are deeply integrated into our clients workflow. Acquisitions We make acquisitions to enhance our capabilities and offerings in certain areas, including technology services. On April 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of certain customer relationship management (CRM) and strategic data businesses of Cegedim, SA (Cegedim and the Cegedim acquisition) at a price of 385 million plus an initial working capital adjustment of 11 million (or $426 million). Cegedim, headquartered in Paris, France, is a global technology and services company specializing in healthcare whose offerings help pharmaceutical companies manage their sales and marketing operations. The acquisition included Cegedims (i) CRM solutions that help life sciences clients drive sales effectiveness, optimize marketing programs across multiple channels and mitigate regulatory compliance risks; (ii) OneKey Reference Database that provides insights on healthcare professionals across the globe; and (iii) information solutions that use primary market research. The acquisition was financed through a combination of existing cash and net proceeds from our 4.125% senior unsecured notes issued in March 2015 (the 4.125% Senior Notes). We believe that the acquisition further enhances our software development, data warehousing, mobile applications and business intelligence tools, as well as analytics and implementation services. Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, we completed ten unrelated individually immaterial acquisitions, six of which occurred in the third quarter of 2015. These acquisitions expanded our existing capabilities in both information and technology services offerings. The total cost of these acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was approximately $129 million. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions will be finalized after the completion of the valuation of certain intangible assets and any adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocations are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations. The results of operations of the acquired businesses have been included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of their acquisition and, other than the Cegedim acquisition, were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. See Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information with respect to these acquisitions. Results excluding the Effects of Foreign Currency Translation and Certain Charges We report results in U.S. Dollars, but we do business on a global basis. Exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. Dollar value of foreign currency revenue and expenses and may have a significant effect on our results. The discussion of our financial results in this report includes comparisons with the prior year in constant currency terms, using consistent exchange rates. We believe this information facilitates comparison of the underlying results over time. During the first nine months of 2015, the U.S. Dollar was generally stronger against the other currencies in which we transact business as compared to the first nine months of 2014. The 21 revenue growth at actual currency rates was lower than the growth at constant currency exchange rates during the first nine months. See How Exchange Rates Affect our Results and