ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements relating to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, intends, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors including the risks set forth in the section entitled Risk Factors in our prospectus, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 28, 2022, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Report. You should read this Report with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they are made, except as required by federal securities and any other applicable law. The managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed unaudited financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the notes to the unaudited financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Report and the Companys audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the SEC in its Annual Report on Form 10-K on April 15, 2024, along with the accompanying notes. As used in this Quarterly Report, the terms we, us, our and the Company means Qrons Inc. The Company has relied primarily on its two co-founders, Jonah Meer, Chief Executive Officer, and Ido Merfeld, President, who are its sole directors to manage its day-to-day business and has outsourced professional services to third parties in an effort to maintain lower operational costs. Messrs. Meer and Merfeld, as the holders of the Companys issued and outstanding shares of the Companys Class A Preferred Stock, collectively have 66 2/3% of the voting rights of the Company. Acting together, they will be able to influence the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our stockholders. Plan of Operations We are an innovative biotechnology company dedicated to developing products, treatments and technologies that create a platform to combat neuronal and infectious diseases. The Companys approach is to marshal and leverage its proprietary research with developing unique know how and intellectual properties by seeking to engage in strategic arrangements with companies and institutions that are developing technologies in the fields of, molecular biology, stem cells, drug development and tissue engineering, for deployment in the fight against neuronal and infectious diseases, and such other indications that may make use of our technology. The Companys search is focused on researchers based in Israel, a country which is world-renowned for biotech innovations and where our researchers are based. 22 Table of Contents To date, the Company has collaborated with universities and scientists in the fields of regenerative medicine, tissue engineering and 3D printable hydrogels to develop a treatment that integrates proprietary, engineer mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), 3D printable implant, smart materials and a novel delivery system and has two product candidates for treating penetrating and non-penetrating (concussion-like) traumatic brain injuries, both integrating proprietary, anti-brain inflammation synthetic hydrogel and modified MSCs. In early 2022, the Company began collaborating with scientists at a leading University in Israel to conduct preliminary experiments to confirm that a combination of certain molecule compounds that they invented which contain immunomodulating properties when integrated with ingredients in our QS200 product candidate may substantially improve its solubility and allow very high dosage treatments which we believe offers treatment options to diffused axonal injuries. These molecules are being tested for certain indication in various Phase II trials conducted by others. We also believe that the improved dosage delivery may present a unique treatment option to patients who suffer from antibiotic resistant bacteria infection and Sepsis. We are looking to conduct such in vitro tests, which if successful we believe may provide an expedited pathway to human trials. On July 17, 2023 the Company entered into a License Agreement Term sheet with Professors Benjamin Sredni and Michael Albeck (the Professors), to which Dr. Ido Merfeld, the Companys President, was a party. Under the Agreement the Professors, inventors of certain patents, applications, processes and who possess certain related know-how particularly as to AS101 Tellurium based compounds (the Background IP), agreed to license the Background IP to the Company. Dr. Merfeld is the inventor of certain patents and possesses certain related know-how particularly as to Pseudopolyrotaxanes and Cyclodextrins, all owned by the Company (Qrons IP). The Professors granted Qrons an exclusive world-wide, perpetual license to the Background IP, unless the Background IP is returned should Qrons fail to meet certain fundraising and prosecution milestones. The Background IP, independently or together with the Qrons IP will be used as part of a new research program allowing for the use of all Background IP by Qrons to experiment and commercialize the therapeutic effect of certain Tellurium based compounds on antibiotic resistance bacterial infections, Sepsis and Traumatic brain injuries (Tellurium Research). The Tellurium Research will be allowed to expand to include other indications as progress warrants and agreed by the parties. The Professors and Merfeld as co-inventors will enter into a new patent filing for treating sepsis with certain Tellurium based compounds independently and in combination with Cyclodextrins, to be known as the New Patent. The New Patent will be assigned to Qrons, subject to Qrons rights under the Agreement. We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 Revenue We have not generated any revenue since our inception and do not expect to generate any revenue from the sale of products in the near future. 23 Table of Contents Net Loss We reported a net loss of $42,616 in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to a net loss of $68,458 in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as follows: Three Months ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net sales $ - $ - Operating expenses: Research and development expenses 55,824 6,820 Professional fees 17,143 22,345 General and administrative expenses 13,407 7,777 Total operating expenses 86,374 36,942 Income (loss) from operations (86,374 ) (36,942 ) Other income (expense) Interest expense (14,624 ) (17,477 ) Change in fair market value of derivative liabilities 58,382 (14,039 ) Total other income 43,758 (31,516 ) Net income (loss) $ (42,616 ) $ (68,458 ) Operating Expenses Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 were $86,374 compared to total operating expenses of $36,942 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 is due to a substantial increase in research and development expenses from $6,820 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to of $55,824 in the current three months ended March 31, 2024. The Company also recorded an increase to general and administrative expenses in the comparative three-month periods from $7,777 in the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $13,407 in the three months ended March 31, 2024. The reported allocations to research and development in the amount of $55,824 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 relates to $690 expended on supplies and $55,134 in stock based compensation expense recognized in the period as a result of the vesting of stock options previously granted to science advisors. In the three months ended March 31, 2023, research and development expenditures of $6,820 relate to license fees of $6,250 and supplies of $570. During the three months ended March 31, 2024 professional fees remained relatively constant with fees totaling $22,345 in the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreasing slightly to $17,143 in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as a result of a reduction to legal fees incurred. Other Income (Expense) Other income in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $43,758, which included a gain of $58,382 as a result of the change in fair market value of derivative liabilities, offset by interest expense of $14,624 which is comprised of accretion of convertible notes of $7,516, and accrued interest on convertible notes payable of $7,108. Other expense in the three months ended March 31, 2023, was $31,516, which included a loss of $14,039 as a result of the change in fair market value of derivative liabilities, and interest expense of $17,477, which is comprised of accretion of convertible notes of $11,377 and accrued interest on convertible notes payable of $6,100. 24 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $19,283 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $13,581 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily the result of net loss, increased by a non-cash item gain on change in fair market value of derivative liabilities of $58,382, offset by non-cash items accretion of debt discount of $7,516, noncash stock options issued for consulting services in the amount of $4,647 and noncash stock options issued for research and development expenses in the amount of $55,134, and changes to operating assets and liabilities, including an decrease to accounts payable of $7,293 and an increase to accounts payable-related parties of $21,711. Net Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily the result of net loss, offset by non-cash items including accretion of debt discount of $11,377, a loss from the change in derivative liabilities of $14,039 and changes to operating assets and liabilities, including an increase to accounts payable of $17,856 and an increase to accounts payable-related parties of $11,605. Investing Activities There were no investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 2023. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $22,500 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $15,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company received net proceeds of $22,500 from related parties in the form of unsecured advances. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company received $15,000 in proceeds from related parties in the form of unsecured advances. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, we had cash of $3,637. We are in the early stage of development and have experienced net losses to date and have not generated revenue from operations, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There are a number of conditions that we must satisfy before we will be able to commercialize potential products and generate revenue, including successful development of product candidates, which includes clinical trials, FDA approval, demonstration of effectiveness sufficient to generate commercial orders by customers, establishing production capabilities as well as effective marketing and sales capabilities for our product. We do not currently have sufficient resources to accomplish any of these conditions necessary for us to generate revenue and expect to incur increasing operating expenses. We will require substantial additional funds for operations, the service of debt and to fund our business objectives. There can be no assurance that financing, whether debt or equity, will be available to us in the amount required at any particular time or for any particular period or, if available, that it can be obtained on terms favorable to us. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of equity securities, such as through the issuance and exercise of warrants, then existing stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of debt or other equity instruments, we may be subject to certain limitations in our operations, and the issuance of such securities may have rights senior to those of the then existing stockholders. We currently have no agreements, arrangements or understandings with any person or entity to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit or any other sources. We continue exploring sources of debt and equity financing as well as available grants. We are currently exploring and are in discussions for a potential strategic alliance in the biotechnology field which could advance our MSCs and neurodegenerative research. as well as treat other indications. There can be no assurance that we will reach agreement on this alliance or that the necessary financing will be available to implement the research under the alliance. In such event, we may explore other relationships with other third parties to develop or commercialize products or technologies that we have not previously sought to develop or commercialize, decide to exit our existing business, cease operations altogether or pursue an acquisition of our company. However, without additional financing, we do not believe our resources will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs beyond the second quarter of 2024. Offering The Company filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC on January 11, 2022, to offer and sell up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock in a self-underwritten primary offering at a fixed price of $0.70 per share which was declared effective on January 11, 2022. To date, no shares have been sold and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in selling any of the shares being offered. 25 Table of Contents Going Concern Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and, accordingly, do not include adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in operation. Our report from our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 includes an explanatory paragraph stating the Company has recurring losses and limited operations which raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate capital, the Company may be required to reduce the scope, delay, or eliminate some or all of its planned operations. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates The financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are more fully discussed in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed financial statements contained herein. Estimates Stock Based Compensation and Other Share-Based Payments: The Company records stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, using the fair value method of the award on grant date. All transactions in which goods or services are the consideration received for the issuance of equity instruments are accounted for based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued. The expense attributable to the Companys directors is recognized over the period the amounts are earned and vested, and the expense attributable to the Companys non-employees is recognized when vested. Warrants: The Company accounts for common stock warrants in accordance with applicable accounting guidance provided in ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging, as either derivative liabilities or as equity instruments depending on the specific terms of the warrant agreement. For warrants classified as equity instruments the Company applies the Black Scholes model and expenses the fair value as financing costs. For warrants classified as derivative financial instruments the Company applies the Monte Carlo model to value the warrants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In November 2023, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2023-07, Segment ReportingImprovements to Reportable Segment Disclosures (ASU 2023-07), which requires incremental disclosures related to a public entitys reportable segments. Required disclosures include, on an annual and interim basis, significant segment expenses that are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker (CODM) and included within each reported measure of segment profit or loss, an amount for other segment items (which is the difference between segment revenue less segment expenses and less segment profit or loss) and a description of its composition, the title and position of the CODM, and an explanation of how the CODM uses the reported measure(s) of segment profit or loss in assessing segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources. The standard also permits disclosure of more than one measure of segment profit. ASU 2023-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. The Company does not believe the adoption of ASU 2023-07 will have any impact on our financial statements. 26 Table of Contents In December 2023, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2023-09, Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (ASU 2023-09), which requires public entities on an annual basis to (1) disclose specific categories in the rate reconciliation and (2) provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold (if the effect of those reconciling items is equal to or greater than 5 percent of the amount computed by multiplying pretax income or loss by the applicable statutory income tax rate). ASU 2023-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2025. We are evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2023-09 on our financial statements. In March 2024, the SEC adopted the final rule under SEC Release No. 33-11275, The Enhancement and Standardization of Climate Related Disclosures for Investors, which requires registrants to disclose climate-related information in registration statements and annual reports. The new rules would be effective for annual reporting periods beginning in fiscal year 2025. However, in April 2024, the SEC exercised its discretion to stay these rules pending the completion of judicial review of certain consolidated petitions with the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in connection with these rules. We are evaluating the impact the adoption of this rule, if any, may have on our financial statements.