ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "Qwest," "we," "us" and "our" refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, references to "QCII" refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. on an unconsolidated, stand-alone basis and references to "CenturyLink" refer to our direct parent company, CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this quarterly report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. The results of operations for the first six months of the year are not indicative of the results of operations that might be expected for the entire year. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), broadband, data, managed hosting, wireless and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to competitive local exchange carriers. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. We generate the majority of our revenues from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We refer to this region as our local service area. As discussed in Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLink, on April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink in connection with a stock-for-stock acquisition. The aggregate consideration was approximately $12.273 billion, calculated in the manner described in Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLink. Since April 1, 2011, our results of operations have been included in the consolidated results of operations of CenturyLink. CenturyLink has accounted for its acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The aggregate consideration exceeded the aggregate estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by $10.123 billion, which we have recognized as goodwill. This goodwill is attributable to strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks that we expect CenturyLink and its consolidated subsidiaries, including us, to realize. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The recognition of assets and liabilities at fair value is reflected in our financial statements and therefore has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the "successor period" beginning on April 1, 2011. This new basis of accounting means that our financial statements for the successor periods will not be comparable to our previously reported financial statements, including the predecessor period financial statements in this report. 30 Table of Contents The discussion in MD&A of our performance for the six months ended June 30, 2011 is presented on a combined basis for the predecessor and successor periods in 2011. We believe this presentation allows the results of operations for this period to be more readily compared to the comparable six-month period in 2012. We have incurred operating expenses related to CenturyLink's acquisition of us, which consist primarily of integration and severance expenses. The table below summarizes our acquisition-related expenses: Acquisition-related expenses $ 3 29 127 3 130 CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries, including us, under which the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink. We report the balance of these transfers on our balance sheet as advances to affiliates. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, our operations have been integrated into and reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLink's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Consequently, we do not provide our discrete financial information to the CODM on a regular basis. As such, we now have one reportable segment and we have reclassified our prior period results to conform to our current view. We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services, which include primarily private line (including special access), broadband, Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS") (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), Ethernet, hosting, video (including resold satellite video services), voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, integrated services digital network ("ISDN") (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), switched access and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration, which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our government and business customers; and Affiliates and other services, which consist primarily of universal service funds ("USF") revenues and surcharges and services we provide to our affiliates. We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates computer system development and support services and network support and technical services. During the first quarter of 2012, we reclassified certain prior period revenues between the aforementioned four categories to conform to the current period presentation. As of the successor date of June 30, 2012, we served approximately 3.2 million broadband subscribers. As described below, during the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for 31 Table of Contents counting broadband subscribers to include business and wholesale subscribers instead of only retail and small business subscribers. We also operated approximately 8.3 million access lines, which are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network. We count access lines when we install the service. Our methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. Our methodology for counting our access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 1 of this report. Business Trends Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Strategic services. We continue to see shifts in the makeup of our total revenues as customers move to strategic services, such as private line, broadband and video services, from legacy services, such as local and access services. Revenues from our strategic services represented 44% and 43% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 43% of our total revenues for both the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 and the combined six months ended June 30, 2011, and we expect that this percentage will continue to grow. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services, particularly among consumer and small business customers. We believe that continually increasing connection speeds is important to remaining competitive in our industry. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node ("FTTN") deployment, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network made up of only copper wires. In addition to our FTTN deployment, we continue to expand our product offerings, including Ethernet and MPLS, and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a mature market in which most consumers already have broadband services. While traditional broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber based broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our broadband revenues. Another trend impacting our strategic services is the deployment of fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers, which in many cases replaces existing copper-based special access services. We ultimately believe the growth in fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain. Legacy services. Revenues from our legacy services represented 43% and 48% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 44% and 49% of our total revenues for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 and the combined six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively, and we expect that this percentage will continue to decline. Our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are replacing traditional voice telecommunications service with substitute services, including (i) cable and wireless voice services and (ii) electronic mail, texting and social networking services. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business. As a result of the expected loss of access 32 Table of Contents line revenues, we continue to offer service bundling and other product promotions to help mitigate this trend, as described below. Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal government customers. Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While our video and wireless services are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not significantly contribute to our strategic services revenues. However, we believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual products, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention and our ability to compete with other telecommunications service providers. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer from time to time limited time promotions on our broadband service, which we believe further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our services. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. Pension and post-retirement benefits expenses. We are required to recognize in our consolidated financial statements certain expenses relating to our pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans. These expenses are calculated based on several assumptions, including among other things discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are generally set at December 31 of each year. Changes in these assumptions can cause significant changes in the combined net periodic benefits expenses we recognize. We allocate the expenses of these plans to certain of our other affiliates. The allocation of expenses is based upon the demographics of employees and retirees at our affiliates. Changes in our assumptions can cause significant changes in the net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recognize. Strategic capital investment. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband and the deployment of fiber to the tower ("FTTT"). FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, additional events, uncertainties and trends discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations: Operating revenues $ 2,836 5,675 2,769 2,846 5,615 Operating expenses 2,545 5,094 2,631 2,267 4,898 Operating income 291 581 138 579 717 Other income (expense) (227 ) (392 ) (151 ) (222 ) (373 ) Income tax expense 27 75 146 146 Net income (loss) $ 37 114 (13 ) 211 198 The following table summarizes certain of our operational metrics: Broadband subscribers 3,248 3,101 147 5 % Access lines 8,276 8,804 (528 ) (6 )% Employees 25,600 27,600 (2,000 ) (7 )% During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to better align with the methodology used by our parent company, CenturyLink. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. 34 Table of Contents Operating Revenues The following tables summarize our operating revenues: Strategic services $ 1,235 1,194 41 3 % Legacy services 1,227 1,333 (106 ) (8 )% Data integration 140 118 22 19 % Affiliates and other services 234 124 110 89 % Total operating revenues $ 2,836 2,769 67 2 % Strategic services $ 2,457 1,194 1,200 2,394 63 3 % Legacy services 2,484 1,333 1,400 2,733 (249 ) (9 )% Data integration 256 118 123 241 16 7 % Affiliates and other services 478 124 123 247 230 93 % Total operating revenues $ 5,675 2,769 2,846 5,615 60 1 % Strategic Services Strategic services revenues increased in both of the comparative periods reflected in the tables above due to an increase in the volume of our Ethernet and MPLS services and higher broadband revenues resulting from increases in broadband customers and average broadband rates attributable to increased sales of higher speed broadband services. Our growth in revenues was partially offset by decreased sales volumes of our private line services. Legacy Services Legacy services revenues decreased in both of the comparative periods as a result of lower local and long-distance services revenues due to access line loss and reduced access services usage related to the above-described competitive pressures and product substitution. Legacy services revenues also decreased in both of the comparative periods due to lower revenues from our traditional WAN services caused by customer migration, product substitution and increased competition. Part of the decrease in legacy services revenues for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 is attributable to lower amortization of deferred revenue due to predecessor deferred installation and activation revenue being assigned no value at the acquisition date. Data Integration Revenues from data integration increased in both of the comparative periods primarily due to increased equipment sales and professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. 35 Table of Contents Affiliates and Other Services Affiliates and other services revenues increased in both of the comparative periods primarily due to a change in methodology effective January 1, 2012 that resulted in both higher affiliate revenues and expenses for us. See Note 1Basis of Presentation. A portion of the increase in affiliates and other services revenues for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 is attributable to telecommunications services we provided to affiliates since CenturyLink's April 1, 2011 acquisition of us. Operating Expenses The following tables summarize our operating expenses: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,213 1,141 72 6 % Selling, general and administrative 444 656 (212 ) (32 )% Operating expensesaffiliates 150 32 118 nm Depreciation and amortization 738 802 (64 ) (8 )% Total operating expenses $ 2,545 2,631 (86 ) (3 )% Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 2,388 1,141 1,178 2,319 69 3 % Selling, general and administrative 928 656 556 1,212 (284 ) (23 )% Operating expensesaffiliates 299 32 32 267 nm Depreciation and amortization 1,479 802 533 1,335 144 11 % Total operating expenses $ 5,094 2,631 2,267 4,898 196 4 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Effective January 1, 2012, we changed our rates of capitalized labor as we transitioned certain legacy systems to the historical systems of our parent, CenturyLink. This transition resulted in an estimated $20 million to $30 million increase in the amount of labor capitalized as an asset compared to the amount that would have been capitalized if we had continued to use our legacy systems and a corresponding estimated $20 million to $30 million decrease in operating expenses for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012. This change is expected to result in an estimated operating expense reduction of approximately $30 million to $50 million for the successor year ending December 31, 2012. Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are expenses incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These expenses include: employee-related expenses 36 Table of Contents directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages, benefits and professional fees); facilities expenses (which are expenses we incur from using other carriers' networks to provide services to our customers); rents and utilities expenses; equipment sales expenses (such as data integration and modem expenses); costs for USF (which reflect our contributions to certain federal and state funds that are established to promote the availability of telecommunications services to all consumers at reasonable and affordable rates, among other things); and other expenses directly related to our network and hosting operations. These expenses increased in both of the comparative periods reflected in the tables above primarily due to increased customer premise equipment costs, professional fees, and USF contribution rates, as well as a paid time off accounting adjustment for our union employees. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses are expenses incurred in selling products and services to our customers, corporate overhead and other operating expenses. These expenses include: employee-related expenses (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions, benefits and professional fees) directly attributable to selling products or services and employee-related expenses for administrative functions; marketing and advertising; taxes (such as property and other taxes) and fees; external commissions; bad debt expense; and other operating expenses. These expenses decreased in the six-month comparative periods reflected in the tables above primarily due to a decrease in acquisition-related expenses. The remainder of these decreases is also due to decreased pension expense, professional fees and marketing and advertising expense during both of the comparable periods presented. Operating ExpensesAffiliates Effective January 1, 2012, in connection with post-acquisition systems integration activities, we adopted the affiliate expense allocation methodology used by our parent. This methodology results in certain overhead costs incurred by us and by our parent that were previously assessed to us on a net basis now being assessed on a gross basis both to and from our parent, resulting in both higher affiliate revenues and expenses for us. We believe this change, resulting from systems integration activities, did not have a significant impact to our net income for the successor three and six months ended June 30, 2012. Since CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we have incurred affiliates expenses related to our use of telecommunications services, marketing and employee related support services provided to us by CenturyLink and certain of its subsidiaries. A portion of the increase in operating expenses-affiliates for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 is attributable to incurring these intercompany expenses for the entire 2012 period compared to only half of the 2011 period. 37 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization The following tables provide detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense: Depreciation $ 374 403 (29 ) (7 )% Amortization 364 399 (35 ) (9 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 738 802 (64 ) (8 )% Depreciation $ 752 403 475 878 (126 ) (14 )% Amortization 727 399 58 457 270 59 % Total depreciation and amortization $ 1,479 802 533 1,335 144 11 % In connection with us being acquired as of April 1, 2011, our property, plant and equipment was recognized at fair value, which reduced the recognized amounts of our net property, plant and equipment. This decrease in asset value resulted in $77 million lower depreciation expense for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012, as compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011. Effective January 1, 2012, we also changed our estimates of the economic lives of certain telecommunications equipment. These changes resulted in an additional decrease to depreciation expense of approximately $23 million and $46 million for the successor three and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively. The accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us also resulted in additional amortizable intangible assets, which increased amortization expense approximately $261 million for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012, as compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011. In addition, our capitalized software was also recognized at fair value, which resulted in an increase of $59 million in amortization expense for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012, as compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011. These increases were offset by $54 million in lower amortization expense for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 due to lower net investment in our capitalized software. 38 Table of Contents Other Consolidated Results The following tables summarize our total other income (expense) and income tax expense: Interest expense $ (154 ) (150 ) 4 3 % Interest expenseaffiliates (30 ) 30 nm Net loss on early retirement of debt (45 ) (1 ) 44 nm Other income 2 2 nm Total other income (expense) $ (227 ) (151 ) 76 50 % Income tax expense $ 27 27 nm Interest expense $ (324 ) (150 ) (227 ) (377 ) (53 ) (14 )% Interest expenseaffiliates (34 ) 34 nm Net loss on early retirement of debt (37 ) (1 ) (1 ) 36 nm Other income 3 5 5 (2 ) (40 )% Total other income (expense) $ (392 ) (151 ) (222 ) (373 ) 19 5 % Income tax expense $ 75 146 146 (71 ) (49 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense during the successor three months ended June 30, 2012 compared to the successor three months ended June 30, 2011 remained relatively flat. Interest expense decreased $53 million during the successor six months ended June 30, 2012, compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011, primarily due to the a decrease in the interest rates of debt securities issued and those retired. This was partially offset by a reduction in the amount of debt premium amortization due to the retirement of several debt securities, which have carried premiums since CenturyLink's acquisition of us. Interest ExpenseAffiliates Interest expense increased during the successor three and six months ended June 30, 2012 primarily due to increased affiliate loan balances, which QCII used to retire several debt securities during the period. The increase is also due to CenturyLink's cash management arrangement between certain of its subsidiaries, including us, under which the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink. We report the balance of these transfers on our balance sheet as advances to affiliates. 39 Table of Contents Net Loss on Early Retirement of Debt During the second quarter of 2012, QCII redeemed $500 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. During the second quarter of 2012, Qwest Corporation ("QC") completed a premium-priced cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $811 million of 8.375% Notes due 2016 and its $400 million of 7.625% Notes due 2015. With respect to its 8.375% Notes due 2016, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $575 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 71%, for $722 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.625% Notes due 2015, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $308 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 77%, for $369 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of this tender offer resulted in a loss of $46 million. In the first quarter of 2012, QCII redeemed $800 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 was $75 million, or an effective tax rate of 39.7%, as compared to income tax expense for the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 of $146 million, or an effective tax rate of 42.4%. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We are a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. As such, factors relating to, or affecting, CenturyLink's liquidity and capital resources could have material impacts on us, including impacts on our credit ratings, our access to capital markets and changes in the financial market's perception of us. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries that include lines of credit, affiliate obligations, capital contributions and dividends. As part of these cash management arrangements, affiliates provide lines of credit to certain other affiliates. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit and intercompany obligations vary from time to time. Under these arrangements, the majority of our cash balance is advanced on a daily basis to CenturyLink. From time to time we may declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink, using cash repaid to us under these advances, which has the net effect of reducing the amount of these advances. Given our upgrade to an investment grade rating on April 1, 2011, our debt covenants do not currently limit the amount of dividends we can pay to CenturyLink. Given our cash management arrangement with CenturyLink and the resulting amounts due to us from CenturyLink, a significant component of our liquidity is dependent upon CenturyLink's ability to repay its obligation to us. As of the successor date of June 30, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $2.6 billion, reflecting current liabilities of $4.8 billion and current assets of $2.2 billion, compared to a working capital deficit of $280 million as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. The change in our working capital position is primarily due to a $1.2 billion increase in current maturities of long-term debt due to our anticipation of retiring $484 million aggregate principal amount of QC debt on July 20, 2012 (discussed below). The change in our working capital position is also due to a $669 million reduction in the amounts owed to us by our affiliates during the first half of 2012. Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Subject to market conditions, from time to time we expect to continue to issue debt securities through QC to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned QC by the three major credit rating agencies, among other factors. 40 Table of Contents On July 20, 2012, QC redeemed all $484 million of its 7.5% Notes due 2023, which resulted in an immaterial loss. On June 25, 2012, QC issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $387 million. The notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after July 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest. On May 17, 2012, QCII redeemed $500 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. On April 18, 2012, QC completed a cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $811 million of 8.375% Notes due 2016 and its $400 million of 7.625% Notes due 2015. With respect to its 8.375% Notes due 2016, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $575 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 71%, for $722 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.625% Notes due 2015, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $308 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 77%, for $369 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of this tender offer resulted in a loss of $46 million. In connection with consummating this tender offer, QC borrowed from a CenturyLink affiliate approximately $583 million under a revolving promissory note, payable upon demand. The promissory note is unsecured and is pari passu to QC's Senior Notes. On April 2, 2012, QC issued $525 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $508 million. The notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after April 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest. On March 1, 2012, QCII redeemed $800 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. On April 6, 2012, CenturyLink amended and restated its $1.7 billion revolving credit facility to increase the aggregate principal amount available to $2.0 billion and to extend the maturity date to April 2017. This amended credit facility (the "Credit Facility") has 18 lenders, with commitments ranging from $2.5 million to $177 million and allows CenturyLink to obtain revolving loans and to issue up to $400 million of letters of credit, which will reduce the amount available for other extensions of credit. Interest will be assessed on future borrowings using either LIBOR or the base rate (as defined in the Credit Facility) plus an applicable margin between 1.25% and 2.25% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.25% and 1.25% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. CenturyLink's obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by QCII and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Qwest Services Corporation ("QSC"). As of the successor date of June 30, 2012, there was $250 million in borrowings and zero in letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. CenturyLink also maintains a separate letter of credit arrangement with a financial institution to which we have access. On April 18, 2012, CenturyLink, Inc. entered into a term loan in the amount of $440 million, which has been guaranteed by QCII and its wholly-owned subsidiary, QSC. As of the successor date of June 30, 2012, we believe we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants of our debt agreements. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as 41 Table of Contents forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash generated by operating activities and regulatory considerations. Our 2012 capital expenditures will be determined in part by the strategic initiatives of our parent, CenturyLink. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on primarily our broadband services. Throughout 2012, we anticipate that our fiber investment, which includes FTTT, will be slightly lower to that spent in 2011. FTTT is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. CenturyLink has agreed to accept approximately $35 million of the $90 million available to it from Phase 1 of the Federal Communications Commission's ("FCC") Connect America Fund ("CAF") established by Congress to help telecommunications carriers defray the cost of providing broadband access to remote customers. Of the $35 million, QC will receive approximately $30 million and intends to use the funds to deploy broadband service for up to 39,000 homes in unserved rural areas principally in Colorado, Minnesota, New Mexico and Washington. CenturyLink has determined that restrictions on the use of these funds have made acceptance of additional CAF funds uneconomical. CenturyLink has, however, filed with the FCC a waiver application, which, if granted, would allow QC to deploy broadband services with CAF funds to approximately 56,000 more homes in high-cost unserved areas in its markets. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. The accounting funding status of our plans is measured annually at December 31. As of the successor date of December 31, 2011, the accounting unfunded status of our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations was $650 million and $2.7 billion, respectively. See Note 8Employee Benefits of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust and contributions required to be made to the trust are governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. On July 6, 2012, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act ("MAP-21") was signed into law. This legislation contains pension-related provisions which, among other things, provide near-term relief from the impact of recent low interest rates on pension funding requirements and an increase in the premiums paid to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC"). Under MAP-21, companies will be permitted to calculate their pension obligations based on 25-year historic average rates, which exceed the two-year average rates being used prior to the legislation. Consequently, this legislation will lower the amount of required pension plan contributions. This relief is available commencing in 2012, but gradually decreases each year through 2016, at which time the reduced level of relief is frozen with respect to future years. Based on several assumptions, we have projected that this relief will reduce our pension plan funding requirements over the next five years by approximately $600 million, which will correspondingly enhance our cash flows over this period. The legislation will not, however, affect pension liabilities recorded on our financial statements under generally accepted accounting principles and, consequently, the near-term funding relief could increase our future pension plan contributions in later years. Partially, offsetting this benefit, MAP-21 provides for an annual increase beginning in 2013 to both the fixed premiums, based on plan participants, and the variable premiums, based on unfunded vested benefits, paid to PBGC. Based on various assumptions, we estimate that our premiums payable to PBGC over the next five years will increase by $38 million as a result of the new legislation. The actual amount of required contributions to our plans, and premiums paid to PBGC, will depend on earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest and 42 Table of Contents discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and any further changes in funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of the trust assets was $643 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately four years, based on current circumstances. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected four year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on changes in projected health care costs, returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimated annual long-term rate of return on the pension and post-retirement plans trust assets is 7.5% based on the assets currently held; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. Historical Information The following table summarizes our cash flow activities: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,078 700 777 1,477 (399 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 50 (856 ) (408 ) (1,264 ) 1,314 Net cash used in financing activities (1,135 ) (221 ) (317 ) (538 ) 597 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to the repayment to our parent for pension plan contributions they made on our behalf in December 2011. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash provided by investing activities increased in the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 primarily due to changes in advances to affiliates. During the successor six months ended June 30, 2012, we received $669 million from our affiliates compared to $511 million we advanced to our affiliates during the combined six months ended June 30, 2011. The increase in cash provided by investing activities is also due to $133 million of proceeds from the sale of property during the successor six months ended June 30, 2012. Net cash used in financing activities increased in the successor six months ended June 30, 2012 primarily due to $1.2 billion of additional payments of long-term debt and $164 million of additional early retirement of debt costs compared to the combined six months ended June 30, 2011. These increases were offset by $583 million provided by notes payable to our affiliates, as well as a $254 million increase in the net proceeds from the issuance of debt securities. Certain Matters Related to CenturyLink's Acquisition of Us Effective after CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. CenturyLink is in the process of developing a post-acquisition intercompany agreement for allocation of consolidated income tax liabilities. We will continue to account for income 43 Table of Contents tax expense on a stand-alone basis. We are also included in certain combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same accounting will apply. As of the successor date of June 30, 2012, we paid certain costs that were associated with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. These costs include compensation costs comprised of retention bonuses and severance. The final amounts and timing of the compensation costs to be paid is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that continue to be made as part of the continuing integration process. These amounts may be material. In accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we recognized our debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of our debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million, which we recorded as premium. The table below summarizes the premiums recognized as a reduction to interest expense or extinguished during the periods indicated: Amortized $ 48 154 202 Extinguished(1) 140 58 198 Total premiums recognized $ 188 212 400 (1) See "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements" for more information. The remaining premium of $293 million as of the successor date of June 30, 2012 will reduce interest expense in future periods, unless otherwise extinguished. Other Matters We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. See Note 9Commitment and Contingencies for the current status of such legal proceedings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements or (ii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" below. There were no substantial changes to our off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual obligations in the successor six months ended June 30, 2012, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed 44 Table of Contents interest rates for variable interest rates. As of the successor date of June 30, 2012, we had no such instruments outstanding. There were no material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the successor six months ended June 30, 2012, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Other Information Our website is the same as that of our parent company, CenturyLink, which is www.centurylink.com . We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including those arising out of the Federal Communications Commission's October 27, 2011 order regarding intercarrier compensation and the USF, among other things); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by CenturyLink's recent acquisitions of Savvis, us and Embarq; CenturyLink's ability to successfully integrate the operations of Savvis and us into its operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; CenturyLink's and our ability to use net operating loss carryovers in projected amounts; CenturyLink's ability to effectively manage its expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal proceedings involving CenturyLink or us; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in CenturyLink's or our pension funding requirements or otherwise; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this report (including in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason. 45 Table of Contents