Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth under the Risk Factors, Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Business sections in our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Company Overview Q Therapeutics, Inc. (hereinafter Q Therapeutics or the Company) conducts its business and operations through its wholly owned subsidiary, Q Therapeutic Products, Inc. (hereinafter Q Products) and Q Products wholly owned subsidiary, NeuroQ Research, Inc. Q Therapeutics is a Salt Lake City, Utah-based biopharmaceutical company that is developing human cell-based therapies intended to treat degenerative diseases of the brain and spinal cord, the primary components of the central nervous system (CNS). Q Therapeutics was incorporated in the state of Delaware on October 27, 2005. Q Products was incorporated in the state of Delaware on March 28, 2002. These therapies are based upon the technology developed by Q Products co-founder, Mahendra Rao, M.D., Ph.D., a global leader in glial stem cell biology, during Dr. Raos tenure as a Professor at the University of Utah and as Head of the Stem Cell Section in the Laboratory of Neuroscience at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Institute of Aging. Dr. Rao was one of the first scientists to identify and seek patent coverage on stem cells and their progeny cells found in the CNS. After licensing Dr. Raos technology from the University of Utah and NIH, Q Products commenced operations in the spring of 2004 to develop cell-based therapeutic products that can be sold as off -the-shelf pharmaceuticals. Objectives of Q Therapeutics Every year, hundreds of thousands of people suffer with debilitating neurodegenerative diseases of the brain and spinal cord. Q Therapeutics primary business objective is to develop and commercialize novel therapeutic products to treat these diseases as they represent areas of significant clinical need and commercial opportunity. Q Therapeutics is advancing its initial product, trademarked Q-Cells to the market to treat Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (Lou Gehrigs disease or ALS), and eventually other indications, potentially including Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Transverse Myelitis (TM), Spinal Cord Injury (SCI), Stroke, Huntingtons Disease, Parkinsons Disease and Alzheimers disease. Q-Cells are healthy human glial cells. The role of glial cells in the brain and spine is to support and protect neurons, which form the signal transmission lines of the CNS. Glial cells perform many functions including forming an insulating myelin sheath around neuronal axons providing the necessary growth factors needed to maintain a healthy nervous system, and removing compounds that are toxic to neurons. Many neurodegenerative diseases arise when glial cells are damaged or destroyed, causing neurons to malfunction and eventually die. Q-Cells technology aims to treat neurodegenerative diseases by supplementing the damaged or missing glia in the CNS with new, healthy cells that can help maintain and/or restore neuron function to a more robust state. The diseases targeted by Q Therapeutics products are not well treated with current drug therapies. At best, patients suffering from these diseases can, in some cases, only hope to slow their inexorable progression and the associated disabilities. A handful of companies are exploring the possibility of harnessing the power of stem or progenitors cells to treat these conditions, although no clear leader has emerged. In addition to utilizing its proprietary cellular products as therapeutic products, Q Therapeutics may evaluate novel ways to utilize these cells to screen for new drugs (such as small molecule compounds) that could also provide treatments for neurological diseases. Initially, Q Therapeutics is targeting orphan diseases where the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) can allow fast-track approvals and market exclusivity, and for which smaller, less-expensive clinical trials may be warranted. This approach can result in accelerated commercialization efforts while maintaining a financing approach focused on capital efficiency. Q Therapeutics believes that a worldwide market exists for those companies whose cell-based treatments become commercial products. Q Therapeutics patent protected technology represents an opportunity to build on the recent advancements in the cell therapy field and bring to market a therapeutic approach that will change the way medicine is practiced in treating many disabling and fatal conditions of the CNS. 11 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2013: For the period from March 28, 2002 (date of inception) through March 31, 2014, we have not generated significant revenues and have been focused on developing our products for therapeutic use for commercial sale. Q Therapeutics is considered to be a development stage company. We have not generated revenues in excess of expenses and have been dependent on government grants and debt and equity raised from investors to sustain our operations. Our products have not yet been approved by the FDA for commercial sale, and as a result we have not generated revenues from therapeutic product sales. We have incurred losses and used cash in operating activities since inception. As of March 31, 2014, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $25,051,277 and negative working capital of $1,178,773. Revenues The Company has generated minimal revenues through (1) research grants from foundations and government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), (2) granting rights to the Companys technology to other entities, and (3) sales of its products for research purposes. Grant revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 were $0 and $5,501, respectively. Grant revenues consisted of a sub-award we received as part of a grant awarded to The Johns Hopkins University. We anticipate grant revenues to increase when the year 4 funding of the NIH grant is approved. Research and Development Expenses Q Therapeutics anticipates that development activities and costs will remain approximately the same as we advance the work necessary to complete our future Investigational New Drug (IND) submission. This includes Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) animal safety studies, injection device studies, manufacturing activities and working with clinical and regulatory consultants. Should additional financing be obtained, we may also increase research and development activities to evaluate use of our proprietary products in other disease indications, including working with outside collaborators. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014, were $481,144, an increase of $353,035, or 267%, from $131,109 for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase is primarily due to the one-time costs associated with the commencement of a large animal safety study. We anticipate research and development expenses to remain at approximately the same levels, or increase as necessary, as we progress towards commercializing our product candidates. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 were $583,862, an increase of $209,143, or 56%, from $374,719 for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase is primarily related to stock-based compensation expense resulting from director, officer and employee option grants of $223,384 offset, in part, by a decrease in legal and professional fees of $16,859. We anticipate general and administrative expenses to remain at approximately the same levels going forward. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash used in operating activities totaled $342,510 compared to $120,304 for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Cash outflows increased in 2014 primarily due to increases in research and development expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash used in investing activities related to the purchase of lab and computer equipment of $5,615 compared to $19,851 for the three months ended March 31, 2013. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash provided by financing activities was $490,000 compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Cash provided by financing activities was sourced from the 2014 Financing Transactions. As of March 31, 2014, the Company had negative working capital of $1,178,773. Between March 7 and April 14, 2014, the Company received $2,012,500 in cash proceeds from two separate tranches of the 2014 Financing Transactions. 12 Table of Contents We believe that our current levels of cash, when combined with (1) our expected cash flows from grant revenues, and (2) reductions to our current operating expenses, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs through at least December 31, 2014. However, we will need additional cash resources in the future if we pursue opportunities for investment, acquisition, strategic cooperation or other similar actions. To satisfy future cash requirements, we expect to seek funding through government grants, the issuance of debt or equity securities and/or the obtaining of a credit facility. Any future issuance of equity securities would cause dilution for our stockholders. Any incurrence of indebtedness will increase our debt service obligations and may cause us to be subject to restrictive operating and financial covenants. It is possible that we will be unsuccessful securing future government grants and financing may not be available to us in amounts or on terms that are favorable to the Company or not available at all. Subsequent Events On April 14, 2014, we received $1,522,500 from the second tranche of the 2014 Financing Transactions. The Company issued 1,522,500 units consisting of one share of common stock and one warrant to purchase common stock. The terms of the warrants are similar to those issued in the first tranche of the 2014 Financing Transactions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Company has reviewed recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and does not believe the future adoption of any such pronouncements will have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Significant Accounting Policies Significant accounting policies are those policies which are both important to the presentation of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most subjective or complex judgments. Often estimates are required to be made about matters that are inherently uncertain. No significant changes to our accounting policies occurred during the periods presented. For a further discussion of our significant accounting policies, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.