Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) and related notes and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. This discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. The terms Company, IMS, we, our or us, as used herein, refer to IMS Health Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise stated or indicated by context. Amounts presented may not add due to rounding. Background We are a leading global information and technology services company providing clients in the healthcare industry with comprehensive solutions to measure and improve their performance. We have one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of healthcare information in the world, spanning sales, prescription and promotional data, medical claims, electronic medical records and social media. We standardize, organize, structure and integrate this data by applying our sophisticated analytics and leveraging our global technology infrastructure to help our clients run their organizations more efficiently and make better decisions to improve their operational and financial performance. We have a presence in over 100 countries and we generated 61% of our 2015 revenue from outside the United States. We serve key healthcare organizations and decision makers around the world, spanning the breadth of life science companies, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology, consumer health and medical device manufacturers, as well as distributors, providers, payers, government agencies, policymakers, researchers and the financial community. Our information and technology services offerings, which we have developed with significant investment over our 60+ year history, are deeply integrated into our clients workflow. Proposed Merger On May 3, 2016, IMS and Quintiles Transnational Holdings Inc. (Quintiles) entered into a definitive merger agreement, pursuant to which the companies will be combined. The merged company will be renamed Quintiles IMS Holdings, Inc. Under the terms of the merger agreement, our shareholders will receive 0.3840 shares of Quintiles common stock for each share of IMS common stock. Upon completion of the merger, our shareholders will own approximately 51.4 percent of the shares of the combined company on a fully diluted basis and Quintiles shareholders will own approximately 48.6 percent of the combined company on a fully diluted basis. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and approval by both our and Quintiles shareholders, and is expected to close early in the fourth quarter of 2016. Acquisitions We make acquisitions to enhance our capabilities and offerings in certain areas, including technology services. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, we completed five unrelated individually immaterial acquisitions, one of which occurred in the second quarter of 2016. The total cost of these acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was approximately $281 million. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions will be finalized after the completion of the valuation of certain intangible assets and any adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocations are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations. The results of operations of the acquired businesses have been included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of their acquisition and were not significant to our condensed consolidated results of operations. On April 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of certain customer relationship management and strategic data businesses of Cegedim, SA (Cegedim and the Cegedim acquisition) for a total purchase price, after a working capital adjustment, of approximately $445 million. See Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information with respect to these acquisitions. Results excluding the Effects of Foreign Currency Translation and Certain Charges We report results in U.S. Dollars, but we do business on a global basis. Exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. Dollar value of foreign currency revenue and expenses and may have a significant effect on our results. The discussion of our financial results in this report includes comparisons with the prior year in constant currency terms, using consistent exchange rates. We believe this 19 information facilitates comparison of the underlying results over time. During the three months ended June 30, 2016, the U.S. Dollar was generally stronger against the other currencies in which we transact business as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015, except for the Euro and Japanese Yen. During the first six months of 2016, the U.S. Dollar was generally stronger against the other currencies in which we transact business as compared to the f irst six months of 2015, except for the Japanese Yen. The revenue growth at actual currency rates was lower than the growth at constant currency exchange rates during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. See How Exchange Rates Affect our Results and