MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to Qwest, we, us, the Company and our refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, and references in this report to QCII refer to Qwest Communications International Inc. on an unconsolidated, stand-alone basis. Overview Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The results of operations for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011, the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2010, the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and predecessor six months ended June 30, 2011 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations which might be expected for the entire year. On April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. Each outstanding share of our common stock was converted into 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The estimated aggregate consideration was approximately $12.273 billion. Since April 1, 2011, our results of operations have been included in the consolidated results of operations of CenturyLink. CenturyLink has accounted for its acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. We expect to complete our final determinations no later than the first quarter of 2012. Our final determinations may be significantly different than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2011. Based on our preliminary estimate, the aggregate consideration exceeds the aggregate estimated fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities by $10.005 billion, which has been recognized as goodwill. This goodwill is attributable to strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks that we expect CenturyLink and its consolidated subsidiaries, including us, to realize. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The recognition of assets and liabilities at fair value is reflected in our financial statements and therefore has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the successor period beginning on April 1, 2011. This new basis of accounting means that our financial statements for the successor periods will not be comparable to our previously reported financial statements, including the predecessor period financial statements in this report. We have recognized $127 million of certain expenses that were contingent on completion of the CenturyLink acquisition, primarily compensation expense comprised of severance, retention bonuses and share-based compensation for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011. During the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, we had recognized $3 million of expenses associated with our activities surrounding the acquisition. As of April 1, 2011, as part of acquisition accounting, we also included in our goodwill $35 million for financial advisory fees, $23 million for certain performance awards and $16 million related to retention bonuses, all of which were contingent on the completion of the acquisition and had no benefit to CenturyLink after the acquisition. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries, including us, under which the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink. 28 Table of Contents The discussion in this MD&A is presented on a combined basis of the predecessor and successor periods for 2011. The 2011 predecessor and successor results are presented but are not discussed separately. We believe that the discussion on a combined basis is more meaningful as it allows the results of operations to be analyzed to a comparable period in 2010. We are an integrated communications company primarily engaged in providing an array of communications services, including local and long distance voice, wholesale network access, broadband, managed hosting, other data services and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide fiber transport and services to competitive local exchange carriers and other communications, professional and business information services. We generate the majority of our revenues from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We operate approximately 8.8 million access lines, which are telephone lines reaching from the customers premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network. We also serve approximately 3.0 million broadband subscribers as of June 30, 2011. During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines where we provide the services. We now count access lines when we install the service. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our new methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand alone broadband subscribers. For certain products and services we provide, and for a variety of internal communications functions, we use parts of CenturyLinks telecommunications network to transport voice and data traffic. During the second quarter of 2011, our dedicated internet access services were reclassified from our legacy services to strategic services and certain USF surcharges were reclassified from our legacy services to affiliates and other services revenues to better align with the classifications that our parent, CenturyLink, uses. As a result, we reclassified previously reported amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011 this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $65 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $30 million and an increase of affiliates and other services revenues of $34 million. For the predecessor three months ended June 30, 2010 this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $71 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $37 million and an increase of affiliates and other services revenues of $34 million. For the predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010 this reclassification resulted in a reduction of legacy service revenues of $148 million, an increase of strategic service revenues of $77 million and an increase of affiliates and other services revenues of $70 million. We currently categorize our products and services among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily private line (including special access), broadband, MPLS (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting, video, voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, services and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services, which include primarily local, long-distance, access, integrated services digital network, or ISDN, services and traditional wide area network, or WAN, services; and Data integration , which is telecommunications equipment we sell that is located on customers premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our government and business customers. Affiliates and other services , which consist primarily of USF surcharges and services we provide to our affiliates. We provide to our affiliates data, local services and billing and collections services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates: marketing, sales and 29 Table of Contents advertising services; computer system development and support services; network support and technical services; and other support services, such as legal, regulatory, finance and accounting, tax and human resources. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the trends affecting our business. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of the CenturyLink acquisition, our operations were integrated into and are reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLinks CODM has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the SEC. Consequently, we no longer provide Qwest-only segment information. Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Strategic services. We continue to see shifts in the makeup of our total revenues as customers move to strategic services, such as private line, broadband and video services, from legacy services, such as local and access services. Revenues from our strategic services represented 44% and 39% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011 and the predecessor three months ended June 30, 2010, respectively, and 43% and 39% of our total revenues for the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and the predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively, and this percentage continues to grow. With respect to broadband services, we continue to focus on increasing subscribers, particularly among consumer and small business customers. We reached approximately 3.0 million broadband subscribers at June 30, 2011 compared to approximately 2.9 million at June 30, 2010. In order to remain competitive, we believe the ability to continually increase connection speeds is important. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which we launched to meet customer demand for higher broadband speeds. FTTN is a type of telecommunications network that combines fiber-optic cables (which run from a telecommunication providers central office to a single location within a particular neighborhood or geographic area) and traditional copper wires (which run from this location to individual residences and businesses within the neighborhood or geographic area). Fiber to the node allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network made up of only copper wires. In addition to the FTTN deployment, we continue to expand our product offerings and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a competitive and maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers already have broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and grow our broadband subscribers. Demand for the private line services we offer to business and wholesale customers continues to increase, despite our customers optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our business, we ultimately believe the growth in fiber based special access provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper based special access provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet, although the timing of this technological migration is uncertain. Legacy services. Revenues from our legacy services represented 48% and 53% of our total revenues for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011 and the predecessor three months ended June 30, 2010, respectively, and 48% and 52% of our total revenues for the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and the predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively, and continue to decline. Our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice services for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has increased the number and type of competitors within our industry 30 Table of Contents and has decreased our market share. We expect that these factors will continue to impact our business. Service bundling and other product promotions, as described below, continue to be some of our responses to offset the loss of revenues as a result of access line losses. Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this revenue stream tends to be more sensitive than revenues from our other services to changes in the economy and to changes in spending trends of our federal government customers. We currently expect revenue and costs for the remainder of 2011 to be lower than they were during the comparable period of 2010. Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers, primarily consumers and small businesses, the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While video and wireless subscribers are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not make a large contribution to strategic services revenues. However, we believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer limited time promotions on our broadband service for qualifying customers who have our broadband product in their bundle, which we believe will positively affect our acquisition volume and drive customers to purchase more expanded offerings. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual products, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload, productivity improvements, changes in the telecommunications industry and governmental regulations. Through planned reductions and normal employee attrition, we have reduced our workforce and employee-related expenses (net of severance) while achieving operational efficiencies and improving processes through automation and other innovative ways of operating our business. Pension and post-retirement benefits expenses. We are required to recognize in our consolidated financial statements certain expenses relating to our pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans. These expenses are calculated based on several assumptions, including among other things discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are generally set at December 31 of each year. Changes in these assumptions can cause significant changes in the combined net periodic benefits expenses we recognize. We allocate the expenses of these plans to certain of our other affiliates. The allocation of expenses is based upon the demographics of employees and retirees at our affiliates. Changes in our assumptions can cause significant changes in the net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recognize. Disciplined capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband and fiber to the cell site, or FTTCS. FTTCS is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a telecommunication providers broadband interconnection points to cellular sites. Fiber to the cell site services allow for the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network. While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, additional events and trends discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. 31 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 Compared to Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended June 30, 2010, combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010 and the number of employees as of June 30, 2011, successor and June 30, 2010, predecessor: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended June 30, 2011 Three months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Six months ended June 30, 2011 Six months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Operating revenues by category: Strategic and legacy services: Strategic services $ 1,206 1,149 57 5 % $ 2,407 2,287 120 5 % Legacy services 1,317 1,499 (182 ) (12 )% 2,712 3,056 (344 ) (11 )% Total strategic and legacy services 2,523 2,648 (125 ) (5 )% 5,119 5,343 (224 ) (4 )% Data integration 118 142 (24 ) (17 )% 241 278 (37 ) (13 )% Total revenues 2,641 2,790 (149 ) (5 )% 5,360 5,621 (261 ) (5 )% Affiliate revenues 6 6 nm 6 6 nm Other revenues (primarily USF surcharges) 122 140 (18 ) (13 )% 249 275 (26 ) (9 )% Total operating revenues 2,769 2,930 (161 ) (5 )% 5,615 5,896 (281 ) (5 )% Operating expenses 2,652 2,421 231 10 % 4,919 4,819 100 2 % Operating income 117 509 (392 ) (77 )% 696 1,077 (381 ) (35 )% Other expense 151 243 (92 ) (38 )% 373 564 (191 ) (34 )% Income before income taxes (34 ) 266 (300 ) (113 )% 323 513 (190 ) (37 )% Income tax (benefit) expense (8 ) 108 (116 ) (107 )% 138 317 (179 ) (56 )% Net (loss) income $ (26 ) 158 (184 ) (116 )% $ 185 196 (11 ) (6 )% Employees (as of June 30) 27,589 29,221 (1,632 ) (6 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. During the second quarter of 2011, we updated our methodology for counting our subscribers and access lines where we provide the services. We now count access lines when we install the service, which resulted in an approximately 69,000 decrease in our successor June 30, 2011 access lines versus what we would have shown under our historical methodology of counting access lines when revenue was generated from them. We have not retrospectively adjusted our predecessor period access lines for this methodology adjustment as it was not reasonably practicable for us to do so. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our new methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand alone broadband subscribers. We have conformed prior periods to our current presentation, unless noted above. 32 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our total broadband subscribers and access lines as of June 30, 2011, successor and June 30, 2010, predecessor: Successor Predecessor June 30, 2011 June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (in thousands) Total broadband subscribers 3,009 2,894 115 4 % Total access lines 8,804 9,574 (770 ) (8 )% Operating Revenues Strategic Services Although strategic services revenues increased, a decrease in legacy services resulted in lower total operating revenues. Strategic services revenues increased primarily due to higher broadband revenues resulting from new subscribers as well as an increase in MPLS. An improving mix of higher priced, higher speed broadband services and increased volumes in our private line services also contributed to the increase in strategic revenues. Legacy Services Legacy services revenues decreased as a result of lower local services revenues due to access line losses resulting from competitive pressures, along with product substitution. Legacy services also decreased due to lower amortization of deferred revenue due to certain predecessor deferred revenue being assigned no value at the acquisition date. Lower demand for our long-distance services, traditional WAN services and access services, due to customer migration, product substitution and increased competition also contributed to the decrease in our legacy services revenues. Data Integration Revenues from data integration decreased primarily due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Operating Expenses The following table provides further detail regarding our total operating expenses for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended June 30, 2010, combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended June 30, 2011 Three months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Six months ended June 30, 2011 Six months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,141 1,240 (99 ) (8 )% 2,319 2,487 (168 ) (7 )% Selling, general and administrative 656 633 23 4 % 1,212 1,239 (27 ) (2 )% Affiliate expenses 32 32 nm 32 32 nm Depreciation and amortization 823 548 275 50 % 1,356 1,093 263 24 % Total operating expenses $ 2,652 2,421 231 10 % 4,919 4,819 100 2 % 33 Table of Contents Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products decreased due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Lower facilities expenses as a result of both lower rates and lower volumes for long-distance service and cost optimization also contributed to the lower expenses in cost of services and products. The amortization of certain deferred expenses is lower due to assigning no value to these predecessor assets at the acquisition date. Cost of services and products also decreased due to lower salaries and wages related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011 primarily due to severance related to employee reductions, a majority of which was due to CenturyLinks acquisition of us. This increase was partially offset by lower professional fees and pension expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 primarily due to decreased professional fees, pension expense and marketing and advertising expense. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in severance related to employee reductions, a majority of which was due to CenturyLinks acquisition of us. Affiliate Expenses Affiliates expenses include charges for our use of telecommunication services, marketing and employee related support services. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended June 30, 2010, combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended June 30, 2011 Three months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Six months ended June 30, 2011 Six months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Depreciation $ 403 493 (90 ) (18 )% 878 984 (106 ) (11 )% Amortization 420 55 365 nm 478 109 369 nm Total depreciation and amortization $ 823 548 275 50 % 1,356 1,093 263 24 % nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. In the second quarter of 2011, our property, plant and equipment was revalued and as a result decreased $2.140 billion due to CenturyLinks acquisition of us. The decrease in asset value resulted in our depreciation expense declining significantly. This revaluation also resulted in an additional $7.625 billion in amortizable intangible customer relationship assets, which resulted in an additional $260 million of amortization expense for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011. In addition, capitalized software was revalued to $1.702 billion, an increase of $815 million, resulting in amortization expense of $117 million for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the $58 million for the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011. We expect depreciation and amortization expense in the remaining periods of 2011 and future years to be impacted by this revaluation, which remains subject to further adjustment. 34 Table of Contents Other Consolidated Results The following table provides detail regarding other (expense) income, net and income tax expense for the successor three months ended June 30, 2011, predecessor three months ended June 30, 2010, combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010: Successor Predecessor Combined Predecessor Three months ended June 30, 2011 Three months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change Six months ended June 30, 2011 Six months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) % Change (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (150 ) (265 ) (115 ) (43 )% (377 ) (544 ) (167 ) (31 )% Loss on early retirement of debt (1 ) 1 nm (1 ) (42 ) (41 ) (98 )% Other income, net 22 22 nm 5 22 (17 ) (77 )% Total other (expense) income, net $ (151 ) (243 ) (92 ) (38 )% (373 ) (564 ) (191 ) (34 )% Income tax expense $ (8 ) 108 (116 ) (107 )% 138 317 (179 ) (56 )% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of the net premium associated with our long-term debt which resulted from the revaluation of this debt caused by CenturyLinks acquisition of us. In the first quarter of 2010, we redeemed $525 million aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes due 2011, resulting in an immaterial loss, and completed cash tender offers for the purchase of certain of our outstanding debt securities. We received and accepted tenders of approximately $960 million aggregate principal amount of notes for $997 million, resulting in an aggregate loss of $40 million. Income Tax Expense Included in income tax expense for the first quarter of 2010 is a $113 million charge related to the change in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D subsidy as a result of the comprehensive health care reform legislation enacted in March 2010. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES On April 1, 2011 we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. As such, factors relating to, or affecting, CenturyLinks liquidity and capital resources could have material impacts on us, including impacts on our credit ratings, our access to capital markets and changes in the financial markets perception of us. In addition, we believe that any future liquidity needs not met through our cash on hand and net cash provided by operating activities will be met by CenturyLink. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries that include lines of credit, affiliate obligations, capital contributions and dividends. As part of these cash management arrangements, affiliates provide lines of credit to certain other affiliates. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit and intercompany obligations vary from time to time and are classified as short-term debt. Under these arrangements, the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink in return for a receivable. From time to time we may continue to declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink, which would reduce the amount of this receivable. Given our upgrade to an investment grade rating on April 1, 2011, our debt covenants do not limit the amount of dividends we can pay to CenturyLink. 35 Table of Contents At June 30, 2011, we held cash and cash equivalents of $47 million and CenturyLink had an additional $2.499 billion in cash and cash equivalents which was unusually high due to the cash necessary to close their July acquisition of Savvis. In January 2011, CenturyLink entered into a new four-year revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) that allows CenturyLink to borrow up to $1.700 billion for the general corporate purposes of itself and its subsidiaries. Interest is assessed on borrowings using the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable margin between 0.5% and 2.5% per annum depending on the type of loan and CenturyLinks senior unsecured long-term debt rating. QCII and QSC are guarantors of the Credit Facility. CenturyLink also maintains letter of credit arrangements with various financial institutions to which we have access. As of June 30, 2011 CenturyLink had $429 million available for future use under these letter of credit arrangements During the 12 months ended June 30, 2011, our net cash generated by operating activities totaled $3.203 billion. For the coming 12 months, our expected financing and investing cash needs include: $1.500 billion of maturing debt; capital expenditures of approximately $850 million in the remaining six months of 2011; and capital expenditures of an as yet undetermined amount in the first six months of 2012. We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. If we are not successful in maintaining or increasing our net cash generated by operating activities in the near term, we may decrease our capital expenditures, which may impact future years operating results and cash flows. Our ultimate spending for capital expenditures will be determined in part by the strategic initiatives of our new parent company, CenturyLink. At June 30, 2011, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $1.748 billion compared to $2.810 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our working capital deficit decreased $1.062 billion primarily due to earnings before depreciation, amortization and income taxes and net proceeds from our long term debt issuances, partially offset by capital expenditures. We continue to look for opportunities to improve our capital structure by reducing debt and interest expense. Any time we deem conditions favorable, we may attempt to improve our liquidity position by causing our subsidiary, Qwest Corporation, to access debt markets in a manner designed to create positive economic value. The unstable economy may impair our ability to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited or at terms that are acceptable to us. As of June 30, 2011, we had paid certain costs that were associated with the CenturyLink acquisition. These costs include financial advisory fees and compensation costs comprised of retention bonuses and severance. The final amounts and timing of the compensation costs to be paid is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that continue to be made as part of the continuing integration. These amounts may be material. We believe that our current cash position, cash expected to be provided by our operations, additional cash expected to be available to us from CenturyLink including borrowings under the Credit Facility, and the likelihood that we will continue to have access to capital markets to refinance our debt as it matures, should allow us to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. Our general expectation is to refinance the debt maturities of one of our subsidiaries, Qwest Corporation (QC). We have a significant amount of debt maturing in the next several years, including $1.500 billion maturing in 2012, $750 million maturing in 2013 and $1.900 billion maturing in 2014. 36 Table of Contents The Credit Facility has 21 lenders, with commitments ranging from $2.5 million to $135 million, and expires in January 2015. This facility has a cross payment default provision, and this facility and certain of our debt issues also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Upon a cross default, the creditors of a material amount of the debt may elect to declare that a default has occurred under their debt instruments and to accelerate the principal amounts due to those creditors. Cross acceleration provisions are similar to cross default provisions, but permit a default in a second debt instrument to be declared only if, in addition to a default occurring under the first debt instrument, the indebtedness due under the first debt instrument is actually accelerated. To the extent that our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA (as defined in our debt covenants), is reduced by cash settlements or judgments relating to the matters discussed in Note 10Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report, our debt to consolidated EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements will be adversely affected. This could reduce our financing flexibility due to potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) if: revenues and cash provided by operations significantly decline; unstable economic conditions continue to persist; competitive pressures increase; we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plans; or we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Note 10Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust. This pension plan is generally measured annually at December 31. However, due to CenturyLinks acquisition of us we remeasured the pension plan at April 1, 2011. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $448 million at April 1, 2011. Cash funding requirements can be significantly impacted by earnings on investments, the discount rate, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. As a result, it is difficult to determine future funding requirements with a high level of precision; however, in general, current funding laws require a company with a plan shortfall to fund the annual cost of benefits earned in addition to a seven-year amortization of the shortfall. Based on current funding laws and regulations, we will not be required to make a cash contribution in 2011. During 2012 we expect to begin making required contributions to the plan and we estimate that these 2012 contributions could be between $300 million and $350 million. Although potentially significant in the aggregate, we currently expect that contributions in 2013 and beyond will decrease annually from the 2012 expected contribution amount. However, the actual amount of required contributions in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. As of April 1, 2011, the unfunded status of all of our post-retirement benefit plans was $2.516 billion. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of retirees who are former occupational (also referred to as union) employees. As of April 1, 2011, the fair value of the trust assets was $768 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately five years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This five year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on 37 Table of Contents returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimate of the annual long-term rate of return on the plan assets is 7.5% based on the currently held assets; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. Effective after CenturyLinks acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. CenturyLink is in the process of developing a post-acquisition intercompany agreement for allocation of consolidated income tax liabilities. We will continue to account for income tax expense on a stand-alone basis. We are also included in certain combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same accounting will apply. In recent years we made some payments for income taxes; however, in most jurisdictions where we were subject to income tax, those taxes were largely offset through the utilization of our significant net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs. As of June 30, 2011, we had federal NOLs of $5.670 billion. The CenturyLink acquisition caused an Ownership Change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, our ability to use these NOLs is subject to annual limits imposed by Section 382. Despite this, we expect to fully use all of these NOLs as an offset against future taxable income of the CenturyLink combined group. We do not expect to pay a significant amount of income taxes until all of these NOLs have been used; however, the timing of that use will depend upon the combined groups future earnings and future tax circumstances. We currently expect to be able to use the NOLs to reduce tax payments and the application of annual Section 382 limits has not materially altered the expected timing of our NOL usage. Once our NOLs are fully utilized, we expect to make income tax payments commensurate with our taxable income. The amounts of those payments will also depend upon future earnings and upon our future tax circumstances and cannot be precisely estimated at this time. The following table summarizes cash flow activities for the combined six months ended June 30, 2011 and predecessor six months ended June 30, 2010: Combined Predecessor Six months ended June 30, 2011 Six months ended June 30, 2010 Increase/ (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,477 1,641 (164 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,264 ) (1,379 ) (115 ) Net cash used in financing activities (538 ) (1,550 ) (1,012 ) Cash provided by operating activities decreased during the period as a result of a decline in cash received from customers due to decreased revenues. Cash used in investing activities decreased primarily due to no purchases of investment securities in the six months ended June 30, 2011 compared to the purchases of $821 million of investment securities in the six months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease in cash used in investing activities was partially offset by an increase in short-term affiliate loans resulting from the majority of our cash balance being transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink in return for a receivable as well as there being no proceeds from sales or maturities of investment securities during the current year. Cash used in financing activities decreased primarily due to approximately $1 billion less payments of debt for the six months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the same period ended June 30, 2010. You can find additional information regarding our financing activities in Note 4Long-term Debt to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. We were in compliance with all provisions and covenants of our debt agreements as of June 30, 2011. Going forward, we, in consultation with CenturyLink, may declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink in excess of our earnings to the extent permitted by applicable law. Given our upgrade to investment grade on April 1, 2011, our debt covenants do not limit the amount of dividends we can pay to CenturyLink. 38 Table of Contents From time to time we expect to issue debt securities through our QC subsidiary to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned QC by the three major credit rating agencies, among other factors. We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in interest rates. The objective of our interest rate risk management program is to manage the level and volatility of our interest expense. We have historically used derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk exposure on our debt and we may employ them in the future. There were no material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the six months ended June 30, 2011, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support, and we do not engage in hedging, research and development services, or other relationships that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements. There were no substantial changes to our off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual commitments in the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our website address is www.qwest.com , and CenturyLinks website is www.centurylink.com . CenturyLink and we routinely post important investor information in the Investor Relations section of CenturyLinks website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, these websites is not part of this report. In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including those arising out of the FCCs proposed rules regarding intercarrier compensation and the USF and the FCCs related Notice of Proposed Rulemaking released on February 8, 2011); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by CenturyLinks recent acquisitions of Savvis, us and Embarq; CenturyLinks ability to successfully integrate the operations of Savvis, Qwest and Embarq into its operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; CenturyLinks and our ability to use NOLs in projected amounts; the effects of changes in CenturyLinks assignment of the Qwest or Savvis purchase price after the date hereof; CenturyLinks ability to effectively manage its expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal proceedings involving CenturyLink and us; CenturyLinks ability to pay a $2.90 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by changes in its and our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this report (including in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in 39 Table of Contents general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason. 40 Table of Contents Item 3. Qwest Communications International Inc.