ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION This current report contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may", "should", "intends", "expects", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "predicts", "potential", or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity or performance to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity or performance expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity or performance. You should not place undue reliance on these statements, which speak only as of the date that they were made. These cautionary statements should be considered with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we may issue in the future. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results, later events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and the notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Report and the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission included in our Form S-1/A on April 21, 2017, along with the accompanying notes. As used in this quarterly report, the terms "we", "us", "our", and the "Company" means BioLabMart Inc. prior to August 8, 2017 and Qrons Inc. since August 8, 2017. Overview The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Wyoming on August 22, 2016 as BioLabMart Inc. and changed its name to Qrons Inc. on August 8, 2017. The Company is a startup preclinical stage biotechnology company engaged in developing solutions to combat neuro-degenerative diseases and neuronal injuries. The Company is working to develop a novel stem cell system to repair and regenerate neuronal damage. The system incorporates what we believe to be unique stem cell treatments, cell modifications and a novel delivery system. Our preliminary focus is on Traumatic Brain Injury, although we believe such solutions may be effective in dealing with Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's. The Company raised an aggregate of $281,000 between November 2, 2016 and January 27, 2017 from 37 accredited investors in a private placement offering under Regulation D. The Company has not yet hired any permanent staff and presently relies heavily on its two co-founders, Jonah Meer and Ido Merfeld, who are its sole officers and directors to manage its day to day business. We currently outsource all professional services to third parties in an effort to maintain lower operational costs. Messrs. Meer and Merfeld as the holders of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of the Company's Class A Preferred Stock collectively have 66 2/3% of the voting rights of the Company. Acting together, they will be able to influence the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our stockholders. On December 14, 2016, the Company entered into a license and research funding agreement ("License Agreement") with Ariel University R&D Co., Ltd., ("Ariel"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Ariel University of Samaria, based in Ariel, Israel ("AU"). Under the terms of the License Agreement, the Company paid Ariel $100,000 to fund and further research for 12 months (with an option to extend such research financing and research period) by Professor Danny Baranes, the principal investigator and his research team relating to cell treatment with conditioned medium for neuronal tissue regeneration and repair. In consideration therefor and for other payments under the License Agreement, the Company received an exclusive worldwide royalty- bearing license in Ariel patents and know-how to develop and commercialize products based on or incorporating conditioned medium for neuronal tissue regeneration and/or repair, resulting from Ariel's research or technology or the Company's research funding (the "Products"). Under the License Agreement, the Company is required to use its best efforts to develop and commercialize the Products in accordance with development milestones set forth in the Agreement. The License Agreement provides that the Company make royalty payments of 4% of net sales (which may be increased if any patent is challenged by the Company or its affiliates or decreased if there is a valid patent claim) within 30 days of each calendar quarter for the later of (i) 15 years from the date of the first sale in a country and (ii) until the last to expire of Ariel's patents in a country. The Company may provide a sublicense for cash in a bonafide arm's length transaction. The Company agreed to pay Ariel 15% of any consideration received by the Company in connection with any such sublicense (except royalties on net sales) within 30 days of receipt. The Company is also required to make milestone payments of (i) $130,000 upon the successful completion of clinical FDA Phase II trials and (ii) $390,000 upon the successful completion of clinical FDA Phase III trials, within 6 months of completion. Any late payments under the License Agreement will bear interest at 3% plus LIBOR. Upon the earliest occurrence of the Company's (or any affiliates of the Company): (i) underwritten public offering with proceeds of at least $25 million, (ii) consolidation, merger or reorganization, or (iii) sale of all or substantially all of its shares or assets, the Company is obligated to issue to Ariel an immediately exercisable warrant for that number of shares equal to 4% of (a) the issued and outstanding shares of the Company at the time of issuance. The License Agreement provides that the Company is obligated, at its expense, to register shares exercised pursuant to the warrant by Ariel within 6 months of a request by Ariel by either "piggyback" or a demand registration. 12 Patent expenses incurred by Ariel under the License Agreement will be reimbursed by the Company. Any infringement action instituted by a party to the License Agreement that results in a recovery in excess of such party's expenses will belong 85% to the party bringing such action and 15% to the other party. Under the License Agreement, at the Company's discretion, Ariel will transfer its technology to the Company upon the earliest to occur of (i) a successful Phase II FDA trial of a product developed under the Agreement; (ii) the acquisition of the Company by a third party of at least 45% of the share capital of the Company in a bonafide transaction valued at least at $100 million and the assumption of the License Agreement by such third party, or (iii) Ariel's written consent. The License Agreement provides that each of the Company and Ariel are required to keep the other party's proprietary information confidential for the longer of (i) the term of the License Agreement and seven years from the date of disclosure. The License Agreement shall continue in effect until all of the Company's payment obligations under the Agreement have been made. After the expiration of the License Agreement, the Company will have a non-exclusive worldwide license to the Ariel technology. The Company can terminate the License Agreement for any reason upon 60 days prior written notice in which event Ariel will be required to reimburse the Company for any unused research funds. The License Agreement will terminate upon a material breach of either party that is not cured in 30 days from notice thereof, or by bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or the discontinuance of business. Ariel may immediately terminate the License Agreement upon a challenge to its patent validity by the Company or an affiliate of the Company. Without Ariel's prior written consent, the Company may not assign the License Agreement except to an affiliate or to a successor entity in a merger or acquisition provided the assignee assumes the License Agreement obligations. The Company's common stock was approved by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") for quotation on the OTC pink sheets under the symbol "BLMB" as of July 3, 2017. FINRA announced the Company's name change to Qrons Inc. on its Daily List on August 9, 2017. The new name and symbol change to "QRON" for the OTC market became effective on August 10, 2017. Plan of Operations To date, we have not yet developed any candidate for product development nor generated any revenue from the sales of products or services. In the next 12 months, our research team plans to focus on integrating the biological, chemical and mechanical challenges of treating traumatic brain injury to enable the development of what we believe to be our novel stem cell delivery system, via an implantable product. We also plan to further develop our proprietary, neuro-regenerative mesenchymal stem cell lines as it relates to our product candidate. On January 9, 2017, Ariel filed a US provisional patent application related to our neural cell development research. A U.S. provisional patent application provides the means to establish an early effective filing date for a later filed non-provisional patent application. It does not mature into an issued patent unless the applicant files a regular non-provisional patent application within one year. Subject to positive efficacy findings, we currently intend to file for a non-provisional application within one year of the filing of the provisional application. As our research progresses if and when we achieve functional supporting results, we or Ariel intend to file for additional patents. Under the License Agreement Ariel shall be responsible for the preparation, filing, prosecution and protection of the patents. Such preparation shall be done in consultation with the Company, provided expenses in excess of $1,000 will require Company pre-approval. The Company shall reimburse Ariel for all documented patent-related expenses. We currently estimate the cost of such patent preparation and filing to be approximately $7,000 which we intend to fund with the Company's operating capital. We will continue exploring sources of additional funding, including available grants that we have preliminarily identified as well as other available avenues of debt and equity financings. There is substantial doubt that we can continue as an on-going business after the next twelve months unless we obtain additional capital to pay our expenditures. We do not currently have sufficient resources to accomplish all of the conditions necessary for us to generate revenue. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 Revenue We have not generated any revenue since our inception and do not expect to generate any revenue from the sale of products in the near future. 13 Net Loss Our net (loss) for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 is as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 Operating expenses: Research and development expenses 938 1,714 Professional fees 3,127 3,127 General and administrative expenses 15,304 15,609 Total operating expenses 19,369 20,450 Income (loss) from operations (19,369 ) (20,450 ) Interest expense (2,730 ) (5,430 ) Net (loss) (22,099 ) (25,880 ) During the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, the Company incurred $938 and $1,714, respectively, as research and development expenses as a result of certain purchases of expendable lab supplies and equipment. We incurred general and administrative expenses of $15,304 and $15,609 respectively for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2017 which was comprised of rent, office supplies and bank service charges. Such general and administrative expenses during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 also included branding costs of $8,750 and costs related to shareholder expenses of $4,000. The Company expects to incur increasing operating expenses as we continue to pursue our business plan during the current fiscal year. We recorded a net loss from operations of $19,369 in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and a net loss of $22,099 after interest expense of $2,730, which includes accretion of our convertible note. In the six months ended June 30, 2017 we recorded a net loss from operations of $20,450, and a net loss of $25,880 after interest expense of $5,430, which includes accretion of our convertible note. Liquidity and Financial Condition We currently have limited working capital and liquid assets. Our current assets as of June 30, 2017 were $145,076 including $141,076 of cash and cash equivalents and $4,000 in prepaid expenses. We are in the early stage of development and have no revenues There are a number of conditions that we must satisfy before we will be able to commercialize our potential product and generate revenue, including successful development of a product candidate, which includes clinical trials, FDA approval, demonstration of effectiveness sufficient to generate commercial orders by customers, establishing production capabilities as well as effective marketing and sales capabilities for our product. We do not currently have sufficient resources to accomplish any of these conditions necessary for us to generate revenue. We will require substantial additional funds in order to fund our business objectives. We will have to continue to rely on equity and debt financing. There can be no assurance that financing, whether debt or equity, will always be available to us in the amount required at any particular time or for any particular period or, if available, that it can be obtained on terms favorable to us. Without additional financing, we do not believe our resources will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs beyond the fourth quarter of 2017. Working Capital At June 30, 2017 At December 31, 2016 Current Assets 145,076 155,242 Current Liabilities 10,132 3,870 Working Capital 134,944 151,372 14 Cash Flows At June 30, 2017 Net cash (used in) operating activities $ (23,618 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 9,452 Net (decrease) in cash during period $ (14,166 ) Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $23,618 for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017. Cash used in operating activities is predominantly the result of our net loss, offset by accretion expense of $5,028, prepaid expenses of $4,000 and an increase to accounts payable of $1,234 in the six-month period ended June 30, 2017. Investing Activities There were no investing activities during the six-month period ended June 30. 2017. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $9,452 for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017. The Company received proceeds from private placements totaling $32,000 offset by offering costs of $22,548 in in the period. Going Concern Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and, accordingly, does not include adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in operation. Our report from our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 includes an explanatory paragraph stating the Company has negative working capital and has not generated revenues to cover operating expenses. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We will require additional working capital to fund our business objectives. There can be no assurance that any additional financing will be available or accessible on reasonable terms, either by way of an equity financing or debt. If we cannot raise any additional funding we may either have to suspend operations until we do raise the cash, or cease operations entirely. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments which are based on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of their evaluation form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and circumstances. Our significant accounting policies are more fully discussed in the Notes to our Financial Statements. Refer to Note 2 of the Unaudited Financial Statements included herein. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There were various accounting standards and interpretations issued recently, none of which are expected to have a material effect on the Company's operations, financial position or cash flows. 15