Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. 3 Table of Contents Financial and Operational Highlights The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations. Operating revenues $ 11,356 8,327 2,846 11,730 Operating expenses 10,078 7,784 2,267 9,729 Operating income $ 1,278 543 579 2,001 Net income (loss) $ 308 19 211 (55 ) Balance sheet data: Total assets $ 29,246 31,155 Total long-term debt (1) 9,628 12,296 Total stockholder's equity 10,624 11,276 (1) Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. The following table summarizes certain of our operational metrics: Operational metrics: Total broadband subscribers (2) 3,318 3,185 3,060 Total access lines (3) 8,055 8,533 9,193 (1) In the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting our broadband subscribers and reclassified prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For additional information see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverview" in Item 7 of this report. (2) Broadband subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables. (3) Access lines are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. Operations We group our products and services among four major categories: strategic services, legacy services, data integration and affiliates and other services. See descriptions of these categories below in 4 Table of Contents the section "Products and Services". The following table provides a summary of our operating revenues by category: Strategic services $ 4,978 3,615 1,200 4,637 Legacy services 4,848 3,901 1,400 5,974 Data integration 549 402 123 606 Affiliates and other services 981 409 123 513 Total operating revenues $ 11,356 8,327 2,846 11,730 Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States and substantially all of our revenues are from customers located in the United States. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, our operations have been integrated into and reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLink's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Consequently, we do not provide our discrete financial information to the CODM on a regular basis. As such, we now have one reportable segment and we have reclassified our predecessor period results to conform to our current view. Products and Services Our products and services include a variety of voice, broadband, data, information technology ("IT"), video and other communications services. We offer our customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. For example, we offer integrated and unlimited local and long-distance services. Our customers can also bundle two or more services, such as broadband, video (including DIRECTV through our strategic partnership), voice and Verizon Wireless (through our strategic partnership) services. We believe our customers value the convenience of and price discounts associated with receiving multiple services through a single company. Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our network serves approximately 8.1 million access lines in 14 states and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. Described below are our key products and services. Strategic Services Our customers use our strategic services to access the Internet, connect to private networks and transmit data. We also provide value-added services and integrated solutions that make communications more secure, reliable and efficient for our customers. We focus our marketing and sales efforts on these services: Private line. Private line (including special access) is a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites. We also provide private line transmission services to wireless service providers that use our 5 Table of Contents fiber-optic cables connected to their towers, commonly referred to as fiber to the tower or wireless backhaul services, to support their next generation wireless networks; Broadband. Our broadband services allow customers to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at high speeds. Substantially all of our broadband subscribers are located within our local service area; MPLS. Multi-Protocol Label Switching, or MPLS, is standards-approved data networking technology, compatible with existing asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay networks we provide to support real-time voice and video. This technology allows network operators flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks; Managed Hosting. Managed hosting includes provision of centralized IT infrastructure and a variety of managed services including cloud and traditional computing, application management, back-up, storage, and advanced services including planning, design, implementation and support services; Colocation. Colocation services enable our customers to install their own IT equipment in our state-of-the art facilities through our centralized IT infrastructure; Ethernet. Ethernet services include point-to-point and multi-point configurations that facilitate data transmissions across metropolitan areas and wide area networks; Video. Our video services include primarily satellite digital television under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name; VoIP. Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN; and Wireless services. Our wireless services are offered under CenturyLink's agency arrangement with Verizon Wireless that allows us, as a subsidiary of CenturyLink, to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name, primarily to customers who buy these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other products and services. CenturyLink's arrangement allows us to sell the full complement of Verizon Wireless services. CenturyLink's current five-year arrangement with Verizon Wireless runs through 2015 and is terminable by either party thereafter. Legacy Services Our legacy services represent our traditional voice, data and network services, which include the following: Local. We offer local calling services for our regional markets customers within our local service area, generally for a fixed monthly charge. These services include a number of enhanced calling features and other services, such as call forwarding, caller identification, conference calling, voicemail, selective call ringing and call waiting, for which we generally charge an additional monthly fee. We also generate revenues from non-recurring services, such as inside wire installation, maintenance services, service activation and reactivation. For our wholesale customers, local calling services include primarily resale and unbundled network elements ("UNEs"), which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers. Local calling services also include network transport, billing services and access to our network by other telecommunications providers and wireless carriers. Local calling services 6 Table of Contents provided to our wholesale customers allow other telecommunications companies the ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services on our network; Long-distance. We offer our residential and business customers domestic and international long-distance services and toll free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that either terminate or originate with our customers in the United States; ISDN. We offer integrated services digital network ("ISDN") services, which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications; WAN. We offer wide area network ("WAN") services, which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations; and Switched access services. We provide various forms of switched access services to wireline and wireless service providers for the use of our facilities to originate and terminate their interstate and intrastate voice transmissions. Data Integration Data integration involves our sale of telecommunications equipment to customers for use on their premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic networks for our governmental and other business customers. Affiliates and Other Services We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates: computer system development and support services, network support and technical services. We also generate other operating revenues from Universal Service Fund ("USF") revenues and surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. The majority of our real estate properties are located in our local service area. Patents, Trade Names, Trademarks and Copyrights Either directly or through our affiliates, we have rights in various patents, trade names, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property necessary to conduct our business. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our intellectual property to others. Sales and Marketing We maintain local offices in most of the larger population centers within our local service area. These offices provide sales and customer support services in the community. We also rely on our call center personnel to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. Our strategy is to enhance our communications services by offering a comprehensive bundle of services and deploying new technologies to further enhance customer loyalty. We conduct most of our operations under the brand name "CenturyLink." Our satellite television service is offered on a co-branded basis under the "DIRECTV" name. The wireless service that we offer under our agency agreement with Verizon Wireless is marketed under the "Verizon Wireless" brand name. Our approach to our residential customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. We market our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, local retail stores, telemarketing and third parties. We support our 7 Table of Contents distribution with direct mail, bill inserts, newspaper advertising, website promotions, public relations activities and sponsorship of community events and sports venues. Our approach to our business and government customers includes a commitment to deliver communications products and services that meet existing and future business needs through bundles of services and integrated service offerings. Our focus is to be a comprehensive communications solution for our small office, mid-sized and select enterprise business and government customers. Our approach to our wholesale customers includes a commitment to deliver communications solutions that meet existing and future needs of national network telecommunications providers through bandwidth growth and quality of services. Our data hosting operations utilize a solution-based selling approach. By working directly with potential and existing clients, we are able to understand our clients' IT infrastructure and long-term goals. We also market through indirect channels, including collaborations with existing clients and technology providers, telecommunications companies and system integrators. Network Architecture Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our local exchange carrier networks also include central offices and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches and operating with licensed software. Our fiber-optic cable is the primary transport technology between our central offices and interconnection points with other incumbent carriers. As of December 31, 2012, we maintained over 431 thousand miles of copper plant and approximately 73 thousand miles of fiber optic plant in our local exchange networks. We also maintain separate networks in connection with providing fiber transport and CLEC services. Most of our long-distance services are provided through reselling arrangements with other long-distance carriers, with the balance being provided directly through CenturyLink's own switches and network equipment. All of our satellite television and wireless voice service is provided by other carriers under agency agreements. We continue to enhance and expand our network by deploying broadband-enabled technologies to provide additional capacity to our customers. Rapid and significant changes in technology are expected to continue in the telecommunications industry. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in customer demands and technology. In particular, we anticipate that continued increases in broadband usage by our customers will require us to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity or to implement network management practices to alleviate network capacity shortages, either of which could adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. For additional information, see "Risk Factors", generally, in Item 1A of this report, and, in particular, "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our BusinessIncreases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers." For more information, see Item 2 of this report. Regulation In this section, we describe potentially significant regulatory changes that primarily impact QCII's major subsidiary, Qwest Corporation, an incumbent local exchange carrier ("ILEC"). Accordingly, references in this section to "we," "us", the "Company" and "our" generally refer to Qwest Corporation. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications in our local service area. These agencies issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition; they set the rates that telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic; and they have established USF to support the provision of services to high-cost areas. In most states, local voice service, switched and special access services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. In addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with the utility commissions of most of the states in our local service area. Laws and regulations in many states restrict the manner in which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities and many mergers and acquisitions require approval by the FCC and some state commissions. Historically, ILECs operated as regulated monopolies having the exclusive right and responsibility to provide local telephone services in their franchised service territories. As we discuss in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, coupled with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological change, fundamentally altered the telephone industry by generally reducing the regulation of ILECs and creating a substantial increase in the number of competitors. We are considered an ILEC. The following description discusses some of the major industry regulations that affect our traditional telephone operations, but numerous other regulations not discussed below could also impact us. Some legislation and regulations are currently the subject of judicial, legislative and administrative proceedings which could substantially change the manner in which the telecommunications industry operates and the amount of revenues we receive for our services. Neither the outcome of these proceedings, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time. For additional information, see Item 1A of this annual report below. State Regulation In recent years, most states have substantially reduced their regulation of ILECs. Nonetheless, state regulatory commissions generally continue to regulate local service rates, intrastate access charges, state universal service funds and in some cases service quality, as they continue to grant and revoke certifications authorizing companies to provide communications services. State commissions traditionally regulated pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focused on authorized levels of earnings by ILECs. Several states continue to regulate us in this manner. In most of our states, we are generally regulated under various forms of alternative regulation that typically limit our ability to increase rates for basic local voice service, but relieve us from the requirement to meet certain earnings tests. In a few states, we have recently gained pricing freedom for the majority of retail services except for the most basic of services, such as stand-alone basic residential voice service. In most of the states in which we operate, we have gained pricing flexibility for certain enhanced calling services, such as caller identification and for bundled services that also include local voice service. State commissions periodically conduct proceedings to review the rates that we charge other telecommunications providers for using our network or for reselling our service pursuant to the Telecommunications Act of 1996. We are currently responding to carrier complaints, legislation or generic investigations regarding our intrastate switched access charge rates in several of our states. In particular, certain long-distance providers have disputed existing intercarrier compensation rates payable to us and other ILECs with respect to VoIP traffic or refused to pay access charges, based on the contention that tariffed switched access charges should not apply to VoIP traffic. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted an order comprehensively reforming federal intercarrier compensation and universal service policies and rules, as discussed further below under the heading "Federal Regulation." Among other things, this order preempted state regulatory commissions' jurisdiction over all terminating access charges, including intrastate access charges that have historically been subject to exclusive state jurisdiction. Furthermore, 9 Table of Contents the FCC decreed that on a prospective basis, intercarrier compensation rates for VoIP traffic will be established at interstate access rates in the event intrastate switched access rates exceed interstate rates. The FCC order requires all terminating access rates including intrastate, interstate and reciprocal compensation rates to be reduced and unified over time. Excluding the rate implications contemplated on a prospective basis by the recent FCC order, we will continue to vigorously defend and seek to collect our intrastate switched access revenue subject to outstanding disputes. These historical disputes are primarily over access charge compensation for VoIP traffic terminating on the public switched telephone network. The outcomes of these disputes cannot be determined at this time. If we are required to reduce our intrastate switched access rates as a result of any of these disputes or state initiatives, we will seek to recover displaced switched access revenues from state universal service funds or other services. However, the amount of such recovery, particularly from residential customers, is not assured. Under state law, our telephone operating subsidiaries are typically governed by laws and regulations that (i) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (ii) prescribe certain reporting requirements, (iii) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (iv) limit ILECs' ability to borrow and pledge their assets (v) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates, and (vi) impose various other service standards. Unlike many of our competitors, as an ILEC we generally face "carrier of last resort" obligations which include an ongoing requirement to provide service to all prospective and current customers in our service area who request service and are willing to pay rates prescribed in our tariffs. In competitively-bid situations, such as newly-constructed housing developments or multi-tenant dwellings, this may constitute a competitive disadvantage to us if competitors can choose to focus on low-risk profitable customers and withhold service from high-risk unprofitable customers. In addition, strict adherence to carrier of last resort requirements may force us to construct facilities with a low likelihood of positive economic return. We operate in states where traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under evaluation or have been modified. There can be no assurance that these states will continue to provide for cost recovery at current levels. Federal Regulation We are required to comply with the Communications Act of 1934, which requires us to offer services at just and reasonable rates and on non-discriminatory terms, as well as the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act of 1934 primarily to promote competition. The FCC regulates interstate services provided by us, including the special access charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and the interstate access charges that we bill to long-distance companies and other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate voice and data transmissions. Additionally, the FCC regulates a number of aspects of our business related to privacy, homeland security and network infrastructure, including access to and use of local telephone numbers. The FCC has responsibility for maintaining and administering the federal USF, which provides substantial support for maintaining networks in high-cost areas, as well as supporting service to low-income households, schools and libraries, and rural health care providers. Like other communications network operators, ILECs must obtain FCC approval to use certain radio frequencies, or to transfer control of any such licenses. The FCC retains the right to revoke these licenses if a carrier materially violates relevant legal requirements. 10 Table of Contents We, like other large and mid-sized ILECs, operate under price-cap regulation of interstate access rates. Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on a company's interstate rates are adjusted periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes in certain non-controllable costs. In recent years, our operations and those of other telecommunications carriers have been further impacted by legislation and regulation imposing additional obligations on us, particularly with regards to providing broadband service, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts and enhancing privacy. These laws include the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, and laws governing local telephone number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. These laws and regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and could impact our ability to compete effectively. In December 2012, the FCC initiated a special access proceeding and has requested data, information and documents to allow it to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of competition in the special access market. The ultimate impact of this proceeding on the Company is currently unknown. However, if the FCC were to adopt significant changes in regulations affecting special access services, it could adversely impact our operations or financial results. Universal Service Fund and Other Related Matters For decades, the FCC has regularly considered various intercarrier compensation reforms, generally with a goal to create a uniform mechanism to be used by the entire telecommunications industry for payments between carriers originating, terminating, or carrying telecommunications traffic. In connection therewith, the FCC solicited public comments on a variety of topics related to access charges and intercarrier compensation. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "Recovery Act") includes certain broadband initiatives that are intended to accelerate broadband deployment across the United States. The Recovery Act approved $7.2 billion in funding for broadband stimulus projects across the United States to be administered by two governmental agencies. The programs provide grants and loans to applicants for construction of certain broadband infrastructure, provision of certain broadband services, and support of certain broadband adoption initiatives. This program has attracted a wide range of applicants including states, municipalities, start-up companies and consortiums. The participation of other parties in these programs has increased competition in selected areas, which may increase our marketing costs and decrease our revenues in those areas. This trend may intensify if program participation increases. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as terminating intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. We anticipate that these changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues in our wholesale business, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. On December 29, 2011, the CAF order went into effect. At the same time, numerous parties filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC seeking numerous revisions to the order. In January 2012, CenturyLink joined more than two dozen parties in challenging certain aspects of the order by filing a separate appeal that is expected to be heard by the United States Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals in late 2013. Future judicial challenges to the CAF order are possible, which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. Moreover, 11 Table of Contents rulemaking designed to implement the order is not complete, and several FCC proceedings relating to the order remain pending. For these and other reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings on us at this time. On January 31, 2012, the FCC adopted an order modernizing the program that provides assistance to qualifying low-income individuals for local voice service. These changes also affect state-specific programs that provide assistance to qualifying individuals. The impact of these changes on us and our low-income customers cannot be quantified at this time, but we may face increased administrative costs, additional audit requirements and potential customer disconnections as a result of this FCC order and its implementation. We received approximately $145 million, $142 million and $148 million of revenue from federal and state universal service programs for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, the combined year ended December 31, 2011 and the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010, respectively. Such amounts represented approximately 1.3% of each of the respective aforementioned periods' total operating revenues. Competition General We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market and we expect intense competition to continue. Technological advances, regulatory and legislative changes have increased opportunities for alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. As both consumers and business customers increasingly demand high-speed connections for entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect the demands on our network will continue to increase over the next several years. To succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver services that meet these increasing bandwidth requirements. We plan to continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this future demand. In addition, network reliability and security are increasingly important competitive factors in the enterprise business. Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us some advantages in providing local services in our local service area, as noted above we increasingly face significant competition as an increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable, wireless and electronic communications for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has led to an increase in the number and type of competitors within our industry and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater competition in providing local and long-distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves), social media hosts and broadband service providers, including cable companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies. Some of our competitors are subject to fewer regulations than we are which affords them competitive advantages against us. Under federal regulations, telecommunication providers are able to interconnect their networks with ours, resell our services or lease separate parts of our network in order to provide competitive services. Generally, we have been required to provide these functions and services at wholesale rates to our competitors, which allow our competitors to sell their services at lower prices. However, these rules have been and continue to be reviewed by state and federal regulators. In addition, wireless and broadband service providers generally are subject to fewer regulations, which may allow them to operate with lower costs than we are able to operate. For additional discussion of regulations affecting our business, see "Regulation" above. 12 Table of Contents As discussed below, competition for many of our services is based in part on bundled offerings. We believe our customers value the convenience of and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. As such, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. Strategic Services With respect to our strategic services, competition is based on price, bandwidth, service, promotions and bundled offerings. Wireless carriers' fourth generation, or 4G, services are allowing them to more directly compete with our strategic services. Private line and MPLS services also compete on network reach and reliability, while hosting, broadband and VoIP services compete on bandwidth and quality of service. In providing broadband services, we compete primarily with cable companies, wireless providers and other broadband service providers. Competition within our broadband services is based on price, bandwidth and service. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable and other satellite companies as well as other sales agents and resellers. Competition here is based on price, content and quality. The market for wireless services is highly competitive. We market and sell wireless services to customers who are buying these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other services. In reselling Verizon Wireless services, we compete with national and regional carriers as well as other sales agents and resellers. Competition for our wireless services is based on the coverage area, price, services offered, features, handsets, technical quality and customer service. In providing private line services we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. Additionally we are experiencing increased competition for private line services from cable companies. Competition for private line services is based primarily on price, as well as network reach, bandwidth, quality, reliability and customer service. Although we are experiencing intense competition in these markets, we believe we are favorably positioned due to our strong presence in our local service area. Many of our competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are and therefore they are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations. Throughout each of our competitive services, we continue to focus on expanding and improving our bundled offerings. Our competitors for hosting, colocation and other IT services range from telecommunications companies, hardware manufacturers and system integrators that support the in-house IT operations for a business or offer outsourcing solutions. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer more inexpensive solutions to our customers. To compete, we focus on providing complex, secure and performance-driven services to our business customers through our global infrastructure. Our services can be purchased individually or as part of a total outsourcing arrangement. Our keys to growth include targeting the right clients, offering targeted business solutions to solve specific client needs and delivering compelling and comprehensive technical capabilities. Legacy Services The market for legacy services is highly competitive and is based primarily on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. We believe these customers value the convenience of and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. Within the telecommunications industry, these services may include telephone, wireless, video and Internet access. Accordingly, we and our competitors continue to develop and deploy more innovative product bundling, enhanced features and combined billing options in an effort to retain and gain customers. While we rely on reseller or sales agency arrangements to provide some of our bundled 13 Table of Contents services, some of our competitors are able to provide all of their bundled services directly, which may provide them a competitive advantage. In providing long-distance services to our customers, we compete primarily with national telecommunications and VoIP providers. Competition in the long-distance market is based primarily on price; however customer service, quality and reliability can also be influencing factors. Our resale and UNE customers are experiencing the same competition with CLECs, for local services customers as we are, as discussed above. We also compete with some of our own customers that are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By doing so, these competitors take traffic off of our network. Significant competitive factors in the local telephone industry include pricing, packaging of services and features, quality and convenience of service and meeting customer needs such as simplified billing and timely response to services calls. We provide access services to other telecommunications providers to connect their customers and their networks to our network so that they can provide long-distance, transport, data, wireless and Internet services. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies, resellers and wireless service providers. Our access service customers face competitive pressures in their businesses that are similar to those we face with respect to strategic and legacy services. To the extent that these competitive pressures result in decreased demand for their services, demand for our access services also declines. Wireless telephone services increasingly constitute a significant source of competition with ILEC services, especially since wireless carriers have begun to compete effectively on the basis of price with more traditional telephone services. As a result, some customers have chosen to completely forego use of traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service for voice services. This trend is more pronounced among residential customers, which comprise 61% of our access line customers. We anticipate this trend will continue, particularly if wireless service providers continue to expand their coverage areas, reduce their rates, improve the quality of their services and offer enhanced new services. Substantially all of our access line customers are currently capable of receiving wireless services from at least one competitive service provider. Technological and regulatory developments in wireless services, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite, coaxial cable, fiber optics, local multipoint distribution services, WiFi and other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the development of alternatives to traditional landline services. Moreover, the growing prevalence of electronic mail, text messaging, social networking and similar digital communications continues to reduce the demand for traditional landline voice services. Improvements in the quality of VoIP service have led several cable, Internet, data and other communications companies, as well as start-up companies, to substantially increase their offerings of VoIP service to business and residential customers. VoIP providers frequently offer features that cannot readily be provided by traditional ILECs and may price their services at or below those prices currently charged for traditional local and long-distance telephone services for several reasons, including lower operating costs and regulatory advantages. Although over the past several years the FCC has increasingly subjected portions of VoIP operations to federal regulation, VoIP services currently operate under fewer regulatory constraints than LEC services. For all these reasons, we cannot assure that VoIP providers will not successfully compete for our customers. In providing other legacy services, such as traditional services and ISDN, we compete primarily with national telecommunications providers and cable companies. Competition for these other legacy services is based primarily on price and bundled offerings. 14 Table of Contents Data Integration In providing data integration to our customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. Our strategy is to provide our data integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing strategic and legacy services, as discussed above. Environmental Compliance From time to time we may incur environmental compliance and remediation expenses, mainly resulting from the operation of vehicle fleets or power supplies for our communications equipment. Although we cannot assess with certainty the impact of any future compliance and remediation obligations or provide you with any assurances regarding the ultimate impact thereof, we do not believe that future environmental compliance and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Seasonality Overall, our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality. From time to time weather related problems have resulted in increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year. Employees At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 24,800 employees, of which approximately 12,000 are members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or the Communications Workers of America and are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expired October 6, 2012. Our parent company, CenturyLink, is currently negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended, and the unions have agreed to provide at least a twenty-four hour advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of this report. Over the past several years, we have reduced our workforce primarily due to (i) integration efforts from CenturyLink's recent acquisition of us; (ii) increased competitive pressures; and (iii) the loss of access lines over the last several years. Website Access and Important Investor Information Our website is the same as that of our parent company, CenturyLink, which is www.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We have adopted CenturyLink's written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that CenturyLink makes any changes (other than by a technical, 15 Table of Contents administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of its code of conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, CenturyLink intends to disclose these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of CenturyLink's guidelines on significant governance issues and the charters of their audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and risk evaluation committee, are also available in the "Corporate Governance" section of our website at www.centurylink.com/Pages/AboutUs/Governance/ or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at CenturyLink, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203. Investors may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. For information on the operation of the Public Reference Room, you are encouraged to call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. For all of our electronic filings, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. In connection with filing this annual report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Act's related regulations. In addition, during 2012, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violations by us of the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Related Matters This report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities law include, and future oral or written statements or press releases by us and our management may include, forward-looking statements about our financial condition, operating results and business. These statements include, among others: statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our business activities and certain transactions we have completed, such as increased revenue and decreased capital or operating expenditures; statements about our anticipated future operating and financial performance, financial position and liquidity, tax position, contingent liabilities, growth opportunities and growth rates, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, business prospects, regulatory and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure plans, investment results, financing alternatives and sources and pricing plans; and other similar statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other matters that are not historical facts, many of which are highlighted by words such as "may," "would," "could," "should," "plan," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "likely," "seeks," "hopes," or variations or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date such statements are made concerning future developments and events, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or implied by us in those statements if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; 16 Table of Contents the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including the outcome or regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment and net neutrality; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions; our ability to successfully integrate our acquired operations into CenturyLink's operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from their recent acquisition of us cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating our acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to use net operating loss carryovers in projected amounts; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demands for high-speed broadband services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; other risks referenced in this report or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A of this report, which is subject to updating and supplementing by our subsequent SEC reports. These risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Anticipated events may not occur and our actual results or performance may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Additional risks that we currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected results. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market 17 Table of Contents conditions and prices, the economy in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the communications industry are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our management's knowledge and experience in the markets in which we operate and the communications industry generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. Our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed below in Item 1A of this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Please be aware that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risks Affecting Our Business Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. In addition to competition from larger national telecommunications providers, we are facing increasing competition from a variety of other sources, including cable and satellite companies, wireless providers, broadband companies, resellers, sales agents and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other factors, we continue to lose access lines. Some of our current and potential competitors (i) offer a more comprehensive range of communications products and services, (ii) have market presence, engineering and technical capabilities, and financial and other resources greater than ours, (iii) own larger or more diverse networks with greater transmission capacity or other advantages, (iv) conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than us, (v) are subject to less regulation, (vi) offer greater online content or (vii) have substantially stronger brand names. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to provide more attractive offerings, to charge lower prices for their products and services, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and market share, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or 18 Table of Contents money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. We are continually taking steps to respond to these competitive pressures, but these efforts may not be successful. Our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected if these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient and if we otherwise are unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly without corresponding cost reductions. If this occurred, our ability to service debt and pay other obligations would also be adversely affected. Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The communications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, many of which are reducing demand for our traditional voice services or are enabling our current customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks. Similarly, the information technology services industry is experiencing rapid changes in technologies. Further technological change could require us to expend capital or other resources in excess of currently contemplated levels or to forgo the development or provision of products or services that others can provide more efficiently. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any inability to effectively respond to changes in technology and markets could also adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. For additional information on the risks of increased expenditures, see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOur business requires us to incur substantial capital and operating expenses, which reduces our available free cash flow." Our legacy services continue to experience declining revenues, and our efforts to offset these declines may not be successful. The telephone industry has experienced a decline in access lines and network access revenues, which, coupled with the other changes resulting from competitive, technological and regulatory developments, continue to place downward pressure on the revenues we generate from our legacy services. We have taken a variety of steps to counter these declines, including: an increased focus on selling a broader range of higher-growth strategic services, which are described in detail in Item 8 of this report; an increased focus on serving a broader range of business, governmental and wholesale customers; and greater use of service bundles. However, some of these strategic services generate lower profit margins than our traditional services, and some can be expected to experience slowing growth as increasing numbers of our existing or potential customers subscribe to these newer products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from our new offerings will offset revenue losses associated from reduced sales of our legacy products. Similarly, we cannot assure you that our new service offerings will be as successful 19 Table of Contents as anticipated. In addition, our reliance on third parties to provide certain of these strategic services could constrain our flexibility, as described further below. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 24,800 employees, of which approximately 12,000, or 48%, are members of various bargaining units represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or the Communications Workers of America and are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expired October 6, 2012. We are currently negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended and the applicable unions have agreed to provide us with at least twenty-four hour advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. We may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services and result in increased cost to us. In addition, new labor agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations in the future. To the extent they contain benefit provisions, these agreements may also limit our flexibility to change benefits in response to industry or competitive changes. In particular, the post-employment benefits provided under these agreements could cause us to incur costs not faced by many of our competitors, which could ultimately hinder our competitive position. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively adjust to changes in our business. The above-described changes in our industry have placed a higher premium on marketing, technological, engineering and provisioning skills. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to retrain our staff to acquire or strengthen skills necessary to address these changes, and, where necessary, to attract and retain new personnel that possess these skills. Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and credit market, could negatively affect our business. Worldwide economic growth has been sluggish since 2008, and many experts believe that a confluence of factors in the United States, Europe, Asia and developing countries may result in a prolonged period of economic downturn, slow growth or economic uncertainty. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of these general economic conditions, they could adversely affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. These conditions impact, in particular, our ability to sell discretionary products or services to business customers that are under pressure to reduce costs or to governmental customers that have suffered recent budget cuts. Any one or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to continue declining. Also, our customers may encounter financial hardships or may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could negatively impact their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, as discussed further below, unstable economic and credit markets may preclude us from refinancing maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to raise capital. 20 Table of Contents We could be harmed by security breaches, damages or other significant disruptions or failures of our networks, IT infrastructure or related systems, or of those we operate for certain of our customers. To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a high-capacity, reliable and secure network. We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach or significant disruption of our IT infrastructure and related systems (including our billing systems). As a communications and IT company, we face an added risk that a security breach or other significant disruption of our public networks or IT infrastructure and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our business and governmental customers could lead to material interruptions or curtailments of service. Moreover, due to the nature of our customers and services, we face a heightened risk that a security breach or disruption could result in unauthorized access to our customers' proprietary or classified information on our public networks or internal systems or the systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and systems and maintain contingency plans in the event of security breaches or other system disruptions. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our security efforts and measures will prevent unauthorized access to our systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses, malware, or other forms of cyber attacks or similar events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud, malice or sabotage on the part of employees, third parties or other nations, or could result from accidental technological failure. Similar to other large telecommunications companies, we have been subject to a variety of security breaches and cyber attacks, although to date none of these have resulted in a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that future security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging, especially in light of the growing frequency and sophistication of cyber attacks and intrusions. We may be unable to anticipate all potential types of attacks or intrusions or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and any resulting damages could be material. Additional risks to our network and infrastructure include: power losses or physical damage, whether caused by fire, adverse weather conditions, terrorism or otherwise; capacity limitations; software and hardware defects or malfunctions; programming, processing and other human error; and other disruptions that are beyond our control. Network disruptions, security breaches and other significant failures of the above-described systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our customers' end users, including trade secrets, which others could use for competitive, disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; require significant management attention or financial resources to remedy the damages that result or to change our systems, including expenses to repair systems, add new personnel or develop additional protective systems; 21 Table of Contents subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, fines, penalties, termination or other remedies, particularly with respect to service standards set by state regulatory commissions; or result in a loss of business, damage our reputation among our customers and the public generally, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. Any or all of the foregoing developments could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Increases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers. Video streaming services and peer-to-peer file sharing applications use significantly more bandwidth than traditional Internet activity such as web browsing and email. As utilization rates and availability of these services continue to grow, our high-speed Internet customers may use much more bandwidth than in the past. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity in order to avoid service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers. Alternatively, we could choose to implement network management practices to reduce the network capacity available to bandwidth-intensive activities during certain times in market areas experiencing congestion, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and attract customers in affected markets. While we believe demand for these services may drive high-speed Internet customers to pay for faster broadband speeds, we may not be able to recover the costs of the necessary network investments. This could result in an adverse impact to our operating margins, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to defend ourselves against claims that we infringe upon others' intellectual property rights, or we may need to seek third-party licenses to expand our product offerings. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. Similarly, from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If we cannot license or otherwise obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be restricted, made more costly or delayed. 22 Table of Contents Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers, including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services, our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Consolidation among other participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the last couple of decades, and some of our competitors have combined with other telecommunications providers, resulting in larger competitors that have greater financial and business resources and broader service offerings. Further consolidation could increase competitive pressures, and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders' equity. Under generally accepted accounting principles, intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. If our intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a significant, non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers, vendors, landlords and other third parties to operate our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. Our local exchange carrier networks consist of central office and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches. If any of these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering or servicing these network components on a timely basis, our operations could suffer significantly. To the extent that proprietary technology of a supplier is an integral component of our network, we may have limited flexibility to purchase key network components from alternative suppliers. Similarly, our data center operations are materially reliant on leasing significant amounts of space from landlords and substantial amounts of power from utility companies, and being able to renew these arrangements from time to time on favorable terms. In addition, we rely on a limited number of software vendors to support our business management systems. In the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement supplies, services, space or utilities on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs or cause disruptions in our services. 23 Table of Contents Portions of our property, plant and equipment are located on property owned by third parties. Over the past few years, certain utilities, cooperatives and municipalities in certain of the states in which we operate have requested significant rate increases for attaching our plant to their facilities. To the extent that these entities are successful in increasing the amount we pay for these attachments, our future operating costs will increase. In addition, we rely on rights-of-way, colocation agreements and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies and other third parties to locate our cable, conduit and other network equipment on their respective properties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. We depend on key members of our senior management team. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of a limited number of senior officers. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense and we may have difficulty retaining our current senior officers or attracting new ones in the event of terminations or resignations. For a discussion of similar retention concerns relating to our recent mergers, please see the risks described below under the heading "Risks Relating to our Recent Acquisition." As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their distribution of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or other payments. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing, to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. All of our subsidiaries are subject to state law restrictions that limit the amount of dividends they can pay us. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries may be restricted under loan agreements or regulatory orders from transferring funds to us, including certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that may be paid to us. Moreover, our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of OperationLiquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report for further discussion on these matters. Risks Relating to our Recent Acquisition We may be unable to integrate successfully into CenturyLink its recently-acquired operations and realize the anticipated benefits of the recent acquisition. CenturyLink's acquisition of us involved the combination of two companies which previously operated as independent public companies. We have devoted, and will continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of CenturyLink and Qwest. We may encounter difficulties in the integration process, including the following: the inability to successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the acquisition, either due to technological challenges, personnel shortages, strikes or otherwise, any of which would result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame anticipated or at all; lost sales as a result of customers deciding not to do business with the combined company; 24 Table of Contents the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel from multiple companies, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high quality products and services under a unified culture; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, regulatory restrictions, sales forces, marketing strategies, product markets and customer bases; the failure to retain key employees, some of whom could be critical to integrating or expanding the companies; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisition; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating the companies' operations. For all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our products, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. CenturyLink cannot assure you whether, when or in what amounts they will be able to use our net operating losses. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $5.3 billion of federal net operating losses, or NOLs. These NOLs can be used to offset our future federal taxable income. CenturyLink's acquisition of us caused an "ownership change" under federal tax laws relating to the use of NOLs. As a result, these laws could limit CenturyLink's ability to use our NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes to reduce future federal taxable income. CenturyLink currently expects to use substantially all of these NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes. However, if CenturyLink is unable to realize these benefits, its future income tax payments would be higher than expected, which would adversely affect its financial results and liquidity. As a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink, our financial results and liquidity could be similarly affected. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation, or other material litigation of CenturyLink could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, on the trading price of our debt securities and on our ability to access the capital markets. As described in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report and of CenturyLink's Annual Report on Form 10-K, CenturyLink and we are involved in several legal proceedings that, if resolved against them or us, could have a material adverse effect on their, as well as our, business and financial condition. These matters include certain KPNQwest matters, which present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters seek billions of dollars in damages. We continue to defend against these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. We can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially and adversely 25 Table of Contents affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional debt securities or selling assets. There are other material proceedings pending against CenturyLink and us, as described in the above-referenced Note 16. Depending on their outcome, any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operating results. We can give you no assurances as to the impact of these matters on our operating results or financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation. General. We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer regulated services, and we are subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements and interpretations under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we are always considered to be in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their own initiative. Regulation of the telecommunications industry continues to change rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Notwithstanding a recent movement towards alternative regulation, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which periodically exposes us to pricing or earnings disputes and could expose us to unanticipated price declines. Interexchange carriers have filed complaints in various forums requesting reductions in our access rates. In addition, several long-distance providers are disputing amounts owed to us for carrying Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") traffic, or traffic they claim to be VoIP traffic, and are refusing to pay such amounts. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. Risks associated with recent changes in federal regulation. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and subscriber line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. We expect these changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive in our wholesale business, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. Several judicial challenges to the CAF order are pending and additional future challenges are possible, any of which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. Moreover, rulemaking designed to implement the order is not complete, and several FCC proceedings relating to the order remain pending. For these and other reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time. In addition, during the last few years Congress or the FCC has initiated various other changes, including (i) broadband stimulus projects, support funds and similar plans and (ii) new "network neutrality" rules. The FCC is also considering changes in the regulation of special access services. Any of these recent or pending initiatives could adversely affect our operations or financial results. 26 Table of Contents Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations continue to create significant compliance costs for us. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, such challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. Our business also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to regulations or laws related to broadband deployment, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, enhancing privacy, or addressing other issues that impact our business, including the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (which requires communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized electronic surveillance), and laws governing local number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. We expect our compliance costs to increase if future laws or regulations continue to increase our obligations to assist other governmental agencies. Risks posed by other regulations. All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental regulations. We monitor our compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we believe that we are in compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition against us. For over 15 years, Congress and the FCC have taken several steps that have resulted in increased competition among communications service providers. Many of the FCC's regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings, thus making it difficult to determine the ultimate impact of these changes on us and our competitors. "Net neutrality" legislation or regulation could limit our ability to operate our high-speed data business profitably and to manage our broadband facilities efficiently . In order to continue to provide quality high-speed data service at attractive prices, we believe we need the continued flexibility to respond to changing consumer demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to invest in our networks. The FCC's "net neutrality" regulations could adversely impact our ability to operate our high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades and implement network management practices that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services, and could therefore negatively impact our ability to compete effectively. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. As such, we could be exposed to legal claims relating to content disseminated on our networks. Claims could challenge the accuracy of materials on our network, or could involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy or copyright infringement. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. We are subject to significant regulations that limit our flexibility. As a diversified full service incumbent local exchange carrier in most of our key markets, we have traditionally been subject to significant regulation that does not apply to many of our competitors. This 27 Table of Contents regulation imposes substantial compliance costs on us and restricts our ability to change rates, to compete and to respond rapidly to changing industry conditions. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, regulatory disparities between us and our competitors could impede our ability to compete. We are subject to franchising requirements that could impede our expansion opportunities. We may be required to obtain from municipal authorities operating franchises to install or expand facilities. Some of these franchises may require us to pay franchise fees. These franchising requirements generally apply to our fiber transport and competitive local exchange carrier operations, and to our facilities-based video services. These requirements could delay us in expanding our operations or increase the costs of providing these services. We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented thereunder, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. Any failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in us. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see "Regulation" in Item 1 of this report. Risks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources CenturyLink's and our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. Our parent, CenturyLink, and we continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2012, our consolidated debt was approximately $9.6 billion, which was included in CenturyLink's consolidated debt of approximately $20.6 billion as of that date. Approximately $2.1 billion of CenturyLink's debt securities, which includes approximately $1.4 billion of our debt securities, come due over the next thirty-six months. While we currently believe that CenturyLink and we will have the financial resources to meet or refinance our obligations when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate our future financial condition or the condition of CenturyLink, the credit markets or the economy. We may incur unexpected expenses or liabilities, and we may have limited access to financing. Our significant levels of debt can adversely affect us in several other respects, including (i) limiting our ability to access the capital markets, (ii) exposing us to the risk of credit rating downgrades, which would raise our borrowing costs and could further limit our access to capital, (iii) hindering our flexibility to plan for or react to changing market, industry or economic conditions, (iv) limiting the amount of cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, or other uses, (v) making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases, and (vi) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. The effects of each of these factors could be intensified if we increase our borrowings. We expect to periodically require financing to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and credit market, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) under a variety of circumstances, including if revenues and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive pressures increase, if 28 Table of Contents regulatory requirements change, if we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plans, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits significantly earlier than is anticipated, if CenturyLink or we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Items 8 of this report or in CenturyLink's Annual Report on Form 10-K. We can give no assurance that this additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which could further raise our borrowing costs and further limit our future access to capital and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Certain of our debt instruments have cross payment default or cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit ratings. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report for additional information about CenturyLink's credit facility. Our debt agreements and the debt agreements of CenturyLink and its other subsidiaries allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. The terms of our debt instruments and the debt instruments of CenturyLink and its other subsidiaries permit additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be necessary for many reasons, including those discussed immediately above. Incremental borrowings on terms that impose additional financial risks could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. Our business requires us to incur substantial capital and operating expenses, which reduce our available free cash flow. Our business is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the coming years. As discussed further under "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our BusinessIncreases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers," increased bandwidth consumption by consumers and businesses have placed increased demands on the transmission capacity of our networks. If we determine that our networks must be expanded to handle these increased demands, we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures, even though there is no assurance that the return on our investment will be satisfactory. In addition, many of our growth initiatives are capital intensive and changes in technology could require further spending. In addition to investing in expanded networks, new products or new technologies, we must from time to time replace some of the equipment that supports our traditional services as that equipment ages, even though the revenue base from those services is not growing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our maintenance and core growth requirements, this may not be the case if demands on our network continue to accelerate or other circumstances underlying our expectations change. Increased spending could, among other things, adversely affect our operating margins, cash flows, results of operations and financial position. Similarly, we continue to anticipate incurring substantial operating expenses to support our incumbent services and growth initiatives. Although we have successfully reduced our operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further reduce these costs, even if revenues in some of our lines of business are decreasing. If so, our operating margins will be adversely impacted. 29 Table of Contents Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our qualified pension plan could negatively impact our liquidity. The funded status of our qualified pension plan is the difference between the value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The accounting unfunded status of our qualified pension plan was $948 million as of December 31, 2012. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligation or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. These adverse changes could require us to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan or could accelerate the timing of required cash payments. Based on current laws and circumstances, (i) we were not required to make a cash contribution to this plan in 2012 and (ii) we do not expect we will be required to make a contribution in 2013. The actual amount of required contributions to our plan in 2014 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest and discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions could have a negative impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. CenturyLink and QC plan to access the public debt markets, and we cannot assure you that these markets will remain free of disruptions. CenturyLink has a significant amount of indebtedness that it intends to refinance over the next several years, principally it expects through the issuance of debt securities of CenturyLink, QC or both. CenturyLink's ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, the financial position, performance, and credit ratings of CenturyLink and QC, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond its control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing disruptions in the European sovereign debt markets, the failure of the United States to reduce its deficit in amounts deemed to be sufficient, possible further downgrades in the credit ratings of the U.S. debt, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad. Instability in the global financial markets has from time to time resulted in periodic volatility in the capital markets. This volatility could limit CenturyLink's access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs or, in some cases, the inability to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to CenturyLink, or at all. Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize its and our ability to repay, refinance or reduce debt obligations. Other Risks We regularly transfer our cash to CenturyLink, which exposes us to certain risks. Under our cash management arrangement with CenturyLink, we regularly transfer our cash to CenturyLink, which we recognize on our balance sheet as advances to affiliates. Although CenturyLink periodically repays these advances to fund our cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time CenturyLink may owe us a substantial sum under this arrangement. Accordingly, developments that adversely impact CenturyLink could adversely impact our ability to collect these advances. If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in Item 7 of this 30 Table of Contents report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered "critical" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Tax audits or changes in tax laws could adversely affect us. For periods after the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. As such, we could be severally liable for tax examinations and adjustments attributable to other members of the CenturyLink affiliated group. Significant taxpayers (such as QCII for periods prior to the CenturyLink acquisition and CenturyLink for periods after the CenturyLink acquisition) are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. Tax sharing agreements have been executed between us and previous affiliates, and we believe the liabilities, if any, arising from adjustments to previously filed returns would be borne by the affiliated group member determined to have a deficiency under the terms and conditions of such agreements and applicable tax law. We have not generally provided for liabilities attributable to former affiliated companies or for claims they have asserted or may assert against us. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our property, plant and equipment consists principally of telephone lines, central office equipment, land and buildings related to our telephone operations. Our gross property, plant and equipment consisted of the following components as of the following dates: Land 3% 4% Fiber, conduit and other outside plant (1) 34% 34% Central office and other network electronics (2) 35% 32% Support assets (3) 24% 27% Construction in progress (4) 4% 3% Gross property, plant and equipment 100% 100% (1) Fiber, conduit and other outside plant consists of fiber and metallic cable, conduit, poles and other supporting structures. (2) Central office and other network electronics consists of circuit and packet switches, routers, transmission electronics and electronics providing service to customers. (3) Support assets consist of buildings, computers and other administrative and support equipment. (4) Construction in progress includes inventory held for construction and property of the aforementioned categories that has not been placed in service as it is still under construction. We own substantially all of our telecommunications equipment required for our business. However, we lease certain facilities, plant, equipment and software under various capital lease arrangements when the leasing arrangements are more favorable to us than purchasing the assets. We also own and lease administrative offices in major metropolitan locations both in the United States and internationally. Substantially all of our network electronics equipment is located in buildings or on land that we own or lease within our local service area. Outside of our local service area, our assets are generally located on real property pursuant to an agreement with the property owner or another person with rights to the property. It is possible that we may lose our rights under one or more of these agreements, due to their termination or their expiration. Several putative class actions have been filed against us disputing our use of certain rights-of-way as described in "Legal ProceedingsOther Matters" in Item 3 of this report. If we lose any of these rights-of-way or are unable to renew them, we may find it necessary to move or replace the affected portions of our network. However, we do not expect any material adverse impacts as a result of the loss of any of these rights. On April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. On the date of the acquisition, our assets and liabilities were recognized at fair value. This revaluation has been reflected in our consolidated financial statements and, therefore, has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the successor period beginning on April 1, 2011. As of the successor dates of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, our total net property, plant and equipment was approximately $9.1 billion and approximately $9.5 billion, respectively. For additional information, see Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLink and Note 6Property, Plant and Equipment to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. During 2012, we reclassified certain amounts reported in prior periods of inventory held for construction to conform to the current period presentation. This reclassification increased construction in progress at December 31, 2011 by $55 million with an offsetting decrease to fiber, conduit and other 32 Table of Contents outside plant and central office and other network electronics by $8 million and $47 million, respectively. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS CenturyLink is involved in several legal proceedings to which we are not a party that, if resolved against CenturyLink, could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. As a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink, our business and financial condition could be similarly affected. You can find descriptions of these legal proceedings in CenturyLink's quarterly and annual reports filed with the SEC. Because we are not a party to any of these matters, we have not accrued any liabilities for these matters. In this section, when we refer to a class action as "putative" it is because a class has been alleged, but not certified in that matter. Until and unless a class has been certified by the court, it has not been established that the named plaintiffs represent the class of plaintiffs they purport to represent. We have established accrued liabilities for the matters described below where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. We are vigorously defending the company against all of the matters described below. As a matter of course, we are prepared both to litigate the matters to judgment, as well as to evaluate and consider all settlement opportunities. The terms and conditions of applicable bylaws, certificates or articles of incorporation, agreements or applicable law may obligate us to indemnify our former directors, officers or employees with respect to certain of the matters described below and we have been advancing legal fees and costs to certain former directors, officers or employees in connection with certain matters described below. KPNQwest Litigation/Investigation On September 29, 2010, the trustees in the Dutch bankruptcy proceeding for KPNQwest, N.V. (of which we were a major shareholder) filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Haarlem, the Netherlands, alleging tort and mismanagement claims under Dutch law. We and Koninklijke KPN N.V. ("KPN") are defendants in this lawsuit along with a number of former KPNQwest supervisory board members and a former officer of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with us. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that defendants' actions were a cause of the bankruptcy of KPNQwest, and they seek damages for the bankruptcy deficit of KPNQwest, which is claimed to be approximately 4.2 billion (or approximately $5.6 billion based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2012), plus statutory interest. Two lawsuits asserting similar claims were previously filed against Qwest and others in federal courts in New Jersey in 2004 and Colorado in 2009; those courts dismissed the lawsuits without prejudice on the grounds that the claims should not be litigated in the United States. On September 13, 2006, Cargill Financial Markets, Plc and Citibank, N.A. filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, against us, KPN, KPN Telecom B.V., and other former officers, employees or supervisory board members of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with us. The lawsuit alleges that defendants misrepresented KPNQwest's financial and business condition in connection with the origination of a credit facility and wrongfully allowed KPNQwest to borrow funds under that facility. Plaintiffs allege damages of approximately 219 million (or approximately $289 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2012). On April 25, 2012, the court issued its judgment denying the claims asserted by Cargill and Citibank in their lawsuit. Cargill and Citibank are appealing that decision. We have not accrued a liability for the above matters. Regarding the 2010 proceeding, we believe it is premature to determine whether an accrual is warranted and, if so, a reasonable estimate of our 33 Table of Contents probable liability. Regarding the 2006 suit, we do not believe that liability is probable. We will continue to defend against both KPNQwest litigation matters vigorously. Other Matters Several putative class actions relating to the installation of fiber optic cable in certain rights-of-way were filed against Qwest on behalf of landowners on various dates and in courts located in 34 states in which Qwest has such cable (Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and Wisconsin.) For the most part, the complaints challenge our right to install our fiber optic cable in railroad rights-of-way. The complaints allege that the railroads own the right-of-way as an easement that did not include the right to permit us to install our cable in the right-of-way without the Plaintiffs' consent. Most of the currently pending actions purport to be brought on behalf of state-wide classes in the named Plaintiffs' respective states, although one action pending before the Illinois Court of Appeals purports to be brought on behalf of landowners in Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin. In general, the complaints seek damages on theories of trespass and unjust enrichment, as well as punitive damages. After previous attempts to enter into a single nationwide settlement in a single court proved unsuccessful, the parties proceeded to seek court approval of settlements on a state-by-state basis. To date, the parties have received final approval of such settlements in 22 states (Alabama, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Virginia and Wisconsin), have received preliminary approval of the settlements in eight states (California, Kentucky, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Utah), and have not yet received either preliminary or final approval in four states (Arizona, Massachusetts, New Mexico and Texas). We have accrued an amount that we believe is probable for these matters; however, the amount is not material to our consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we are involved in other proceedings incidental to our business, including patent infringement allegations, administrative hearings of state public utility commissions relating primarily to rate making, actions relating to employee claims, various tax issues, environmental law issues, grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies and miscellaneous third party tort actions. The outcome of these other proceedings is not predictable. However, we do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these other proceedings, after considering available insurance coverage, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The information contained in Note 16Commitments and Contingenciesto the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 34 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Not Applicable. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table of selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. The comparability of the following selected financial data below is significantly impacted by CenturyLink's April 1, 2011 acquisition of us and the resulting revaluation of our assets and liabilities. As a result of the acquisition, the following table presents certain selected consolidated financial data for two periods: predecessor and successor, which relate to the periods preceding the acquisition and the period succeeding the acquisition, respectively. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. Selected financial information from the consolidated statements of operations data is as follows: Operating revenues $ 11,356 8,327 2,846 11,730 12,311 13,475 Operating expenses 10,078 7,784 2,267 9,729 10,336 11,378 Operating income $ 1,278 543 579 2,001 1,975 2,097 Income before income tax expense $ 504 51 357 450 903 1,051 Net income (loss) 308 19 211 (55 ) 662 652 (1) See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations" in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of unusual items affecting the results for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, the successor nine months ended December 31, 2011, the predecessor three months ended March 31, 2011, as well as the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. 35 Table of Contents Selected financial information from the consolidated balance sheets is as follows: Goodwill $ 10,123 10,123 Total assets 29,246 31,155 17,220 20,380 20,141 Total long-term debt (1) 9,628 12,296 11,947 14,200 13,555 Total stockholder's equity (deficit) 10,624 11,276 (1,655 ) (1,178 ) (1,386 ) (1) Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. Selected financial information from the consolidated statements of cash flows is as follows: Other data: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,806 2,152 777 3,367 3,307 2,931 Net cash used in investing activities (1,214 ) (1,868 ) (408 ) (1,488 ) (1,406 ) (1,693 ) Net cash used in financing activities (1,553 ) (660 ) (317 ) (3,913 ) (60 ) (1,575 ) Payments for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (1,589 ) (1,207 ) (410 ) (1,488 ) (1,409 ) (1,777 ) The following table presents certain selected consolidated operating data as of the following dates: Broadband subscribers (2) 3,318 3,185 3,060 Access lines (3) 8,055 8,533 9,193 (1) In the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting our broadband subscribers and reclassified prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. For additional information see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverview" in Item 7 of this report. (2) Broadband subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables. (3) Access lines are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All references to "Notes" in this Item 7 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in Item 1 of this report for factors relating to these statements and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overview We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), broadband, data, managed hosting, wireless and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to competitive local exchange carriers. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. We generate the majority of our revenues from services provided in the 14-state region of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We refer to this region as our local service area. As discussed in Note 2Acquisition by CenturyLinkto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, on April 1, 2011, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. Each outstanding share of our common stock was converted into 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The estimated aggregate consideration was approximately $12.273 billion. Since April 1, 2011, our consolidated results of operations have been included in the consolidated results of operations of CenturyLink. CenturyLink has accounted for its acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, which resulted in the assignment of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The aggregate consideration exceeded the aggregate estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by $10.123 billion, which we have recognized as goodwill. This goodwill is attributable to strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks that we expect CenturyLink and its consolidated subsidiaries, including us, to realize. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The recognition of assets and liabilities at fair value is reflected in our consolidated financial statements and therefore has resulted in a new basis of accounting for the "successor period" beginning on April 1, 2011. This new basis of accounting means that our consolidated financial statements for the successor periods will not be comparable to our previously reported consolidated financial statements, including the predecessor period consolidated financial statements in this report. 37 Table of Contents We have incurred operating expenses related to CenturyLink's acquisition of us, which consist primarily of integration and severance expenses. The table below summarizes our acquisition-related expenses: Acquisition-related expenses $ 47 154 3 157 The total amounts of these expenses are recognized in our cost of services and products and selling, general and administrative expenses. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries that include lines of credit, affiliate obligations, capital contributions and dividends. As part of these cash management arrangements, affiliates provide lines of credit to certain other affiliates. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit and intercompany obligations vary from time to time. Under these arrangements, the majority of our cash balance is advanced on a daily basis to CenturyLink. From time to time we may declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink, using cash repaid to us under these advances, which has the net effect of reducing the amount of these advances. We report the balance of these transfers on our consolidated balance sheet as advances to affiliates. Since the April 1, 2011 closing of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, our operations have been integrated into and reported as part of the segments of CenturyLink. CenturyLink's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") has become our CODM, but reviews our financial information on an aggregate basis only in connection with our quarterly and annual reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Consequently, we do not provide our discrete financial information to the CODM on a regular basis. As such, we now have one reportable segment and we have reclassified our prior period results to conform to our current view. We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily private line (including special access), broadband, multi protocol label switching ("MPLS") (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting, video (including DIRECTV), Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, integrated services digital network (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), switched access and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration , which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our government and business customers; and Affiliates and other services , which consist primarily of universal service funds ("USF") revenues and surcharges and services we provide to our affiliates. We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates: computer system development and support services; network support and technical services. 38 Table of Contents During the first quarter of 2012, we reclassified certain prior period revenues between the aforementioned four categories to conform to the current period presentation. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, we operated approximately 8.1 million access lines, which are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network. We count access lines when we install the service. Our methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. Our methodology for counting our access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, we also served approximately 3.3 million broadband subscribers. As described below, we have updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. Our analysis presented below is organized to provide the information we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. The discussion in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" is presented on a combined basis for the successor periods in 2011. We believe that the discussion on a combined basis is more meaningful as it allows the results of operations to be analyzed to the annual period in 2012. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of this report. Business Trends Our financial results were impacted by several significant trends, which are described below. We expect that these trends will continue to affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Strategic services. We continue to see shifts in the makeup of our total revenues as customers move to strategic services, such as private line (including special access), broadband and video services, from legacy services, such as local and access services. Revenues from our strategic services represented 44%, 43% and 40% of our total revenues for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, the combined year ended December 31, 2011 and the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 respectively, and we expect that this percentage will continue to grow. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services, particularly among consumer and small business customers. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, we reached approximately 3.3 million broadband subscribers compared to approximately 3.2 million as of the successor date of December 31, 2011 and 3.1 million as of the predecessor date of December 31, 2010. We believe that continually increasing connection speeds is important to remaining competitive in our industry. As a result, we continue to invest in our broadband network, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional telecommunications network made up of only copper wires. In addition to our broadband network, we continue to expand our product offerings, including Ethernet and MPLS, and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which most consumers already have broadband services. While traditional broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber based broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our broadband revenues. Another trend impacting our strategic services is the deployment of fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers, which in many cases replaces existing copper-based special access services. We believe the growth in fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, ultimately, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain; 39 Table of Contents Legacy services. Revenues from our legacy services represented 43%, 47% and 51% of our total revenues for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, the combined year ended December 31, 2011 and the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 respectively, and we expect that this percentage will continue to decline. Our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses, which declined 6% and 7% in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are replacing traditional voice telecommunications service with substitute services, including (i) cable and wireless voice services and (ii) electronic mail, texting and social networking services. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business. As a result of the expected loss of revenues associated with access lines, we continue to offer service bundling and other product promotions to help mitigate this trend, as described below; Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this revenue stream tends to be more sensitive than revenues from our other services to changes in the economy and to changes in spending trends of our governmental customers, many of whom have recently experienced budget cuts; Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless; Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions; Pension and post-retirement benefits expenses. We are required to recognize in our consolidated financial statements certain expenses relating to our pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans. These expenses are calculated based on several assumptions, including among other things discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that are generally set at December 31 of each year. Changes in these assumptions can cause significant changes in the combined net periodic benefits expenses we recognize. We allocate the expenses of these plans to certain of our other affiliates. The allocation of expenses is based upon the demographics of employees and retirees at our affiliates. Changes in our assumptions can cause significant changes in the net periodic pension and post-retirement benefits expenses we recognize; and Disciplined capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as broadband and the deployment of "fiber to the tower", which is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. While these trends are important to understanding and evaluating our financial results, the other transactions, additional events, uncertainties and trends discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report may also materially impact our business operations and financial results. 40 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations: Operating revenues $ 11,356 8,327 2,846 11,173 11,730 2% (5)% Operating expenses 10,078 7,784 2,267 10,051 9,729 3% Operating income 1,278 543 579 1,122 2,001 14% (44)% Other (expense) income (774 ) (492 ) (222 ) (714 ) (1,551 ) 8% (54)% Income tax expense 196 32 146 178 505 10% (65)% Net income (loss) $ 308 19 211 230 (55 ) 34% nm nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. The following table summarizes certain of our operational metrics: Operational metrics: Broadband subscribers 3,318 3,185 3,060 4% 4% Access lines 8,055 8,533 9,193 (6)% (7)% Employees 24.8 26.9 28.3 (8)% (5)% During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to better align with the methodology used by our parent company, CenturyLink. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. For additional information on our counting methodologies, see "Overview" above. Operating Revenues Strategic services $ 4,978 3,615 1,200 4,815 4,637 3% 4% Legacy services 4,848 3,901 1,400 5,301 5,974 (9)% (11)% Data integration 549 402 123 525 606 5% (13)% Affiliates and other services 981 409 123 532 513 84% 4% Total operating revenues $ 11,356 8,327 2,846 11,173 11,730 2% (5)% 41 Table of Contents Strategic Services Growth in our strategic services revenues in both of the comparative periods was due principally to increases in the number of broadband subscribers as well as volume increases in our Ethernet and MPLS services. These increases were partially offset by declines in our private line services revenues. Legacy Services Legacy services revenues decreased in both of the comparative periods as a result of lower local and long-distance services revenues due to access line loss and reduced access services usage related to competitive pressures and product substitution. Legacy services revenues also decreased in both comparative periods due to lower revenues from our traditional WAN services, caused by customer migration, product substitution and increased competition. Part of the decrease in legacy services revenues for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011, is attributable to lower amortization of deferred revenue due to predecessor deferred installation and activation revenue being assigned no value at the acquisition date. Data Integration Revenues from data integration increased for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to increased equipment sales and professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises equipment. Conversely, these revenues decreased during the combined year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 for the same reasons. Affiliates and Other Services Affiliates and other services revenues increased for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to a change in methodology effective January 1, 2012 that resulted in both higher affiliate revenues and expenses for us. See Note 1Basis of Presentation to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. A portion of the increase in affiliates and other services revenues for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 is attributable to telecommunications services we provided to affiliates since CenturyLink's April 1, 2011 acquisition of us. The remainder of this increase is attributable to increased USF revenues. The increase in affiliates and other services revenues for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to telecommunications services we provided to affiliates, which were partially offset by a decrease in USF revenues. 42 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 4,814 3,523 1,178 4,701 5,011 2% (6)% Selling, general and administrative 1,717 1,741 556 2,297 2,518 (25)% (9)% Operating expensesaffiliates 599 126 126 nm nm Depreciation and amortization 2,948 2,394 533 2,927 2,200 1% 33% Total operating expenses $ 10,078 7,784 2,267 10,051 9,729 3% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Effective January 1, 2012, we changed our rates of capitalized labor as we transitioned certain legacy systems to the historical systems of our parent, CenturyLink. This transition resulted in an estimated $40 million to $55 million increase in the amount of labor capitalized as an asset compared to the amount that would have been capitalized if we had continued to use our legacy systems and a corresponding estimated $40 million to $55 million decrease in operating expenses for the successor year ended December 31, 2012. The reduction in expenses described above, net of tax, increased net income approximately $25 million to $34 million for the successor year ended December 31, 2012. Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are expenses incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These expenses include: employee-related expenses directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages, benefits and professional fees); facilities expenses (which are third-party telecommunications expenses we incur for using other carriers' networks to provide services to our customers); rents and utilities expenses; equipment sales expenses (such as data integration and modem expenses); costs for USF (which are federal and state funds that are established to promote the availability of telecommunications services to all consumers at reasonable and affordable rates, among other things and to which we are often required to contribute); and other expenses directly related to our network and hosting operations. For the successor year ended December 31, 2012, cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased primarily due to increases in customer premise equipment and maintenance costs, USF contribution rates, network expenses and professional and credit card fees, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011. These expenses were partially offset by decreases in employee-related expenses due to changes in the salaries and wages allocation, lower headcount reductions and PTO usage. Cost of services and products for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 decreased due to decreased equipment sales and lower professional services, including network management, security and integration of customer premises 43 Table of Contents equipment. Lower facilities expenses as a result of both lower rates and lower volumes for long-distance service and cost optimization also contributed to the lower expenses in cost of services and products. Cost of services and products also decreased due to lower salaries and wages related to employee reductions in our network operations as we continue to manage our workforce to our workload. The amortization of certain deferred expenses is lower due to assigning no value to these predecessor assets at the acquisition date. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses are expenses incurred in selling products and services to our customers, corporate overhead and other operating expenses. These expenses include: employee-related expenses (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions, benefits and professional fees) directly attributable to selling products or services and employee-related expenses for administrative functions; marketing and advertising; taxes (such as property and other taxes) and fees; external commissions; bad debt expense; and other selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to decreases in salaries and wages and employee benefits related to employee headcount reductions and decreases in marketing and advertising expenses and acquisition-related integration costs. Higher insurance premiums and fees and external commissions partially offset these decreases. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to decreased pension expense, professional fees and marketing and advertising expense. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in severance related to employee reductions, a majority of which was due to CenturyLink's acquisition of us. Operating ExpensesAffiliates Effective January 1, 2012, in connection with post-acquisition systems integration activities, we adopted the affiliate expense allocation methodology used by our parent. This methodology results in certain overhead costs incurred by us and by our parent that were previously assessed to us on a net basis now being assessed on a gross basis both to and from our parent, resulting in both higher affiliate revenues and expenses for us. We believe this change, resulting from systems integration activities, did not have a significant impact to our net income for the successor year ended December 31, 2012. Since CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we have incurred affiliates expenses related to our use of telecommunication services, marketing and employee related support services provided by CenturyLink and its subsidiaries. Increases in operating expensesaffiliates for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 are primarily due to increased affiliate transactions attributable to incurring intercompany expenses for 2012 in its entirety compared to only the last nine months of 2011. 44 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail regarding depreciation and amortization expense: Depreciation $ 1,522 1,209 475 1,684 1,979 (10)% (15)% Amortization 1,426 1,185 58 1,243 221 15% nm Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,948 2,394 533 2,927 2,200 1% 33% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. As of April 1, 2011, our property, plant and equipment was recorded at fair value and as a result net property, plant and equipment decreased $2.136 billion due to CenturyLink's acquisition of us. The decrease in asset value resulted in $88 million lower depreciation expense for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 and $225 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. Effective January 1, 2012, we changed our estimates of the remaining useful lives of certain telecommunications equipment. These changes resulted in an additional decrease to depreciation expense of approximately $93 million, and net of tax, had the effect of increasing net income by approximately $57 million for the successor year ended December 31, 2012. Excluding the effects of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, depreciation expense also decreased for both comparative periods reflected in the table above due to annual updates of our depreciation rates for capitalized assets, which were partially offset by net growth in capital assets. The accounting for CenturyLink's acquisition of us also resulted in an additional $7.558 billion in amortizable intangible customer relationship assets, which resulted in an additional $244 million of amortizable expense for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011, and $770 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, at the acquisition date our capitalized software was also recorded at fair value of $1.702 billion, an increase of $815 million, which increased amortization expense by $59 million and $176 million for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 and the combined year ended December 31, 2011, respectively, as compared to the previous periods. The fair value adjustments for the remaining intangible assets increased amortization expense by $17 million for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 and $61 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the effects of CenturyLink's acquisition of us, amortization expense also increased for both comparative periods reflected in the table above due to net growth in amortizable intangible assets, partially offset by annual updates of our amortization rates for capitalized software. 45 Table of Contents Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our total other income (expense) and income tax expense: Interest expense $ (611 ) (486 ) (227 ) (713 ) (1,039 ) (14)% (31)% Interest expenseaffiliates (144 ) nm Loss on embedded option in convertible debt (475 ) nm Net loss on early retirement of debt (23 ) (8 ) (8 ) (45 ) 188% (82)% Other (expense) income 4 2 5 7 8 (43)% (13)% Total other income (expense) $ (774 ) (492 ) (222 ) (714 ) (1,551 ) 8% (54)% Income tax expense $ 196 32 146 178 505 10% (65)% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to the early retirement of debt, partially offset by interest incurred on new debt issued and a substantial reduction in the amount of net premium amortization recorded at acquisition primarily due to the retirement of several issuances of debt during the affected periods. The decrease in interest expense for the combined year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010, was primarily due to the amortization of those same net premiums. The decrease is also due to the early retirement and maturity of debt since the acquisition date, offset by interest incurred on new debt issued. Interest ExpenseAffiliates Affiliate interest expense increased for the successor year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to increased affiliate loan balances, which QCII used to retire several debt securities. The increased affiliate loan balances are due to CenturyLink's cash management arrangement between certain of its subsidiaries, including us, under which the majority of our cash balance is transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink. We report the balance of these transfers on our balance sheet as advances to affiliates. Loss on Embedded Option in Convertible Debt In November and December 2010, we redeemed all of the then-outstanding $1.118 billion aggregate principal amount of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 at par in addition to the remaining embedded option for $616 million. This, and a partial repurchase of these notes in August 2010, resulted in no gain or loss on the notes and a total loss of $475 million on the embedded conversion option for the year ended predecessor December 31, 2010. 46 Table of Contents Net Loss on Early Retirement of Debt During the fourth quarter of 2012, QCII redeemed $550 million of its 8.00% Notes due 2015, which resulted in a gain of $15 million. During the third quarter of 2012, QC redeemed $484 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2023, which resulted in an immaterial loss. During the second quarter of 2012, QCII redeemed $500 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. During the second quarter of 2012, Qwest Corporation ("QC") completed a premium-priced cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $811 million of 8.375% Notes due 2016 and its $400 million of 7.625% Notes due 2015. With respect to its 8.375% Notes due 2016, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $575 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 71%, for $722 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.625% Notes due 2015, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $308 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 77%, for $369 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of this tender offer resulted in a loss of $46 million. In the first quarter of 2012, QCII redeemed $800 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in a gain of $8 million. In the fourth quarter of 2011, QC redeemed $1.5 billion of its 8.875% Notes due 2012, which resulted in a loss of $6 million. In the second quarter of 2011, QC used the net proceeds of $642 million from the June 8, 2011 debt issuance, together with available cash, to redeem $825 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.875% Notes due 2011 and to pay related fees and expenses, which resulted in an immaterial loss. In the first quarter of 2010, we redeemed $525 million aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes due 2011. We also completed cash tender offers for the purchase of certain of our outstanding debt securities. From theses offers, we received and accepted tenders of approximately $1.107 billion aggregate principal amount of notes for $1.169 billion. We recognized a total loss of $45 million from the redemption and tender offers. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the successor year ended December 31, 2012, was $196 million, or an effective tax rate of 38.9%, compared to $178 million, or an effective tax rate of 43.6%, for the combined year ended December 31, 2011. The effective tax rate was higher in 2011 primarily due to lower income before income tax generated in the period after the CenturyLink merger, which caused non-deductible items to have a greater impact on the effective rate. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased $18 million as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to an increase in book income before tax and offset by a decrease in 2012 related to state NOL valuation allowance reduction and due to the 2011 impact of a valuation allowance increase. Income tax expense for the combined year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010, decreased by $327 million largely as a result of the March 2010 enactments of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. Income tax expense also decreased due to the 2010 tax treatments of (i) the premium paid on our convertible debt, (ii) the expenses incurred when we accelerated the vesting of certain stock-based compensation, and (iii) certain expenses associated with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. As described above, in 2010 we recorded $475 million of expenses associated with extinguishing our convertible notes with cash. These expenses are not deductible for income tax purposes and, as 47 Table of Contents such, they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 40.8 percentage points. On December 21, 2010, we accelerated the vesting of certain restricted stock and performance share awards issued under our Equity Incentive Plan in order to preserve certain economic benefits to our stockholders of $120 million that otherwise would have been lost in connection with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. However, certain of the expenses we recorded for this acceleration are not deductible for income tax purposes and as such they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 4.8 percentage points. During the year ended December 31, 2010 we incurred approximately $39 million of expenses associated with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. Certain of these expenses are not deductible for income tax purposes and, as such, they increased our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 by 1.9 percentage points. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 12Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Other Operational Matters At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 24,800 employees, of which approximately 12,000 are members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or the Communications Workers of America. These employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expired October 6, 2012. Our parent company, CenturyLink, is currently negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended, and the applicable unions have agreed to provide at least a twenty-four hour advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of this report. To help mitigate this potential risk, we have established contingency plans in which we would assign trained, non-represented employees to cover jobs for represented employees in the event of a work stoppage to provide continuity for our customers. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We have identified certain policies and estimates as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our past or present results of operations related to (i) business combinations; (ii) goodwill, customer relationships and other intangible assets; (iii) property, plant and equipment; (iv) pension and post-retirement benefits; (v) loss contingencies and litigation reserves; (vi) affiliates transactions; and (vii) income taxes. These policies and estimates are considered critical because they had a material impact, or they have the potential to have a material impact, on our consolidated financial statements and because they require significant judgments, assumptions or estimates. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made when accounting for the items described below are reasonable, based on information available at the time they are made. However, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. 48 Table of Contents Business Combinations We have accounted for CenturyLink's acquisition of us under the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the tangible and separately identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The portion of the purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of the net tangible and separately identifiable intangible assets acquired represents goodwill. The estimates of fair value and resulting allocation of the purchase price related to CenturyLink's acquisition of us involved significant estimates and judgments by our management. In arriving at the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we considered the following generally accepted valuation approaches: the cost approach, income approach and market approach. Our estimates also included assumptions about projected growth rates, cost of capital, effective tax rates, tax amortization periods, technology life cycles, the regulatory and legal environment and industry and economic trends. In the first quarter of 2012, we completed our valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, along with the related allocations to goodwill and intangible assets. Our acquisition resulted in the assignment of the aggregate consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The fair value of the aggregate consideration transferred exceeded the acquisition date fair value of the recorded tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities by an estimated $10.123 billion, which has been recognized as goodwill. This goodwill is attributable to strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks that we expect to realize. None of the goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The aggregate consideration allocation is based on our final analysis of enterprise value of $24.948 billion. Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets We amortize customer relationships primarily over estimated lives of 10 years, using either the sum-of-the-years-digits or straight-line methods, depending on the type of customer. We amortize capitalized software using the straight-line method over estimated lives ranging up to seven years and amortize trade names and patent assets predominantly using the sum-of-the-years digits method over an estimated life of four years. We are required to test goodwill recorded in business combinations for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or a change in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We are required to write-down the value of goodwill only in periods in which the recorded amount of goodwill exceeds the fair value. Our annual measurement date for testing goodwill impairment is September 30. The impairment testing is done at the reporting unit level; in reviewing the criteria for reporting units when allocating the goodwill resulting from CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we determined that we are one reporting unit. In the third quarter of 2011, we adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, which permits us to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's estimated fair value is less than its carrying amount before applying the two step goodwill impairment test which requires us (i) in step one, to identify potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit against its carrying value and (ii) in step two, to quantify any impairment identified in step one. At September 30, 2012, as a result of changes in our estimate of future cash flows we did not perform a qualitative assessment. We estimated the fair value of Qwest using an equal weighting based on a market approach and a discounted cash flow method. The market approach includes the use of comparable multiples of publicly traded companies whose services are comparable to ours. The discounted cash flow method is based on the present value of projected cash flows and a terminal value, which represents the expected normalized cash flows of Qwest beyond the cash flows from the discrete nine-year projection period. We discounted the 49 Table of Contents estimated cash flows using a rate that represents a market participant's weighted average cost of capital, which we determined to be approximately 6.0% as of the measurement date (which was comprised of an after-tax cost of debt of 3.2% and a cost of equity of 8.4%). During the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed our annual impairment testing and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and the estimated fair value of our equity exceeded our carrying value of equity by 37%. We may be required to assess our goodwill for impairment before our next required testing date of September 30, 2013 under certain circumstances, including any failure of our future operating results to meet forecasted expectations or any significant increases in our weighted average cost of capital. In addition, we cannot assure that adverse conditions will not trigger future goodwill impairment testing or an impairment charge. A number of factors, many of which we have no ability to control, could affect our financial condition, operating results and business prospects and could cause our actual results to differ from the estimates and assumptions we employed in our goodwill impairment testing. These factors include, but are not limited to, (i) further weakening in the overall economy; (ii) a significant decline in our parent's, CenturyLink, stock price and resulting market capitalization; (iii) changes in the discount rate; (iv) successful efforts by our competitors to gain market share in our markets; (v) adverse changes as a result of regulatory actions; (vi) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the overall business climate; and (vii) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of our reporting unit. For additional information, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report. We will continue to monitor certain events that impact our operations to determine if an interim assessment of goodwill impairment should be performed prior to the next required testing date of September 30, 2013. Property, Plant and Equipment As a result of our acquisition by CenturyLink, property, plant and equipment was recorded based on its estimated fair value as of the acquisition date. Property, plant and equipment purchased subsequent to our acquisition is recorded at cost. Substantially all other property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less depreciation. Renewals and betterments of plant and equipment are capitalized while repairs, as well as renewals of minor items, are charged to operating expense. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on the straight-line method using class or overall group rates. The group method provides for the recognition of the remaining net investment, less anticipated net salvage value, over the remaining useful life of the assets. This method requires the periodic revision of depreciation rates. Normal retirements of property, plant and equipment are charged against accumulated depreciation, with no gain or loss recognized. Other types of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost and, when sold or retired, a gain or loss is recognized. We depreciate such property on the straight line method over estimated service lives ranging from 3 to 45 years. We perform annual internal reviews to evaluate the reasonableness of the depreciable lives for our property, plant and equipment. Our reviews utilize models that take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history and assumptions about technology evolution and, in certain instances, actuarially determined probabilities to estimate the remaining life of our asset base. Due to rapid changes in technology and the competitive environment, selecting the estimated economic life of telecommunications plant, equipment and software requires a significant amount of judgment. We regularly review data on utilization of equipment, asset retirements and salvage values to determine adjustments to our depreciation rates. The effect of a hypothetical one year increase or decrease in the estimated remaining useful lives of our property, plant and equipment would have decreased depreciation by approximately $230 million or increased depreciation by approximately $330 million, respectively. 50 Table of Contents We review long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, for impairment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable. For measurement purposes, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities, absent a material change in operations. An impairment loss is recognized only if the carrying amount of the asset group is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. Recoverability of the asset group to be held and used is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group. If the asset group's carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. We determine fair values by using a combination of comparable market values and discounted cash flows, as appropriate. During 2012, we did not incur changes in events or circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amounts of our long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, may not be recoverable. As a result, no impairment charge was recorded in 2012. Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits We sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan (referred to as our pension plan) for a substantial portion of our employees. In addition to this tax qualified pension plan, we also maintain a non-qualified pension plan for certain eligible highly compensated employees. We also maintain post-retirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain eligible retirees. Pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits attributed to eligible employees' service during the year, as well as interest on benefit obligations, are accrued currently. Prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses are generally recognized as a component of net periodic expense over one of the following periods: (i) the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately eight years; (ii) the average remaining life of the employees expected to receive benefits of approximately 20 years; or (iii) the term of the collective bargaining agreements, as applicable. Pension and post-retirement benefit expenses are recognized over the period in which the employee renders service and becomes eligible to receive benefits as determined using the projected unit credit method. In computing the pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits expenses and obligations, the most significant assumptions we make include discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, health care trend rates and our evaluation of the legal basis for plan amendments. The plan benefits covered by collective bargaining agreements as negotiated with our employees' unions can also significantly impact the amount of expense, benefit obligations and pension assets that we record. The discount rate is the rate at which we believe we could effectively settle the benefit obligations as of the end of the year. We selected the discount rate based on a cash-flow matching analysis using hypothetical yield curves developed by an actuarial firm from U.S. corporate bonds rated high quality and projections of the future benefit payments that constitute the projected benefit obligation for the plans. This process establishes the uniform discount rate that produces the same present value of the estimated future benefit payments as is generated by discounting each year's benefit payments by a spot rate applicable to that year. The spot rates used in this process are derived from a yield curve created from yields on the 60th to 90th percentile of U.S. high quality bonds. In selecting the discount rate, we also review applicable provisions of generally accepted accounting principles and federal law. The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return we expect to earn on the plans' assets in the future. The rate of return is determined by the strategic allocation of plan assets and the long-term risk and return forecast for each asset class. The forecasts for each asset class are generated primarily from an analysis of the long-term expectations of various third party investment 51 Table of Contents management organizations. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. To compute the expected return on pension and post-retirement benefit plan assets, we apply an expected rate of return to the fair value of the pension plan assets and to the fair value of the post-retirement benefit plan assets adjusted for contribution timing and for projected benefit payments to be made from the plan assets. Annual market volatility for these assets is reflected in subsequent years' net periodic combined benefits expense. Changes in any of the above factors could significantly impact operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and other comprehensive (loss) income in the consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income as well as the value of the liability and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of stockholder's equity on our consolidated balance sheets. The expected return on plan assets is reflected as a reduction to our pension and post-retirement benefit expense. If our assumed expected rates of return for 2012 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $82 million. If our assumed discount rates for 2012 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $24 million and our projected benefit obligation would have increased by approximately $1 billion. An increase of 100 basis points in the initial healthcare cost trend rate would have increased our post-retirement benefit expense by $3 million and increased our projected post-retirement benefit obligation by $74 million. The trusts for the pension and post-retirement benefits plans hold investments in equities, fixed income, real estate and other assets such as private equity assets. The assets held by these trusts are reflected at estimated fair value as of December 31, 2012. For additional information on our trust investments, see Note 8Employee Benefits to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Loss Contingencies and Litigation Reserves We are involved in several material legal proceedings, as described in more detail in "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of this report. We assess potential losses in relation to these and other pending or threatened tax and legal matters. For matters not related to income taxes, if a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we recognize an expense for the estimated loss. To the extent these estimates are more or less than the actual liability resulting from the resolution of these matters, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. If the differences are material, our consolidated financial statements could be materially impacted. If a loss is considered reasonably possible, we disclose the estimate of the potential loss if material but we do not recognize any expense for the potential loss. For matters related to income taxes, if we determine that the impact of an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority, then we recognize a benefit for the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained. No portion of an uncertain tax position will be recognized if the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Though the validity of any tax position is a matter of tax law, the body of statutory, regulatory and interpretive guidance on the application of the law is complex and often ambiguous. Because of this, whether a tax position will ultimately be sustained may be uncertain. The overall tax liability recorded for uncertain tax positions as of the successor date of December 31, 2012 and the successor date of December 31, 2011, considers the anticipated utilization of any applicable tax credits and net operating losses ("NOLs"). To the extent we have recorded tax liabilities that are more or less than the actual liability that ultimately results from the resolution of an uncertain tax position, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. Also, as we become aware of new interpretations of relevant tax laws and as we 52 Table of Contents discuss our interpretations with taxing authorities, we may in the future change our assessments of the sustainability of an uncertain tax position or of the amounts that may be sustained upon audit. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made in accounting for these matters are reasonable, based on information currently available. However, as our assessments change and as uncertain tax positions are resolved, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. Affiliates Transactions We record intercompany charges at the amounts billed to us by our affiliates. Regulatory rules require certain expenses to be recorded at market price or fully distributed cost. Our compliance with regulations is subject to review by regulators. Adjustments to intercompany charges that result from these reviews are recorded in the period they become known. Because of the significance of the services we provide to our affiliates and our other affiliates transactions, the results of operations, financial position and cash flows presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations, financial position and cash flows we would have achieved had we operated as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented. We provide to our affiliates telecommunications services that we also provide to external customers. In addition, we provide to our affiliates computer system development and support services. We also purchase services from our affiliates including telecommunications services and marketing and employee-related support services. In the normal course of business, we transfer assets and liabilities to and from CenturyLink and its affiliates based on carrying value. We have recorded $38 million of non-cash dividends associated with asset transfers to CenturyLink during the successor year ended December 31, 2012. Income Taxes Since CenturyLink's acquisition of us on April 1, 2011, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. Under CenturyLink's tax allocation policy, CenturyLink treats our consolidated results as if we were a separate taxpayer. The policy requires us to settle our tax liabilities through a change in our general intercompany obligation based upon our separate return taxable income, after the utilization of our NOL carryforward. We are also included in the combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same payment and allocation policy applies. Our reported deferred tax assets and liabilities are primarily determined as a result of the application of the separate return allocation method and therefore the settlement of these amounts is dependent upon our parent, CenturyLink, rather than tax authorities. CenturyLink can and has utilized some of our NOLs in excess of the amount that we have been able to utilize on a separate return basis. As a result, the NOL carryforward of CenturyLink is less than the NOL carryforward included in our financial statements. CenturyLink does have the right to change their policy regarding settlement of these assets and liabilities at any time. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts for tax consequences deferred to future periods. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflecting future tax consequences attributable to tax NOLs, tax credit carryforwards and differences between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and the tax bases of those assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are computed using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred taxes often involves the exercise of considerable judgment related to the realization of tax basis. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our assessment that tax positions taken and the resulting tax basis are more likely than not to be sustained if they are audited 53 Table of Contents by taxing authorities. Also, assessing tax rates that we expect to apply and determining the years when the temporary differences are expected to affect taxable income requires judgment about the future apportionment of our income among the states in which we operate. Any changes in our practices or judgments involved in the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities as described above. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred income tax assets to amounts that we believe are more likely than not to be recovered. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine whether adjustments to our valuation allowance are appropriate. In making this evaluation, we rely on our recent history of pre-tax earnings, estimated timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets and our forecasts of future earnings, the latter two of which involve the exercise of significant judgment. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, we established a valuation allowance of $260 million, primarily related to state NOLs and state credits, as it is more likely than not that this amount will not be utilized prior to expiration. If forecasts of future earnings and the nature and estimated timing of future deductions and benefits change in the future, we may determine that a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets is appropriate, which could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. See Note 12Income Taxes for additional information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We are a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink. As such, factors relating to, or affecting, CenturyLink's liquidity and capital resources could have material impacts on us, including impacts on our credit ratings, our access to capital markets and changes in the financial market's perception of us. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements between certain of its subsidiaries that include lines of credit, affiliate obligations, capital contributions and dividends. As part of these cash management arrangements, affiliates provide lines of credit to certain other affiliates. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit and intercompany obligations vary from time to time. Under these arrangements, the majority of our cash balance is advanced on a daily basis to CenturyLink. From time to time we may declare and pay dividends to CenturyLink, using cash repaid to us under these advances, which has the net effect of reducing the amount of these advances. Given our upgrade to an investment grade rating on April 1, 2011 by one of the rating agencies, our debt covenants do not currently limit the amount of dividends we can pay to CenturyLink. Given our cash management arrangement with CenturyLink and the resulting amounts due to us from CenturyLink, a significant component of our liquidity is dependent upon CenturyLink's ability to repay its obligation to us. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $2.3 billion, reflecting current liabilities of $4.9 billion and current assets of $2.6 billion, compared to a working capital deficit of $280 million as of the successor date of December 31, 2011. The change in our working capital position is primarily due to the establishment of a demand notes payableaffiliate upon the redemption of certain of our bonds during 2012. The $2 billion increase in notes payableaffiliate and the $739 million increase in current maturities of long-term debt, partially offset reductions in the amounts owed to us by our affiliates and our accounts payable and dividends payable balances. Revolving Promissory Note During 2012, we entered into a revolving promissory note with an affiliate of CenturyLink that provides us with a funding commitment with an aggregate principle amount available to $3.0 billion through June 30, 2022, of which $2.0 billion was outstanding as of the successor date of December 31, 2012. The revolving promissory note is due on demand and ranked equally to our Senior Notes. Interest is accrued on the outstanding balance using a weighted average per annum interest rate of 54 Table of Contents CenturyLink's outstanding borrowings for the interest period. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, the weighted average interest rate was 6.706%. This revolving promissory note is reflected on our consolidated balance sheets under "Notes payableaffiliate". Debt and Other Financing Arrangements CenturyLink has a revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") maturing April 2017 that allows CenturyLink to borrow up to $2 billion including $400 million of letter of credit capacity, for the general corporate purposes of itself and its subsidiaries. CenturyLink also maintains a separate letter of credit arrangement with a financial institution amounting to $160 million to which we have access. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, CenturyLink had approximately $1.2 billion and $40 million available for future use under the Credit Facility and the separate letter of credit arrangement, respectively. QCII and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Qwest Services Corporation ("QSC"), are guarantors of the Credit Facility. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, our long-term debt (including current maturities and excluding notes payable to affiliate discussed in "Revolving Promissory Note") totaled $9.628 billion, as compared to $12.296 billion outstanding for the successor date of December 31, 2011. The decrease in our long-term debt of $2.7 billion was primarily due to the repayment of outstanding debt of $3.3 billion, offset by new borrowings of $896 million, less underwriting costs and other related debt retirement costs. A substantial portion of the debt repayments were funded by our revolving promissory note. Approximately $750 million of QC floating rate senior notes will mature on June 15, 2013, which we expect to refinance. Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time through our QC subsidiary to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned QC by the three major credit rating agencies, among other factors. We determined we were in compliance with all provisions and covenants of our debt agreements as of the successor date of December 31, 2012. See Note 4Long-Term Debt to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information about our long-term debt. Following CenturyLink's announcement on February 13, 2013 of changes in their capital allocation plans, one credit agency downgraded CenturyLink's and QC's debt credit ratings and another indicated that it has placed CenturyLink's, QCII's and QC's debt credit ratings under review for a downgrade. As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior unsecured debt of QCII and QC were as follows: Standard & Poor's BB BBB- Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Baa3 (under review for downgrade) Baa3 (under review for downgrade) Fitch Ratings BB+ BBB- Additional downgrades of CenturyLink's senior unsecured debt ratings could under certain circumstances incrementally increase the cost of CenturyLink's borrowing under the Credit Facility, which could indirectly impact us. In addition, the recent actions of the credit agencies, and any additional downgrades in the future, could impact CenturyLink's, QCII's and QC's access to debt capital or further raise CenturyLink's, QCII's and QC's borrowing costs. See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of this report. 55 Table of Contents Future Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our estimated future contractual obligations as of the successor date of December 31, 2012: Long-term debt, including current maturities and capital lease obligations $ 856 687 134 243 503 7,002 9,425 Interest on long-term debt and capital leases (1) 624 596 557 539 513 8,501 11,330 Note payableaffiliate 2,023 2,023 Interest on note payableaffiliate 136 136 Operating leases 177 149 124 102 94 575 1,221 Purchase commitments (2) 66 52 47 41 40 94 340 Post-retirement benefit obligation 74 73 72 70 68 1,100 1,457 Non-qualified pension obligations 2 2 2 2 2 7 17 Other 3 1 2 2 4 97 109 Total future contractual obligations (3) $ 3,961 1,560 938 999 1,224 17,376 26,058 (1) Actual interest paid in all years may differ due to future refinancing of debt. Interest on our floating rate debt was calculated for all years using the rates effective at December 31, 2012. (2) We have various long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments for advertising and promotion services, including advertising and marketing at sports arenas and other venues and events. We also have service related commitments with various vendors for data processing, technical and software support services. Future payments under certain service contracts will vary depending on our actual usage. In the table above we estimated payments for these service contracts based on the level of services we expect to receive. (3) The table is limited to contractual obligations only and does not include: contingent liabilities; our open purchase orders as of the successor date of December 31, 2012. These purchase orders are generally recorded at fair value, and are generally cancelable without penalty; other long-term liabilities, such as accruals for legal matters and other taxes that are not contractual obligations by nature. We cannot determine with any degree of reliability the years in which these liabilities might ultimately settle; cash funding requirements for qualified pension benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plans are paid through trusts. Cash funding requirements for these trusts are not included in this table as we are not able to reliably estimate required contributions to the trusts. Our funding projections are discussed further below; certain post-retirement benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Not all of our post-retirement benefit obligation amount is a contractual obligation and only the portion that we believe is a contractual obligation is reported in the table. See additional information on our benefits plans in Note 8Employee Benefits to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report; contract termination fees. These fees are non-recurring payments, the timing and payment of which, if any, is uncertain. In the ordinary course of business and to optimize our cost structure, we enter into contracts with terms greater than one year to use the network facilities of other carriers and to purchase other goods and services. Our contracts to use other carriers' network facilities generally have no minimum volume requirements and are based on an interrelationship of volumes and discounted rates. Assuming we terminate these contracts in 2013, the contract termination fees would be approximately $495 million. Under the same assumption, termination fees for these contracts to purchase goods and services would be $24 million. In the normal course of business, we do not believe payment of these fees is likely; and 56 Table of Contents potential indemnification obligations to counterparties in certain agreements entered into in the normal course of business. The nature and terms of these arrangements vary. Historically, we have not incurred significant costs related to performance under these types of arrangements. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth, operating, productivity, expense or service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services primarily our broadband services. . In particular, we expect to continue to focus on expanding our fiber infrastructure, including installations of "fiber to the tower," which is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. For more information on capital spending, see Items 1 and 1A of this report. CenturyLink has agreed to accept approximately $35 million of the $90 million available to it from Phase 1 of the Federal Communications Commission's ("FCC") Connect America Fund ("CAF") established by Congress to help telecommunications carriers defray the cost of providing broadband access to remote customers. Of the $35 million, QC will receive approximately $30 million and intends to use the funds to deploy broadband service for up to 39,000 homes in unserved rural areas principally in Colorado, Minnesota, New Mexico and Washington. CenturyLink has determined that restrictions on the use of these funds have made acceptance of additional CAF funds uneconomical. CenturyLink has, however, filed with the FCC a waiver application, which, if granted, would allow QC to deploy broadband services with CAF funds to approximately 56,000 more homes in high-cost unserved areas in its markets. We received approximately $27.5 million in CAF funds during 2012 and received approximately $2.5 million in January 2013. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. When we became a wholly owned subsidiary of CenturyLink on April 1, 2011, we remeasured our plans and recognized liabilities for the accounting unfunded status of pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations of $490 million and $2.5 billion, respectively. See Note 8Employee Benefits to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust that holds all plan assets. We did not make any cash contributions to our qualified pension plans during the successor year ended December 31, 2012 and we currently do not expect to make a plan contribution in 2013 and 2014. However, the actual amount of required plan contributions in 2014 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. A trust holds assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, the fair value of the trust assets was $572 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid 57 Table of Contents assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately four years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trust as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected four year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on changes in projected health care costs, returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimated annual long-term rate of return on the pension and post-retirement plans trust assets is 7.5% based on the assets currently held; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. Historical Information The following table summarizes cash flow activities: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,806 2,152 777 2,929 3,367 (4)% (13)% Net cash used in investing activities (1,214 ) (1,868 ) (408 ) (2,276 ) (1,488 ) (47)% 53% Net cash used in financing activities (1,553 ) (660 ) (317 ) (977 ) (3,913 ) 59% (75)% Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $123 million in the successor year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to reductions in accounts payable and accounts payableaffiliate offset by an increase in cash payments received from customers. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $438 million in the combined year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to a decrease in cash payments received from customers as a result of decreased revenues, which is directly related to the decline in sales for the same period. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $1.1 billion in the successor year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to a reduction in affiliate loans. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $788 million in the combined year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to increases in short-term affiliate loans resulting from the majority of our cash balance being transferred on a daily basis to CenturyLink and a reduction in property, plant and equipment purchases. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $576 million in the successor year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to an increase in net debt paydowns and an increase in dividends paid partially offset by the establishment of notes payable affiliates. Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $2.9 billion in the combined year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the predecessor year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to a decrease in net debt paydowns of $2.1 billion, and a $640 million settlement of embedded option in convertible debt in 2010. On October 26, 2012, QCII redeemed all $550 million of its 8.00% Notes due 2015 using funds borrowed under CenturyLink's Credit Facility. This redemption resulted in a gain of $15 million. 58 Table of Contents On July 20, 2012, QC redeemed all $484 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2023, which resulted in an immaterial loss. On June 25, 2012, QC issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $387 million. The Notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after July 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest. On May 17, 2012, QCII redeemed $500 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. On April 18, 2012, QC completed a cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $811 million of 8.375% Notes due 2016 and its $400 million of 7.625% Notes due 2015. With respect to its 8.375% Notes due 2016, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $575 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 71%, for $722 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.625% Notes due 2015, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $308 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 77%, for $369 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of these tender offers resulted in a loss of $46 million. In connection with consummating these tender offers, QC borrowed from a CenturyLink affiliate approximately $580 million under a revolving promissory note, payable upon demand. The promissory note is unsecured and is ranked equally to QC's senior notes. On April 2, 2012, QC issued $525 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $508 million. The Notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after April 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest. On March 1, 2012, QCII redeemed $800 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. Certain Matters Related to CenturyLink's Acquisition of Us Effective after CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we are included in the consolidated federal income tax return of CenturyLink. CenturyLink is in the process of developing a post-acquisition intercompany agreement for allocation of consolidated income tax liabilities. We will continue to account for income tax expense on a stand-alone basis. We are also included in certain combined state tax returns filed by CenturyLink and the same accounting will apply. Through the successor date of December 31, 2012, we have paid certain costs that were associated with CenturyLink's acquisition of us. These costs include compensation costs comprised of retention bonuses and severance. The final amounts and timing of the compensation costs to be paid is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that continue to be made as part of the continuing integration. These amounts may be material. In accounting for the CenturyLink's acquisition of us, we recorded our debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of our debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million, which we recorded as a premium. 59 Table of Contents The table below summarizes the portions of this premium recognized as a reduction to interest expense or extinguished during the periods indicated: Amortized $ 86 154 240 Extinguished (1) 177 58 235 Total premiums recognized $ 263 212 475 (1) See "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements" for more information. The remaining premium of $218 million as of the successor date of December 31, 2012 will reduce interest expense in future periods, unless otherwise extinguished. Other Matters We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. See Note 16Commitment and Contingencies for the current status of such legal proceedings. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and implements strategies to manage the exposure. As of the successor date of December 31, 2012, we have approximately $9.37 billion (excluding capital lease and other obligations) of long-term debt outstanding, 92% of which bears interest at fixed rates and is therefore not exposed to interest rate risk. We also held $750 million of floating rate debt exposed to changes in LIBOR. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in LIBOR relative to this debt would decrease our annual pre-tax earnings by $8 million. Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those presented above if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed as of the successor date of December 31, 2012. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging or other similar 60 Table of Contents activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements, (ii) disclosed in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, or in the Future Contractual Obligations table included in this Item 7 above or (iii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above.