Managements Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation. Environmental Laws Our operations are not subject to any Environmental Laws. Penny Stock Rules The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the Nasdaq system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). A purchaser is purchasing penny stock which limits the ability to sell the stock. The shares offered by this Report constitute penny stock under the Securities and Exchange Act. The shares will remain penny stocks for the foreseeable future. The classification of penny stock makes it more difficult for a broker-dealer to sell the stock into a secondary market, which makes it more difficult for a purchaser to liquidate his/her investment. Any broker-dealer engaged by the purchaser for the purpose of selling his or her shares in us will be subject to Rules 15g-1 through 15g-10 of the Securities and Exchange Act. Rather than creating a need to comply with those rules, some broker-dealers will refuse to attempt to sell penny stock. 5 The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document, which: Contains a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stock in both Public offerings and secondary trading; Contains a description of the brokers or dealers duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to a violation of such duties or other requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended; - Contains a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including bid and ask price for the penny stock and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask price; - Contains a toll-free number for inquiries on disciplinary actions; - Defines significant terms in the disclosure document or in the conduct of trading penny stocks; and - Contains such other information and is in such form (including language, type, size and format) as the Securities and Exchange Commission shall require by rule or regulation. The broker-dealer also must provide, prior to effecting any transaction in a penny stock, to the customer: - The bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; - The compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction; - The number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and - Monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customers account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchasers written acknowledgement of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement, a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks, and a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement. These disclosure requirements will have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for our stock because it will be subject to these penny stock rules. Therefore, stockholders may have difficulty selling their securities. Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is highly speculative and subject to numerous and substantial risks. These risks include those set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Readers are encouraged to review these risks carefully before making any investment decision. AN INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY IS HIGHLY SPECULATIVE IN NATURE AND INVOLVES AN EXTREMELY HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. There may be conflicts of interest between our management and our non-management stockholders. Conflicts of interest create the risk that management may have an incentive to act adversely to the interests of other investors. A conflict of interest may arise between our managements personal pecuniary interest and its fiduciary duty to our stockholders. Further, our managements own pecuniary interest may at some point compromise its fiduciary duty to our stockholders. In addition, our officers and directors are currently involved with other blank check companies and conflicts in the pursuit of business combinations with such other blank check companies with which they and other members of our management are, and may be the future be, affiliated with may arise. If we and the other blank check companies that our officers and directors are affiliated with desire to take advantage of the same opportunity, then those officers and directors that are affiliated with both companies would abstain from voting upon the opportunity. In the event of identical officers and directors, the officers and directors will arbitrarily determine the company that will be entitled to proceed with the proposed transaction. 6 OUR BUSINESS IS DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE BECAUSE WE HAVE NO OPERATING HISTORY. As we have no operating history or revenue and only minimal assets, there is a risk that we will be unable to continue as a going concern and consummate a business combination. We have had no recent operating history nor any revenues or earnings from operations since inception. We have no significant assets or financial resources. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in our incurring a net operating loss that will increase continuously until we can consummate a business combination with a profitable business opportunity. We cannot assure you that we can identify a suitable business opportunity and consummate a business combination. THERE IS COMPETITION FOR THOSE PRIVATE COMPANIES SUITABLE FOR A MERGER TRANSACTION OF THE TYPE CONTEMPLATED BY MANAGEMENT. We are in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We are and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with, joint ventures with and acquisitions of small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination. FUTURE SUCCESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE ABILITY OF MANAGEMENT TO LOCATE AND ATTRACT A SUITABLE ACQUISITION. The nature of our operations is highly speculative and there is a consequent risk of loss of your investment. The success of our plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting that criterion. In the event we complete a business combination, the success of our operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm and numerous other factors beyond our control. THE COMPANY HAS NO EXISTING AGREEMENT FOR A BUSINESS COMBINATION OR OTHER TRANSACTION. We have no arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a merger with, joint venture with or acquisition of, a private or public entity. No assurances can be given that we will successfully identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities or that we will conclude a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on favorable terms, and there is consequently a risk that funds allocated to the purchase of our shares will not be invested in a company with active business operations. MANAGEMENT INTENDS TO DEVOTE ONLY A LIMITED AMOUNT OF TIME TO SEEKING A TARGET COMPANY WHICH MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY A SUITABLE ACQUISITION CANDIDATE. While seeking a business combination, management anticipates devoting no more than a few hours per week to the Companys affairs. Our officers have not entered into written employment agreements with us and are not expected to do so in the foreseeable future. This limited commitment may adversely impact our ability to identify and consummate a successful business combination. THE TIME AND COST OF PREPARING A PRIVATE COMPANY TO BECOME A PUBLIC REPORTING COMPANY MAY PRECLUDE US FROM ENTERING INTO A MERGER OR ACQUISITION WITH THE MOST ATTRACTIVE PRIVATE COMPANIES. Target companies that fail to comply with SEC reporting requirements may delay or preclude acquisition. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act require reporting companies to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the company acquired, covering one, two, or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare these statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an acquisition. Otherwise suitable acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may be inappropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. 7 THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO FURTHER GOVERNMENT REGULATION WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Although we will be subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, management believes we will not be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), since we will not be engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. If we engage in business combinations which result in our holding passive investment interests in a number of entities, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If so, we would be required to register as an investment company and could be expected to incur significant registration and compliance costs. We have obtained no formal determination from the Securities and Exchange Commission as to our status under the Investment Company Act and, consequently, violation of the Act could subject us to material adverse consequences. ANY POTENTIAL ACQUISITION OR MERGER WITH A FOREIGN COMPANY MAY SUBJECT US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS. If we enter into a business combination with a foreign concern, we will be subject to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, regulatory problems, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders and cultural and language differences. Foreign economies may differ favorably or unfavorably from the United States economy in growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, market development, rate of savings, and capital investment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments positions, and in other respects. THERE IS CURRENTLY NO TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. Outstanding shares of our Common Stock cannot be offered, sold, pledged or otherwise transferred unless subsequently registered pursuant to, or exempt from registration under, the Securities Act and any other applicable federal or state securities laws or regulations. These restrictions will limit the ability of our stockholders to liquidate their investment. OUR BUSINESS WILL HAVE NO REVENUES UNLESS AND UNTIL WE MERGE WITH OR ACQUIRE AN OPERATING BUSINESS. We are a development stage company and have had no revenues from operations. We may not realize any revenues unless and until we successfully merge with or acquire an operating business. THE COMPANY INTENDS TO ISSUE MORE SHARES IN A MERGER OR ACQUISITION, WHICH WILL RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL DILUTION. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of a maximum of 100,000,000 shares of common stock and a maximum of 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Any merger or acquisition effected by us may result in the issuance of additional securities without stockholder approval and may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of our common stock held by our then existing stockholders. Moreover, the common stock issued in any such merger or acquisition transaction may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arms-length basis by our management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of common stock held by our then existing stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without stockholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of our stockholders will occur and the rights of the holders of Common Stock might be materially adversely affected. OUR STOCKHOLDER MAY ENGAGE IN A TRANSACTION TO CAUSE THE COMPANY TO REPURCHASE ITS SHARES OF COMMON STOCK. In order to provide an interest in the Company to a third party, our stockholder may choose to cause us to sell our securities to third parties, with the proceeds of such sale being utilized by us to repurchase shares of common stock held by our sole stockholder. As a result of such transaction, our management, sole stockholder and Board of Directors may change. THE COMPANY HAS CONDUCTED NO MARKET RESEARCH OR IDENTIFICATION OF BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES, WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY A BUSINESS TO MERGE WITH OR ACQUIRE. We have neither conducted nor have others made available to us results of market research concerning prospective business opportunities. Therefore, we have no assurances that market demand exists for a merger or acquisition as contemplated by us. Our management has not identified any specific business combination or other transactions for formal evaluation by us, such that it may be expected that any such target business or transaction will present such a level of risk that conventional private or public offerings of securities or conventional bank financing will not be available. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire a business opportunity on terms favorable to us. Decisions as to which business opportunity to participate in will be unilaterally made by our management, which may act without the consent, vote or approval of our stockholders. 8 BECAUSE WE MAY SEEK TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION THROUGH A REVERSE MERGER, FOLLOWING SUCH A TRANSACTION WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT THE ATTENTION OF MAJOR BROKERAGE FIRMS. Additional risks may exist since we will assist a privately held business to become public through a reverse merger. Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of our Company since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary offerings on behalf of our post-merger company in the future. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT FOLLOWING A BUSINESS COMBINATION WITH AN OPERATING BUSINESS; OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE LISTED ON NASDAQ OR ANY OTHER SECURITIES EXCHANGE. Following a business combination, we may seek the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ or the American Stock Exchange. However, we cannot assure you that following such a transaction, we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of either of those or any other stock exchange, or that we will be able to maintain a listing of our common stock on either of those or any other stock exchange. After completing a business combination, until our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ or another stock exchange, we expect that our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets, where our stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to an SEC rule that, if it failed to meet the criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital following a business combination. THERE IS NO PUBLIC MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK, NOR HAVE WE EVER PAID DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK. There is no public trading market for our common stock and none is expected to develop in the foreseeable future unless and until we complete a business combination with an operating business and such business files a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Additionally, we have never paid dividends on our Common Stock and do not presently intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any funds available for payment of dividends will be re-invested into the Company to further its business strategy. AUTHORIZATION OF PREFERRED STOCK. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by its Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of its authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future. CONTROL BY MANAGEMENT. Management currently owns approximately 100% of all the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company. Consequently, management has the ability to influence control of our operations and, acting together, will have the ability to influence or control substantially all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including: Election of the board of directors; Removal of any directors; Amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and Adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change in control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination. 9 These stockholders will thus have substantial influence over our management and affairs and other stockholders of the Company possess no practical ability to remove management or effect the operations of the business of the Company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership by itself may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for the common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Description of Properties The Company neither rents nor owns any properties. The Company currently has no policy with respect to investments or interests in real estate, real estate mortgages or securities of, or interests in, persons primarily engaged in real estate activities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The Company is not party to any legal proceedings nor is it aware of any investigation, claim or demand made on the Company that may reasonably result in any legal proceedings. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities There is no active market for our Common Stock. Currently, there is no active trading market for our Common Stock. Upon entering into a merger with a private operating company, we will then immediately seek to engage a broker-dealer/market maker in order for them to submit an application, on behalf of the Company, to make a market for our Common Stock shares on the OTC Bulletin Board. There can be no assurance, however, that the application will be accepted or that any trading market will ever develop or be maintained on the OTC Bulletin Board. Any trading market that may develop in the future for our Common Stock will most likely be very volatile and numerous factors beyond our control may have a significant effect on the market. Only companies that report their current financial information to the SEC may have their securities included on the OTC Bulletin Board. Therefore, only upon the effective date of this Report will our Common Stock become eligible to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. In the event that we lose our status as a "reporting issuer," any future quotation of our Common Stock on the OTC Bulletin Board may be jeopardized. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than $5.00, other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or quotation system. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, that: (a) contains a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading; (b) contains a description of the broker's or dealer's duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to a violation to such duties or other requirements of Securities' laws; (c) contains a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including bid and ask prices for penny stocks and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask price; (d) contains a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions; (e) defines significant terms in the disclosure document or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and (f) contains such other information and is in such form, including language, type, size and format, as the Securities and Exchange Commission shall require by rule or regulation. The broker-dealer also must provide, prior to effecting any transaction in a penny stock, the customer with: (a) bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; (b) the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction; (c) the number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and (d) monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement, a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks, and a signed and dated copy of a suitably written statement. 10 These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for our stock if it becomes subject to these penny stock rules. Therefore, if our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules, stockholders may have difficulty selling those securities. Common Stock The Company is authorized by its Certificate of Incorporation to issue an aggregate of 110,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which 100,000,000 are shares of Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Common Stock). As of the date hereof, 2,600,000 shares of Common Stock are issued and outstanding, and there are two holders of record of the Common Stock. The Common Stock is not listed on a publicly-traded market or exchange. Preferred Stock Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Preferred Stock). The Company has not yet issued any of its preferred stock. Dividend Policy The Company has not declared or paid any cash dividends on its common stock and does not intend to declare or pay any cash dividend in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends, if any, is within the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on the Companys earnings, if any, its capital requirements and financial condition and such other factors as the Board of Directors may consider. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities The Company issued a total of 100,000 shares of Common Stock on October 27, 2005, to Getting You There, LLC, an entity owned by Virginia K. Sourlis, then the sole officer and director of the Company, for aggregate cash consideration of $100. The Company sold these shares of Common Stock under the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The purchaser represented in writing that it acquired the securities for its own account. A legend was placed on the stock certificate stating that the securities have not been registered under the Securities Act and cannot be sold or otherwise transferred without an effective registration or an exemption therefrom, but may not be sold pursuant to the exemptions provided by Section 4(1) of the Securities Act or Rule 144 under the Securities Act, in accordance with the letter from Richard K. Wulff, Chief of the Office of Small Business Policy of the Securities and Exchange Commissions Division of Corporation Finance, to Ken Worm of NASD Regulation, Inc., dated January 21, 2000. On June 9, 2011, the Company issued 1,000,000 shares of common stock pursuant to a stock purchase agreement for consideration of $100. On August 8, 2011, the Company issued 1,500,000 shares of common stock pursuant to a stock purchase agreement for consideration of $150. The Company issued these shares of Common Stock under the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, as the issuance did not involve a public sale of securities. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Share Purchase Warrants We have not issued and do not have outstanding any warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. Options We have not issued and do not have outstanding any options to purchase shares of our Common Stock Convertible Securities We have not issued and do not have outstanding any securities convertible into shares of our Common Stock or any rights convertible or exchangeable into shares of our Common Stock. 11 EXPERTS Joseph M. Patricola, Esq. of The Sourlis Law Firm has assisted us in the preparation of this Report and will provide counsel with respect to other legal matters concerning the registration and offering of the Common Stock. W.T. Uniack & Co. CPAs P.C., the Companys independent registered accounting firm, has audited our financial statements included in this Report and report to the extent and for the periods set forth in their audit report. W.T. Uniack & Co. CPAs P.C. has presented its report with respect to our audited financial statements. DISCLOSURE OF COMMISSION POSITION OF INDEMNIFICATION FOR SECURITIES ACT LIABILITIES Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide no director shall be liable to the corporation or any of its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except with respect to (1) a breach of the directors duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (2) acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (3) liability which may be specifically defined by law or (4) a transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit, it being the intention of the foregoing provision to eliminate the liability of the corporations directors to the corporation or its stockholders to the fullest extent permitted by law. The corporation shall indemnify to the fullest extent permitted by law each person that such law grants the corporation the power to indemnify. We have been advised that, in the opinion of the SEC, indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act, and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification against such liabilities is asserted by one of our directors, officers, or controlling persons in connection with the securities being registered, we will, unless in the opinion of our legal counsel, submit the question of whether such indemnification is against public policy to a court of appropriate jurisdiction. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not applicable. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion together with "Selected Historical Financial Data" and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those we currently anticipate as a result of many factors, including the factors we describe under "Risk Factors," "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and elsewhere in this report. Forward Looking Statements Some of the information in this section contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate" and "continue," or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: discuss our future expectations; contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition; and state other "forward-looking" information. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict or over which we have no control. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors," "Business" and elsewhere in this Report. See "Risk Factors." Unless stated otherwise, the words we, us, our, the Company or Grace in this Report collectively refers to the Company, Grace 2, Inc. 12 Status as a Shell Company As of June 20, 2010, because we have nominal operations and minimal assets, we are considered to be a shell company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Because the Company is considered a shell company, the securities sold in previous offerings can only be resold through registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act); Section 4(1) of the Securities Act, if available, for non-affiliates; or by meeting the conditions of Rule 144(i) of the Securities Act. Therefore, an investment in our Company should be considered extremely risky and an investment suitable only for those who can afford to lose the entirety of their investment. Plan of Operation The Company has not realized any revenues from operations since inception, and its plan of operation for the next twelve months is to locate a suitable acquisition or merger candidate and consummate a business combination. The Company may need additional cash advances from its stockholder or loans from other parties to pay for operating expenses until the Company consummates a merger or business combination with a privately-held operating company. Although it is currently anticipated that the Company can satisfy its cash requirements with additional cash advances or loans from other parties, if needed, for at least the next twelve months, the Company can provide no assurance that it can continue to satisfy its cash requirements for such period. Since our formation on October 27, 2005, our purpose has been to effect a business combination with an operating business which we believe has significant growth potential. We are currently considered to be a blank check company in as much as we have no specific business plans, no operations, revenues or employees. We currently have no definitive agreements or understanding with any prospective business combination candidates and have not targeted any business for investigation and evaluation nor are there any assurances that we will find a suitable business with which to combine. The implementation of our business objectives is wholly contingent upon a business combination and/or the successful sale of securities in the company. As a result of our limited resources, we expect to effect only a single business combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our success will be entirely dependent upon the future performance of a single business. Unlike certain entities that have the resources to consummate several business combinations or entities operating in multiple industries or multiple segments of a single industry, we will not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. A target business may be dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services, in which case there will be an even higher risk that the target business will not prove to be commercially viable. Our officers and directors are only required to devote a very limited portion of their time to our affairs on a part-time or as-needed basis. We expect to use outside consultants, advisors, attorneys and accountants as necessary, none of which will be hired on a retainer basis. We do not anticipate hiring any full-time employees so long as we are seeking and evaluating business opportunities. We expect our present management to play no managerial role in the Company following a merger or business combination. Although we intend to scrutinize closely the management of a prospective target business in connection with our evaluation of a business combination with a target business, our assessment of management may be incorrect. We cannot assure you that we will find a suitable business with which to combine. On July 7, 2008 (the Effective Date), pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement (the Agreement), Broad Street Ventures, LLC, a limited liability company formed in the State of Colorado (BSV) purchased a total of 96,000 shares of the issued and outstanding common stock of Grace 2, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), from Getting You There, LLC, the sole shareholder of the Company (GYT). The total of 96,000 shares represents 96% of the shares of outstanding common stock of the Company (the Acquisition). Also, as part of the Acquisition and pursuant to the Agreement, the following changes to the Companys directors and officers occurred: Virginia K. Sourlis resigned as the Companys President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Sole Director effective July 18, 2008. As of July 18 2008, Douglas Dyer was appointed as the Companys President and Sole Director. On October 10, 2008, Broad Street Ventures, LLC, (BSV) the majority shareholder of the Company entered into a convertible promissory note (the Note) with Getting You There, LLC, (GYT) the former sole stockholder of the Company for the remaining balance of $10,000 that is owed on the purchase of the 96,000 common shares of the Company that was fully disclosed in the Form 8-K filed on July 7, 2008. 13 The Note provides for a term of six (6) months at an interest rate of 8% per annum. The maturity date of the Note was April 10, 2009. At any time on or prior to the maturity date, each dollar amount of the unpaid principal amount may be converted into one (1) duly authorized, validly-issued, fully-paid and non-assessable share of common stock of the Company. Any interest owed with respect thereto shall be paid in cash. As of May 31, 2011, all amounts owed on the convertible promissory note have been paid in full satisfaction. Results of Operations General. The Company has not conducted any active operations since inception, except for its efforts to locate a suitable acquisition or merger transaction. No revenue has been generated by the Company during such period, and it is unlikely the Company will have any revenues unless it is able to effect an acquisition of or merger with another operating company, of which there can be no assurance. Revenues . For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the period from October 27, 2005 (Inception) to May 31, 2011, the Company had no activities that produced revenues from operations. Assets . At May 31, 2011, the Company had $0 in assets, compared to $0 at May 31, 2010. Net Loss . For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had a net loss of $83,650 and $18,200, respectively. From the Companys date of inception (October 27, 2005) to May 31, 2011, the Company had net losses of $132,219. These losses were mostly due to legal, accounting, audit and other professional service fees incurred in relation to the filing of the Companys Registration Statement on Form 10-SB filed on June 19, 2006 and annual and quarterly reports filed since the effectiveness of such registration statement. Liabilities. At May 31, 2011, the Company had $122,425 in liabilities, consisting of Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and amounts Due Shareholder, compared to $38,775 at May 31, 2010. The Accounts Payable consists of legal and accounting fees accrued for the preparation and filing the Registration Statement on Form 10-SB filed on June 19, 2006 and annual and quarterly reports filed since the effectiveness of such registration statement. General and Administrative Expenses . For the fiscal years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had general and administrative expenses of $83,650 and $18,200 respectively. From the Companys date of inception (October 27, 2005) to May 31, 2011, the Company had general and administrative expenses of $132,219. These expenses were due to legal, accounting, audit and other professional service fees incurred in relation to the filing of the Companys Registration Statement on Form 10-SB filed on June 19, 2006 and annual and quarterly reports filed since the effectiveness of such registration statement. Liquidity and Capital Resources At May 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had total assets equal to $0 and $0, respectively. The Companys current liabilities at May 31, 2011 and 2010 totaled $122,425 and $38,775, respectively, comprised accounts payable. The following is a summary of the Company's cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities: For the Cumulative Period from October 27, 2005 (Inception) to May 31, 2011 Operating activities $ (132,219 ) Investing activities - Financing activities $ 44,219 Net effect on cash $ - The Company has nominal assets and has generated no revenues since inception. The Company is also dependent upon the receipt of capital investment or other financing to fund its ongoing operations and to execute its business plan of seeking a combination with a private operating company. If continued funding and capital resources are unavailable at reasonable terms, the Company may not be able to implement its plan of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 14 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AS OF May 31, 2011 There are no contractual obligations on the Companys Balance sheet as of May 31, 2011. Payment due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Long-Term Debt Obligations $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Capital Lease Obligations $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Operating Lease Obligations $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Purchase Obligations $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Other Long-Term Liabilities Reflected on the Registrants Balance Sheet under GAAP $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Total $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0