MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth under the Risk Factors, Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Business sections in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Company Overview Q Therapeutics, Inc. (hereinafter Q Therapeutics, Q, we, us, our and similar expressions) is a Salt Lake City, Utah-based biopharmaceutical company that is developing human cell-based therapies that can be sold as off-the-shelf pharmaceuticals intended to treat neurodegenerative diseases of the brain and spinal cord, the primary components of the central nervous system or CNS. The technology upon which these potential therapies are based was developed by Qs co-founder Mahendra Rao, M.D., Ph.D., a leader in glial stem cell biology, during Dr. Raos tenure as a Professor at the University of Utah and as Head of the Stem Cell Section in the Laboratory of Neuroscience at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Institute of Aging. Dr. Rao was one of the first scientists to identify and seek patent coverage on stem cells and their progeny cells found in the CNS. Every year, millions of people suffer from debilitating and often fatal neurodegenerative diseases of the brain and spinal cord. Despite much effort by the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, current approaches to treating these diseases have not been effective. A new approach is needed for treating the multimodal nature of neurodegenerative disease. Q has identified and patented a new treatment modality that provides a multi-factorial approach, bypassing the need to address individual pathways. Specifically, Q is developing a cell-based therapeutic that employs a natural cell type found in the healthy CNS: human glial restricted progenitors and their progeny cells. We call them, Q-Cells . Q-Cells produce astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, the support cells that enable the normal function of neurons. We believe that Q-Cells may provide multiple and complementary mechanisms of action in the treatment of many neurodegenerative diseases. An advantage of this approach is that one need not fully understand all of the mechanistic aspects of these diseases, as we are tapping into the natural cellular machinery that enables healthy systems to function. We believe this is a more realistic approach than seeking a drug that affects a single disease pathway (although the addition of Q-Cell therapy may enhance benefits seen with such single drugs). Based on data in animal models, we believe that repairing damaged neurons is a faster, more realistic and easier approach than trying to replace them. Initially, Q is targeting orphan diseases, where the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) can allow fast-track approvals and market exclusivity, and for which smaller, less-expensive clinical trials may be warranted. This approach may result in accelerated commercialization efforts while maintaining a financing approach focused on capital efficiency. Q is advancing its initial product candidate, trademarked Q-Cells as a potential treatment for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (Lou Gehrigs disease or ALS), and eventually other indications, potentially including Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Transverse Myelitis (TM), Spinal Cord Injury (SCI), Stroke, Huntingtons disease, Parkinsons disease and Alzheimers disease. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 To date, we have not generated significant revenues ($0 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014) and have been focused on developing our products for therapeutic use for commercial sale. We have not generated revenues in excess of expenses and have been dependent on government grants and debt and equity raised from investors to sustain our operations. Our products have not yet been approved by the FDA for commercial sale, and as a result we have not generated revenues from therapeutic product sales. We have incurred losses and used cash in operating activities since inception. As of March 31, 2015, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $27,995,158 and negative working capital of $787,925. 9 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $560,328, a decrease of $23,533, or 4.0%, from $583,862 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The decrease is primarily related to stock-based compensation expense resulting from the director, officer and employee option grants in 2014, offset, in part, by an increase in legal and professional fees and payroll related expenses. We anticipate general and administrative expenses to remain at approximately the same levels going forward. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015, were $227,157, a decrease of $256,987, or 53.1%, from $484,144 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The decrease is primarily due to the costs incurred in 2014 associated with our large animal safety study and cell manufacturing, offset, in part, by the increase in clinical consulting fees related to the preparation of our IND submission. We anticipate research and development expenses to remain at approximately the same levels, or increase as necessary, as we progress towards commercializing our product candidates. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the three months ended March 31, 2015, net cash used in operating activities totaled $373,917 compared to $342,510 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Cash outflows slightly increased in 2015 primarily from the change in the net loss and the change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, net cash used in investing activities related to the purchase of lab and computer equipment was $0 compared to $5,615 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, net cash provided by financing activities was $114,131 compared to $490,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Cash provided by financing activities in 2015 was sourced from the exercise of common stock warrants and common stock options. As of March 31, 2015, the Company had negative working capital of $787,925. In order for us to continue to meet our operational and liquidity needs, we must obtain additional funding. Any additional equity financing, if available, may not be available on favorable terms and may be dilutive to current stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve more restrictive covenants that may potentially impair our ability to operate the Company. Our ability to access capital when needed is not assured and, if not achieved on a timely basis, will materially harm our business, financial position and results of operations. These uncertainties create substantial doubt about our ability to continue as going concern. No adjustments have been made to our financial statements as a result of this uncertainty. Recent Accounting Pronouncement In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern (Subtopic 310-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . ASU 2014-15 provides guidance in US GAAP about managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entitys ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures. In doing so, this is intended to reduce diversity in the timing and content of disclosures. This is effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 10 Table of Contents Significant Accounting Policies Significant accounting policies are those policies which are both important to the presentation of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most subjective or complex judgments. Often estimates are required to be made about matters that are inherently uncertain. No significant changes to our accounting policies occurred during the periods presented. For a further discussion of our significant accounting policies, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.