Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) and related notes and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4, 2014 (the Prospectus). This discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Prospectus for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. The terms Company, IMS, we, our or us, as used herein, refer to IMS Health Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise stated or indicated by context. Amounts presented may not add due to rounding. Background We are a leading global information and technology services company providing clients in the healthcare industry with comprehensive solutions to measure and improve their performance. We have one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of healthcare information in the world, spanning sales, prescription and promotional data, medical claims, electronic medical records and social media. We standardize, organize, structure and integrate this data by applying our sophisticated analytics and leveraging our global technology infrastructure to help our clients run their organizations more efficiently and make better decisions to improve their operational and financial performance. We have a presence in over 100 countries and we generated 63% of our 2013 revenue from outside the United States. We serve key healthcare organizations and decision makers around the world, spanning the breadth of life science companies, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology, consumer health and medical device manufacturers, as well as distributors, providers, payers, government agencies, policymakers, researchers and the financial community. Our information and technology services offerings, which we have developed with significant investment over our 60-year history, are deeply integrated into our clients workflow. Initial Public Offering On April 4, 2014, our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IMS. On April 9, 2014, we completed our Initial Public Offering (IPO) of our common stock at a price to the public of $20.00 per share. We issued and sold 52 million shares of common stock in the IPO. The selling shareholders offered and sold 22.75 million shares of common stock in the IPO, including 9.75 million shares that were offered and sold by the selling shareholders pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters allotment to purchase additional shares. As of September 30, 2014, affiliates of TPG Global, LLC (together with its affiliates, TPG), CPP Investment Board Private Holdings, Inc. (CPPIB-PHI), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (together with its affiliates, CPPIB), and Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. (LGP and collectively with TPG and CPPIB, the Sponsors) collectively remained our majority shareholders. We raised net proceeds of approximately $987 million from the IPO, after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and related expenses totaling $53 million. We did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of the shares sold by the selling shareholders. Substantially all of our net proceeds of the IPO, approximately $500 million of borrowings under new term loans, $140 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility and approximately $400 million of cash on the balance sheet were used to (i) fund the redemption of our 12.5% Senior Notes and Senior PIK Notes (defined in the Debt section below) and pay related fees and expenses, (ii) pay $30 million in the aggregate to holders of outstanding cash settled stock appreciation rights (Phantom SARs) granted under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan and (iii) pay a one-time fee of $72 million to terminate our management services agreement with the Sponsors. 22 Acquisitions We make acquisitions to enhance our capabilities and offerings in certain areas, including technology services. During the three months ended September 30, 2014, we completed the acquisitions of Aileron Solutions, LLC (U.S.), Global Channel Marketing Solutions (U.S.) and additional consumer health businesses of Nielsen Holdings N.V. in certain European markets. Aileron uses anonymous medical claims data to provide analytic services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device companies for the purpose of identifying healthcare professionals that will most benefit from information regarding medical device, diagnostics, or prescription products. This acquisition accelerates our services in two primary growth areas: oncology specialty and the medical device and diagnostic channel. Global Channel Marketing Solutions is a multi-channel marketing company that helps life sciences companies transform their customer engagements through multi-channel marketing operations support and solutions. Additionally, during the first six months of 2014, we completed the acquisitions of Forcea NV, a Belgium-based company that specializes in business intelligence applications and analytics for hospitals and life sciences organizations, the consumer health business of Nielsen Holdings N.V. in certain other European markets and Kent Capital in the U.S. The purchase price allocation for these acquisitions will be finalized after the completion of the valuation of certain intangible assets and any adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocation are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations. The total cost for these acquisitions was approximately $60 million, of which $56 million was paid during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and the balance will be paid in 2015 subject to certain conditions. See Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information with respect to these acquisitions. The results of operations of acquired businesses have been included since the date of acquisition and were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. In addition to the completed acquisitions, we announced in June 2014 our intention to acquire certain Cegedim Information Solutions and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) businesses for 385 million (approximately $520 million, assuming an exchange rate of $1.35 to each Euro) in cash. Cegedim, headquartered in Paris, France, is a global technology and services company specializing in healthcare whose offerings help pharmaceutical companies manage their sales and marketing operations. In October 2014, we announced that following the successful completion of works council information and consultation requirements in certain countries, the Cegedim board of directors approved our offer and a definitive purchase agreement has been executed. We expect to finance this acquisition through a mix of cash on hand and existing credit facilities, with no material impact on our leverage ratio. The proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory and other closing conditions. We anticipate the transaction will close in early 2015. Results excluding the Effects of Foreign Currency Translation and Certain Charges We report results in U.S. dollars, but we do business on a global basis. Exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency revenue and expenses and may have a significant effect on our results. The discussion of our financial results in this report includes comparisons with the prior year in constant currency terms, using consistent exchange rates. We believe this information facilitates comparison of the underlying results over time. During the first nine months of 2014, the U.S. dollar was generally stronger against the other currencies in which we transact business as compared to the first nine months of 2013. The revenue growth at actual currency rates was lower than the growth at constant currency exchange rates during the first nine months period. See How Exchange Rates Affect our Results and