Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, representations and contentions, and are not historical facts and typically are identified by terms such as "may," "will," "should," "could," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "forecast," "predict," "potential," "continue" and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as our future business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition; research and development or technology investments; new or enhanced products, services or technologies; emerging industries or business models; design wins or product launches; industry, market or technology trends, dynamics or transitions, such as technology upgrade cycles; our future demand or supply conditions or macroeconomic factors; strategic investments, acquisitions or divestitures, and the anticipated timing or benefits thereof; legal or regulatory matters; U.S./China trade and national security tensions; global hostilities, including the war in Ukraine and the ongoing conflict in the Middle East; vertical integration by our customers; competition; and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are also forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements reflect the good faith judgment of our management as of the date the statement is first made, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known and understood by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and actual financial results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are summarized and disclosed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report. Readers are cautioned to review carefully and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Company Overview Qorvo is a global leader in the development and commercialization of technologies and products for wireless, wired and power markets. We are organized into three operating and reportable segments that align our technologies and applications with customers and end markets: High Performance Analog ("HPA"), Connectivity and Sensors Group ("CSG") and Advanced Cellular Group ("ACG"). HPA is a leading global supplier of radio frequency ("RF"), analog mixed signal and power management solutions. CSG is a leading global supplier of connectivity and sensor solutions, with broad expertise spanning ultra-wideband ("UWB"), Matter, Bluetooth Low Energy, Zigbee, Thread, Wi-Fi, cellular Internet of Things ("IoT") and microelectromechanical system ("MEMS")-based sensors. ACG is a leading global supplier of cellular RF solutions for smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and other devices. In addition to organic growth, our strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses, assets and technologies that complement our existing capabilities and enable us to drive growth in new or existing markets. During fiscal 4 Table of Contents 2024, we acquired Anokiwave, Inc. ("Anokiwave"), a leading supplier of high-performance beamforming and mixed signal integrated circuits ("ICs") enabling intelligent active array antennas for defense and aerospace, satellite communication and 5G applications. Industry Trends, Markets and Products Global connectivity trends and the proliferation of more intelligent, data-intensive applications are increasing demand for technologies that efficiently increase data throughput, improve user experiences and enable new methods of human-machine interaction. Additionally, global trends related to energy generation, consumption, storage and sustainability are increasing requirements for power management technologies that increase power efficiency. These and other global macro trends are increasing the demand for our technologies and products. Our business is diversified across mobile devices, infrastructure, power management, connectivity and sensing, defense and aerospace, and automotive. Our products solve our customers most complex challenges while enhancing performance, improving efficiency, increasing functionality, enabling new form factors and addressing other critical challenges. Mobile Devices Qorvos largest market is mobile devices, which includes smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and other devices and is characterized by complex devices and large unit volumes serving global ecosystems. Our portfolio includes highly integrated and functionally dense RF modules, power management integrated circuits ("PMICs"), UWB system-on-a-chip ("SoC") and system-in-package ("SiP") solutions, MEMS-based sensors, antenna tuners, antennaplexers, as well as discrete multiplexers, duplexers, filters and switches. Our products are manufactured using multiple process technologies and combined in various, miniaturized form factors. Advances in mobile devices are transforming how end users around the world access content, interact with communities and transact commerce. The migration to 5G enables higher data throughput, lower signal latency and massive machine-type communication. 5G devices operate over a wide range of frequencies and face challenges related to efficiency, linearity, signal coexistence, signal integrity and form factor. 5G architectures are more complex and include Multiple-Input/Multiple-Output, higher frequencies with wider bandwidths and new paths featuring carrier aggregation. In addition, mobile device original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") are leveraging UWB's precision-location accuracy to enhance functionality with applications that can offer secure remote access, indoor navigation and other functionality. They are also seeking to adopt force-sensing touch sensor technology to enhance human-machine interfaces, create new consumer experiences and advance industrial design. These challenges, along with increases in functionality and complexity, are driving the need for more advanced system-level engineering. This has led to higher levels of integration within RF solutions to achieve the highest standards of performance, power efficiency and functional density. Infrastructure Data-intensive use cases such as machine learning, industrial automation, robotics and augmented reality/virtual reality ("AR/VR") are increasing the performance and capacity requirements of wired and wireless 5G networks. In cellular base stations, operators are migrating to 5G to increase capacity, expand coverage and lower the cost per bit of data. Qorvo supports cellular base station OEMs with a broad portfolio of infrastructure solutions to address their most critical requirements for data capacity, throughput and efficiency. Qorvo's cellular infrastructure products include switches, filters, low noise amplifier ("LNA") modules, discrete LNAs, variable gain amplifiers and control circuits. In broadband infrastructure, network operators are migrating from Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification ("DOCSIS") 3.1 to DOCSIS 4.0 to increase the efficiency of existing infrastructure and significantly increase download and upload speeds for end users. Qorvo is enabling the transition to DOCSIS 4.0 with a broad portfolio of products including high-output power doublers, drivers, pre-amps, return amps, voltage-controlled attenuators, digital step attenuators, switches and voltage variable equalizers. 5 Table of Contents Power Management Power efficiency is a core requirement in all electronics, and power management is critical to enhancing efficiency. Trends in infrastructure (such as data storage and cloud servers), industrial power, renewable energy systems, electric vehicles ("EVs")/hybrid-EVs, battery-operated portable devices, EV chargers, on-board chargers and e-mobility (e-bikes, robots and scooters) require better power efficiency and are increasing the demand for our power management solutions. Qorvos power management solutions include programmable PMICs and single-chip integrated power application controllers (PACs) for motor control and battery management systems. Our reconfigurable core portfolio of programmable PMICs provides customers with digital and analog power control across a broad range of applications. They reduce solution size, improve battery life, lower cost, improve system reliability and shorten our customers product development time. Our power management products manage voltages from 1.8V to 600V and power levels up to 4,000 watts. Qorvos silicon carbide ("SiC") power devices provide state-of-the-art efficiency in a range of power conversion applications. Our SiC portfolio includes Schottky diodes and transistors ranging in voltage from 650V to 1700V. Power levels vary from 650 watts to hundreds of kilowatts, and markets include automotive, industrial, IT infrastructure and renewable energy. Connectivity and Sensing The proliferation of data-driven, connected devices that sense, process and communicate are driving demand for wireless connectivity solutions that increase throughput, reduce latency, enhance security and maximize efficiency. Use cases in consumer, commercial and industrial IoT applications include connected home, AR/VR, healthcare and factory automation. Connected home devices allow remote access and control of applications including entertainment, comfort, health monitoring and property monitoring and security. These devices can be controlled through a computer, tablet or smartphone, or through a direct peer-to-peer device such as a voice-enabled remote control, tablet or home control assistant. Qorvos connectivity solutions include multi-protocol (Bluetooth Low Energy, Zigbee, Matter and Thread) SoC solutions, UWB SoCs and UWB SiP solutions that combine our SoC with RF front end, firmware and application software. Qorvos multi-protocol SoCs enable multiple radios to connect concurrently. The coexistence of multiple low-power wireless protocols in a SoC reduces form factor, extends battery life and helps advance the proliferation of IoT devices. To simplify the interoperability challenges of a multi-protocol environment, an open and universal smart home overlay known as Matter was developed to accelerate adoption of IoT devices and platforms. Qorvos UWB SoC and SiP solutions, in combination with Qorvo's broad ecosystem of hardware, software, and solutions partners, enable new use cases that require precision location accuracy and security, including secure home access, secure car access, indoor navigation and other applications. Qorvos force-sensing touch sensors enable an enhanced human-machine interface experience. Use cases include automotive smart interiors, laptop trackpads, smartphones and other applications. In Wi-Fi, new standards and architectures, such as 802.11ax (Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E) and 802.11be (Wi-Fi 7), are enhancing performance, increasing range and capacity and enabling new use cases. The Wi-Fi 7 standard doubles the channel bandwidth and number of spatial streams compared to Wi-Fi 6E and uses multi-link operation to combine portions of the 5 GHz and 6 GHz bands into a single link, enabling faster speeds over longer distances. As standards and architectures evolve, functional requirements increase and demand more highly integrated RF front end solutions. Qorvos Wi-Fi portfolio includes power amplifiers ("PAs"), switches, LNAs and Bulk Acoustic Wave ("BAW") filters, as well as solutions including front end modules ("FEMs") and iFEMs featuring integrated filters. Defense and Aerospace In Defense and Aerospace ("D&A"), Qorvo focuses primarily on high-power phased array radar, electronic military applications and communications systems, including both defense and commercial space satellite communications. Within these markets, the adoption of phased array radar, the introduction of new frequency bands and the shift to higher frequencies expand the opportunity for our products and technologies across a broad frequency spectrum. We are a leading supplier of RF products and compound semiconductor foundry services to defense primes and other global defense and aerospace customers. We also engage directly with U.S. government defense customers to 6 Table of Contents develop next-generation semiconductor and packaging technologies. Our D&A portfolio includes industry-leading standard products and integrated multi-chip modules such as premium filters, LNAs, mixers, phase shifters, switches, multiplexers and attenuators. Automotive In automotive markets, new use cases including vehicle-to-everything ("V2X") communications, advanced connectivity services and secure car access are supporting the migration to more connected, more intelligent vehicles. These new use cases are driving increased content across multiple connectivity and sensing technologies, including cellular, V2X, Wi-Fi, satellite radio, MEMS-based force-sensing and UWB. Our force-sensing touch sensors enable an enhanced human-machine interface experience in automotive smart interior applications. Our UWB solutions leverage secure ultra-low latency communication and precision location accuracy to enable digital key access and digital key sharing while reducing the risk of "man-in-the-middle," or "relay" attacks possible with legacy technologies. UWB can also enable Child Presence Detection, a safety system designed to detect and alert if a child or pet is accidentally left behind in a vehicle, by leveraging the radar capabilities of the UWB technology. Similarly, electrification trends in automotive platforms and the adoption of EVs/hybrid-EVs are increasing semiconductor content due to the greater need for on-board sensing and control systems, and charging and battery management systems. Our connectivity and sensor products for automotive applications include BAW filters, LNAs, switches, PAs, front end solutions, force-sensing touch sensors and UWB solutions. Our automotive power portfolio includes SiC power FET products, on-board chargers and DC/DC converters. Our power management portfolio includes single chip integrated high-voltage analog PMICs for motor control and battery management systems. All of our automotive products meet or exceed AEC-Q100 quality and reliability standards, and our customers include market leading Tier-1 suppliers. Research and Development We invest in research and development ("R&D") to develop advanced technologies and products to best serve our markets. Our R&D activities support large competitive design win opportunities for major programs at key customers, which require best-in-class performance, size, cost and functional density. We also invest in R&D to develop new products for broader market applications. Our R&D efforts focus on innovation in fundamental areas including materials, software, semiconductor process technologies, simulation and modeling, systems architecture, circuit design, device packaging, module integration and test capabilities. We have developed multiple generations of gallium arsenide ("GaAs"), gallium nitride ("GaN"), BAW and surface acoustic wave ("SAW") process technologies that we manufacture. We invest in these technologies to improve device performance, reduce die size and reduce manufacturing costs. We also source technologies in cooperation with key suppliers, including silicon on insulator ("SOI") for LNAs, switches and tuners, silicon germanium ("SiGe") for amplifiers and LNAs, complementary metal oxide semiconductor ("CMOS") for power management devices and SoC solutions, MEMS technology for switches and force-sensing and SiC for high-voltage power conversion devices. We combine these technologies with proprietary design methods, intellectual property ("IP") and other expertise to improve performance, increase integration and reduce the size and cost of our products. We develop and qualify advanced packaging technologies to reduce component size, improve performance and reduce package costs. We also invest in large scale module assembly and test capabilities to bring these technologies to market in very high volumes. Raw Materials and Manufacturing We purchase numerous raw materials and parts, such as silicon, passive components and substrates, for our manufacturing processes. In our GaN and GaAs manufacturing operations, we use several raw materials, including GaN on SiC wafers and GaAs wafers. In our acoustic filter manufacturing operations, raw materials include silicon, lithium niobate and lithium tantalate. Our procurement and supply chain functions are centralized and service all three operating segments. We procure our materials, parts and supplies from a large number of sources through established purchase contracts with 7 Table of Contents suppliers or on a purchase order basis. We enter into supply agreements, for certain items, to address short-term and long-term supply requirements during periods of semiconductor industry supply constraints. Our manufacturing strategy includes a balance of internal and external capacity. Our manufacturing sites are geographically distributed and service all three operating segments. We routinely qualify additional manufacturing sites and sources of supply to reduce the risk of supply interruptions or price increases, and we continuously monitor our suppliers key performance indicators. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from multi-chip modules utilizing multiple semiconductor and acoustic material processing technologies. These products have varying degrees of complexity and contain semiconductors and other components that are manufactured internally or sourced from outside supply chain partners. These individual components are combined and assembled into various, miniaturized packages and tested to ensure compliance with customer specifications. We operate fabrication facilities for the production of BAW, GaAs, GaN, SAW and Temperature Compensated SAW wafers in North Carolina, Oregon and Texas. We also use multiple silicon-based process technologies, including SiC, SOI, SiGe and bulk CMOS, which are principally sourced from leading silicon foundries located throughout the world. We have a global supply chain and ship millions of units per day. We have our own flip chip, wire bond and wafer-level packaging technologies. In fiscal 2024, we used internal assembly facilities in China, Costa Rica, Germany and the U.S., and we also used external suppliers located in Asia for these and other packaging technologies. Manufacturing yields can vary significantly between products, based on a number of factors, including product complexity, performance requirements and the maturity of our manufacturing processes. To maximize wafer yields and quality, we test products multiple times, maintain continuous reliability monitoring and conduct numerous quality control inspections throughout the production flow. Our internal manufacturing facilities require a high level of fixed costs, consisting primarily of occupancy costs, maintenance, repair, equipment depreciation and labor costs related to manufacturing and process engineering. We attempt to match our manufacturing capacity with the varying level of demand we anticipate from our customers to optimize our factory utilization and cost efficiency. We routinely evaluate opportunities to enhance operational efficiencies and reduce capital intensity. In the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we entered into a definitive agreement with Luxshare Precision Industry Co., Ltd. ("Luxshare"), a global contract manufacturer, to divest our assembly and test operations in China. In connection with this transaction, which was completed on May 2, 2024, Luxshare is providing assembly and test services to us under a long-term supply agreement. Semiconductor fabrication requires highly controlled and clean environments. Die on a wafer can be found to be nonfunctional or wafers can be rejected due to a number of reasons, including minute impurities, variances in the fabrication process or defects in the masks used to transfer circuit patterns onto the wafers. Our manufacturing facilities worldwide are certified to the International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 9001 quality standard, and select locations are certified to additional automotive (IATF 16949), aerospace (AS 9100) and environmental (ISO 14001) standards. These stringent standards are audited and certified by third-party auditors in addition to our continuous internal self-audits. The ISO 9001 standard is based on a number of quality management principles including a strong customer focus, the motivation of top management, the process approach and continual improvement. IATF 16949 is the highest international quality standard for the global automotive industry and incorporates specific additional requirements for the automotive industry. AS 9100 is the standardized quality management system for the aerospace industry. ISO 14001 is an internationally agreed upon standard for an Environmental Management System ("EMS"). We require that all of our key vendors and suppliers be compliant with applicable standards. 8 Table of Contents Customers We design, develop, manufacture and market our products and solutions for leading U.S. and international OEMs and original design manufacturers ("ODMs"). We also collaborate with leading reference design partners and provide foundry services to defense primes and other defense and aerospace customers. We provide products to our largest end customer, Apple Inc. ("Apple"), through sales to multiple contract manufacturers, which in the aggregate accounted for 46% and 37% of total revenue in fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Samsung") accounted for 12% of total revenue in both fiscal years 2024 and 2023. These customers primarily purchase RF solutions for a variety of mobile devices. Sales and Marketing We sell our products worldwide both directly to customers and through a network of U.S. and foreign sales representative firms and distributors. We select our sales representative firms and distributors based on technical skills and sales experience, the presence of complementary product lines and the customer base served. We provide ongoing educational training about our products to our internal and external sales representatives and distributors. We maintain an internal sales and marketing organization that is responsible for key account management, application engineering support for customers, sales and advertising literature and technical presentations for industry conferences. Our sales and customer support centers are located near our customers throughout the world. Our website contains extensive product information and includes an online store where customers can learn about our products, download product catalogs, order products and samples and request evaluation boards. Our global team of application engineers interacts with customers during all stages of design and production, maintains regular contact with customer engineers, provides product application notes and engineering data and assists in the resolution of technical problems. We maintain close relationships with our customers and chipset suppliers and provide them with strong technical support to enhance their customer experience and help anticipate future product needs. Seasonality Our sales are the result of standard purchase orders or specific agreements with customers. Our revenue fluctuates based on consumer demand for devices as well as the timing of customer device launches and large defense programs. Other factors such as macroeconomic effects and the timing of the next generation of technologies can also impact the fluctuations in demand. Competition We operate in a competitive industry generally characterized by rapid advances in technology and new product introductions. Our customers product life cycles can be short, especially in mobile devices, and our competitiveness depends on our ability to improve our products and processes faster than our competitors, anticipate changing customer requirements and successfully develop and launch new products while reducing our costs. Our competitiveness is also affected by the quality of our customer service, including technical support, and in some cases our ability to design customized products that address certain customers specific requirements. The selection process for our products is highly competitive, and our customers provide no guarantees that our products will be included in the next generation of products introduced. HPA competes primarily with Analog Devices, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; MACOM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc.; Monolithic Power Systems, Inc.; NXP Semiconductors N.V.; ON Semiconductor Corporation; STMicroelectronics N.V.; Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations; Texas Instruments, Inc.; and Wolfspeed, Inc. CSG competes primarily with Broadcom Inc.; Nordic Semiconductor; NXP Semiconductors N.V.; Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.; Silicon Laboratories Inc.; and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. ACG competes primarily with Broadcom Inc.; Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.; and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Many of our current and potential competitors have strong market positions and customer relationships, established patents and other IP, and substantial technological capabilities. In some cases, our competitors are also our customers or suppliers. Additionally, many of our competitors have significant financial, technical, manufacturing 9 Table of Contents and marketing resources, which may allow them to more quickly implement new technologies and develop new products. Intellectual Property Our IP (including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets) is important to our business, and we actively seek opportunities to leverage our IP portfolio to promote our business interests. We also actively monitor and protect our global IP rights to deter unauthorized use of our IP and other assets. These efforts can be difficult because of the absence of consistent international standards and laws. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect IP rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We respect the IP rights of others and have implemented policies and procedures to mitigate the risk of infringing or misappropriating third-party IP. Patent applications are filed within the U.S. and in other strategic countries where we have a market presence. On occasion, some applications do not mature into patents for various reasons, including rejections based on prior art. We have approximately 2,300 patents that have expiration dates between 2024 and 2042. We also continue to acquire patents through acquisitions or direct prosecution efforts and engage in licensing transactions to secure the right to use third-parties patents. In view of our rapid innovation and product development and the comparative pace of governments patenting processes, there is no guarantee that patented technology for our products and services will not be obsolete before the related patents expire or are granted. However, we believe the duration and scope of our most relevant patents are sufficient to support our business, which as a whole is not significantly dependent on any particular patent or other IP right. As we expand our products and offerings, we also seek to expand our patent prosecution efforts to cover such products. We periodically register federal trademarks, service marks and trade names that distinguish our product brand names in the market. We also monitor these marks for their proper and intended use. Additionally, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements to protect our interest in confidential and proprietary information that gives us a competitive advantage, including business strategies, unpatented inventions, designs and process technology. Such information is closely monitored and made available only to those employees whose responsibilities require access to the information. Human Capital We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and we must continue to attract, develop, retain and motivate our employees to remain competitive and execute our business strategy. We strive to meet these objectives by offering competitive pay and benefits in a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace and by providing opportunities for our employees to grow and develop their careers. As of March 30, 2024, we employed approximately 8,700 full and part-time employees in 23 countries. By region, approximately 56% of our total employees were in the Americas, 37% in Asia and 7% in Europe. Approximately 62% of our global population was in engineering or technician roles. Upon completion of the transaction to divest our assembly and test operations in China on May 2, 2024, approximately 2,600 of our employees became employees of Luxshare. Competitive Pay and Benefits We use a combination of compensation and other programs (which vary by region and salary grade) to attract, develop, motivate and retain our employees, including semiannual performance bonuses, stock awards, an employee stock purchase plan, retirement programs, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance, health and wellness benefits and programs and on-site fitness centers. We routinely benchmark our compensation and benefits packages to ensure we remain competitive with our peers and continue to attract and retain talent throughout our organization. Employee Recruitment, Retention and Development We are committed to recruiting, hiring, retaining, promoting and engaging a diverse workforce to best serve our global customers. We have established relationships with professional associations and industry groups to proactively attract talent, and we partner with universities with diverse student populations for our internship program. We believe that our internship program and university partnerships contribute to developing the next 10 Table of Contents generation of talent, including engineers in our industry, and provide a pipeline of recent college graduates into our talent pool. Our high-performance culture is supported by a process of goal setting, continuous feedback and coaching, all geared towards fostering skill and competency growth. Complementing these efforts are a variety of talent and leadership development programs tailored to address the needs of employees across all organizational levels. Additionally, our educational assistance program, which enables employees to pursue their career aspirations, also enhances their professional capabilities and further contributes to our organizational success. We believe our competitive compensation and benefits programs, along with career growth, development and internal mobility opportunities, promote longer employee tenure and reduce turnover. We regularly monitor voluntary employee turnover, as our success depends upon retaining highly trained personnel with the technical skills necessary to execute our business objectives. Our global attrition rate has consistently been below the technology industry average. Employee Engagement Qorvo is dedicated to fostering a connected and thriving workforce. To assess and improve employee engagement, we conduct an annual global engagement survey, which is administered by a third party to ensure confidentiality. We are committed to actively listening to our employees and solicit feedback on a variety of factors including strategy, culture, execution, inclusion, work environment, growth and development, collaboration and engagement. The results are reviewed by senior management, who analyze areas of progress or opportunities for improvement and work with their teams to develop targeted action plans. Employee-driven groups, called Qorvo Employee Networks, provide platforms for employees to connect based on shared interests and objectives, fostering both professional and personal growth. Through our Qorvo Cares program, we sponsor a diverse array of employee events to further engage our workforce, facilitating connections and cultivating an enjoyable work environment. Moreover, our community engagement initiatives empower employees to make a tangible difference in their neighborhoods, working alongside their colleagues. Through these efforts, we are dedicated to nurturing a culture of engagement and collective impact within our organization. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion At Qorvo, we value diversity, equity and inclusion and respect the unique talents, experiences, cultures and ideas of our global team members. Diversity and inclusion principles are threaded across the entire company, and employees are equipped with the knowledge and capabilities to welcome and embrace diversity and advocate for inclusion. Our efforts to foster a diverse and inclusive workplace include partnering with organizations in our surrounding communities that advocate for gender, race and ethnicity, socioeconomic, disability and LGBTQ+ equality. These and other efforts help promote an inclusive workplace of talented employees and drive employee engagement. Safety, Health and Wellness We are a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (the "RBA"), an industry coalition dedicated to driving sustainable value for workers in global supply chains, among other things. As a member of the RBA, we have adopted the RBA Code of Conduct, which establishes standards to ensure that working conditions are safe, that employees are treated with respect and dignity and that business operations are environmentally responsible and conducted ethically. The RBA Code of Conduct has been reflected in our employee policies and procedures. In addition, Qorvo is committed to complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate and supporting ethical labor practices that do not infringe on human rights. We prioritize safe working conditions for our employees as well as our on-site contractors and visitors. We are committed to an injury-free workplace and provide dedicated workplace training and leadership support to reduce or eliminate health and safety risks. In fiscal 2024, we achieved our safety goal for the sixth consecutive year. Our site-specific health and safety teams are critical in fostering a positive safety culture. Team members utilize our online near miss and hazard reporting system, a system critical to prevent worker injury. The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our employees. We provide our employees with work arrangements that support flexibility, while maintaining our strong culture of innovation, collaboration and camaraderie. We provide our employees and their families access to a variety of health and wellness programs that support their physical and mental health. These programs provide tools and resources, such 11 Table of Contents as health coaches and wellness incentives, that emphasize preventive care, encourage healthy behaviors, and are designed to help cultivate a productive work environment, while also focusing on the well-being of our employees. Government Regulations We are subject to a variety of extensive and changing domestic and international federal, state and local governmental laws, regulations and ordinances related to the discharge of pollutants into the environment; the treatment, transport and disposal of hazardous waste; recycling and product packaging; worker health and safety; and other activities affecting the environment, our workforce and the management of our manufacturing operations. We continuously improve the environmental aspects of our manufacturing processes and are dedicated to: providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; complying with regulatory and other requirements; using natural resources, energy and materials efficiently; evaluating ways to substitute sustainable resources in place of non-renewable resources; reusing or recycling materials wherever technically possible and economically reasonable; minimizing waste and disposing of waste safely and responsibly; sourcing raw material responsibly; and implementing specific measures to prevent and minimize hazards to humans and the environment including pollution prevention. We believe that our operations and facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws, and our efforts help to ensure that our products are compliant with the requirements of the markets into which the products will be sold and with our customers requirements. For example, our products are compliant with the European Union RoHS Directive (2011/65/EU on the Restriction of Use of Hazardous Substances), which prohibits the sale in the European Union market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain families of substances above a specified threshold. We are an ISO 14001:2015 certified manufacturer with a comprehensive EMS in place to help ensure control of the environmental aspects of the manufacturing process. Our EMS mandates compliance and establishes appropriate checks and balances to minimize the potential for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We are also subject to import/export controls, tariffs and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in countries in which we have operations or otherwise do business. These controls, tariffs, regulations and restrictions (including those related to, or affected by, U.S./China relations, as discussed below in Item 1A, "Risk Factors") may have a material impact on our business, including our ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components. Government regulations are subject to change, and accordingly we are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements or whether our compliance with such regulations will materially impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. Available Information We make available, free of charge through our website (https://www.qorvo.com), our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including exhibits and related filings in iXBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website at https://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information 12 Table of Contents regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public may also request a copy of our forms filed with the SEC, without charge upon written request, directed to: Investor Relations Department Qorvo, Inc. 7628 Thorndike Road Greensboro, NC 27409-9421 The information contained on or accessible through our website is not incorporated by reference or considered to be a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or other factors not perceived by us to present material risks to our business at this time, may impair our business operations, financial condition, or results of operations. Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operating results fluctuate and are substantially dependent on developing new products and achieving design wins as our customers' requirements can change rapidly and product life cycles can be short. We depend on several large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the United States government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced. We depend heavily on third parties. We face risks related to sales through distributors. We face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities, and if we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. We are subject to inventory risks and costs because we purchase materials and build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. We sell certain of our products based on reference designs of chipset suppliers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business. Overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We are subject to risks from international sales and operations. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt or to fund capital expenditures and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations and financing requirements, which may not be successful or on terms favorable to us. Our acquisitions and other strategic investments could fail to achieve our financial or strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business and adversely impact our results of operations. We must attract, retain, and motivate key employees in order to compete, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations. We rely on our IP portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our IP by third parties, and we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party IP rights. Security breaches and other disruptions to our IT systems, or other misappropriation of proprietary information, could expose us to liability or disrupt our ability to operate critical business functions, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, see below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our operating results fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. Our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Historically, worldwide semiconductor industry sales have tracked the impacts of financial crises, subsequent recoveries and persistent economic uncertainty. Global economic slowdowns could potentially result in certain economies dipping into economic recessions, including the United States. If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following: business and macroeconomic changes, including trade restrictions, foreign governments subsidizing local suppliers, recession or slowing growth in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy; political and/or civil unrest, acts of war or other military actions, including any resulting sanctions or other restrictive actions; inflationary pressures, which vary across jurisdictions in which we do business, resulting in increased costs or reduced demand for our products due to increased prices of those products; changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, unemployment levels, energy or other commodity prices as well as changes in existing and expected rates of inflation; fluctuations in demand for our customers products; our ability to forecast our customers demand for our products accurately; the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products and otherwise deliver on their commitments to us in a timely and cost-effective manner; our customers and distributors ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products; delays in the widespread deployment and commercialization of new technologies; our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; 14 Table of Contents our ability to successfully integrate into our business, and realize the expected benefits of, our acquisitions and strategic investments; our ability to disaggregate and divest elements of our business and realize the expected benefits of doing so; and our ability to align production capacity to customer demand, which may lead to underutilization of our capacity in periods of lower demand or the lack of capacity in periods of excess demand. Our operating results have been and our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors. If our future operating results or forecasts are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline. Our operating results are substantially dependent on developing new products and achieving design wins while our customers' requirements can change rapidly and product life cycles can be short. Our largest markets are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product requirements. Our largest customers typically refresh some or all of their product portfolios by releasing new models each year. In some cases, product designs we pursue represent either opportunities to substantially increase our revenue by winning a new design or a risk of a substantial decrease in revenue by losing a product on which we are the incumbent. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers. The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times. Our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements; our ability to design products that meet our customers cost, size and performance requirements; our ability to introduce new products that are competitive and can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance; acceptance of our new product designs; the availability of qualified product design engineers; our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and market acceptance of our customers products and the duration of the life cycle of such products. We may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet market or customer requirements. Most major product design opportunities that we pursue involve multiple competitors, and we could lose a new product design opportunity to a competitor that offers a lower cost or equal or superior performance. If we are unsuccessful in achieving design wins, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. Even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured. Design wins may require significant expenditures by us before realizing revenue six to nine months or more later. Many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly reduce the revenue obtained from a design win. In many cases, the average selling prices of our products decline over the products lives, and we must achieve yield improvements, cost reductions and other productivity enhancements in order to maintain profitability. The actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customers products. 15 Table of Contents We depend on several large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from several large customers. Our future operating results will be affected by both the success of our largest customers and our success in diversifying our products and customer base. Collectively, our two largest end customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 58%, 49% and 44% of our revenue for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. If demand for their products increases, our results are favorably impacted, while if demand for their products decreases, they may reduce their purchases of, or stop purchasing our products and our operating results would suffer. Even if we achieve a design win, our customers can delay or cancel the release of a new device for any reason. Most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their devices with little notice to us and with little or no penalty. The loss of a large customer, failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue, a shift in consumer demand to refurbished or secondhand devices, or a decline in consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones or other devices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the United States government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced. We receive a portion of our revenue from the United States government and from prime contractors on United States government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications. These programs are subject to delays or cancellation. Further, spending on defense and aerospace programs can vary significantly depending on funding from the United States government. We believe our government and defense and aerospace business has been negatively affected in the past by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. Reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We depend heavily on third parties. We purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers. We also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, assembly, test and tape and reel. In the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we entered into a definitive agreement with Luxshare to divest our assembly and test operations in China. In connection with this transaction, which was completed on May 2, 2024, Luxshare is providing assembly and test services to us under a long-term supply agreement. The use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and cost increases. Furthermore, supply chain disruptions and labor market constraints have created heightened risk that external suppliers may be unable to meet their obligations to us. If we experience any significant difficulty in obtaining the materials or services used in the conduct of our business, these supply challenges may limit our ability to fully satisfy customer demand. As the semiconductor industry may experience supply constraints for certain items, from time to time, we enter into certain supply agreements to address short-term and long-term supply requirements. However, even with supply agreements, we are still subject to risks that a supplier will be unable to meet its supply commitments, achieve anticipated manufacturing yields, produce wafers or other components on a timely basis, or provide additional capacity beyond contractual commitments sufficient to meet our supply needs. If so, we may experience delays in product launches or supply shortages for certain products, which could cause an unanticipated decline in our sales and damage our existing customer relationships and our ability to establish new customer relationships. In addition, if a supplier experiences financial difficulties or goes into bankruptcy, it could be difficult or impossible, or may require substantial time and expense, for us to recover any or all of our fees and deposits made as part of any supply agreement. Although our key suppliers commit to us to be compliant with applicable ISO 9001 and/or TS-16949 quality standards, we have experienced quality and reliability issues with suppliers in the past. Quality or reliability issues in our supply chain could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We face risks related to sales through distributors. We sell a significant portion of our products through third-party distributors. We depend on these distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders and stock our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. Our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited because our end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor due to advantages in the incumbent distributors technical support and favorable business terms related to payments, discounts and stocking of acceptable inventory levels. Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk and compliance risks. Other third parties may use one of our distributors to sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to incentivize the distributors to focus on the sale of our products. Our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws by our distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. Failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses and weaken our competitive position. We face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities. We operate wafer fabrication facilities in North Carolina, Oregon and Texas. We use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in Costa Rica, Germany and the U.S., to assemble and test our products. We currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in Costa Rica and the U.S., and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in Asia. A number of factors related to our facilities will affect our business and financial results, including the following: our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion, including the migration of production amongst our various factories, in response to changes in demand for our products; the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities; factory utilization rates; our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner; the availability of raw materials, the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing and tariffs imposed on raw materials, including substrates, gold, platinum and high-purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and palladium; our manufacturing cycle times; our manufacturing yields; the political, regulatory and economic risks associated with our international manufacturing operations; potential violations by our employees or third-party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations; our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel; our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations, as well as our ability to satisfy our customers' environmental initiatives for their supply chains; and our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason. 17 Table of Contents Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenue and increase our costs. Our worldwide operations and business could be, and in some cases have been, disrupted by natural disasters, industrial accidents, cybersecurity incidents, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions, public health issues (including pandemics such as COVID-19), terrorist attacks, political and/or civil unrest, acts of war or other military actions, political or regulatory issues and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events. Global climate change could result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms and flooding. We carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate, for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations. However, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses are uninsured or exceed insurance recoveries, and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers. Furthermore, even if our own operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers or suppliers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a business disruption, natural disaster or catastrophic event, customers may reduce or cancel their orders and suppliers may delay manufacturing and delivery of our products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. Our products have unique designs and are fabricated using multiple process technologies that are highly complex. In many cases, our products are assembled in customized packages. Many of our products consist of multiple components in a single module and feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity. Our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability. Our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields. Defects in a single component in an assembled module product can impact the yield for the entire module, which means the adverse economic impacts of an individual defect can be multiplied many times over if we fail to discover the defect before the module is assembled. Due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products. Furthermore, as our customers test our products once assembled into their products, we may be exposed to additional quality issues and costs. The number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: design errors; defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer); minute impurities and variations in materials used; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure or variations in manufacturing processes; losses arising from human error; and defects in substrates and packaging. We constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields. Typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower and our operating results are adversely affected. Costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications can include the following: writing off inventory; 18 Table of Contents scrapping products that cannot be reworked; accepting returns of products that have been shipped; providing product replacements at no charge; reimbursement of direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling or reworking their products due to defects in our products; travel and personnel costs to investigate potential product quality issues and to identify or confirm the failure mechanism or root cause of product defects; and defending against litigation. These costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins. Our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results. We are subject to inventory risks and costs because we purchase materials and build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest end customers, we purchase materials and start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. These forecasts, however, do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to, or consumed by, the customer. As a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. Because demand for our products may not materialize, or may be lower than expected, purchasing materials and manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence, and higher operating costs. These inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers accumulated levels of inventory. In fiscal 2022, amidst industry-wide supply constraints, we entered into a long-term capacity reservation agreement with a foundry supplier to purchase a certain number of silicon wafers for each year over a term of five years. In periods subsequent to fiscal 2022, we experienced unexpectedly weakened demand for 5G handsets in China and EMEA resulting, in part, from measures taken in China to control the COVID-19 pandemic, and the war in Ukraine. As a result, the minimum purchase commitments in the agreement exceeded our forecasted demand and we recorded total charges of $181.0 million to "Cost of goods sold" over the course of fiscal 2023 based on the actual and estimated purchase shortfalls. During fiscal 2024, the agreement was terminated effective December 31, 2023, and we are no longer obligated to order silicon wafers from the foundry supplier. Total charges of $38.4 million were recorded to "Cost of goods sold" in fiscal 2024, primarily due to a contract termination fee. Future circumstances may warrant us to enter into similar agreements, and to the extent management's estimates of anticipated future demand are incorrect, we may incur charges which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results. We sell certain of our products based on reference designs of chipset suppliers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business. Chipset suppliers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for OEMs and ODMs that include the chipset supplier's baseband and other complementary products. A chipset supplier may own or control IP that gives it a strong market position for its baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of RF products for these standards. Chipset suppliers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide RF products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other RF companies to have our products included in the chipset supplier's system reference design. This market dynamic has evolved as chipset suppliers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own RF technologies and components. 19 Table of Contents Chipset suppliers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor. Accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors. Because chipset suppliers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive RF technologies or their own RF solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with OEMs and ODMs that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. This requires us to work more closely with OEMs and ODMs to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices. Our relationships with chipset suppliers are complex, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to innovate. We compete with companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling RF solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete ICs and modules. In addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest end customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products. Increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. Many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with OEMs, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established IP rights and substantial technological capabilities. In addition, the increasing use of machine learning and artificial intelligence ("AI") to meet evolving industry requirements comes with inherent risks, including timely adoption and incorporation of these technologies into our business strategy to stay competitive. The semiconductor industry has experienced increased industry consolidation over the last several years, a trend we expect to continue. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do. Further, our competitors may secure substantially more government incentives and grants, such as funding available to U.S. semiconductor manufacturers under the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors and Science Act. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. Overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. It is difficult to predict future demand for our products and to estimate future requirements for production capacity in order to avoid periods of overcapacity. Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products also can lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market. Capacity expansion projects have long lead times and require capital commitments based on forecasted product trends and demand well in advance of production orders from customers. In recent years, we have made significant capital investments to expand our premium filter capacity to address forecasted future demand patterns. In certain cases, these capacity additions exceeded the near-term demand requirements, leading to overcapacity situations and underutilization of our manufacturing facilities. As many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenue experienced during periods of underutilization. Global macroeconomic conditions could create weakness in demand, which may result in elevated inventory levels at our customers, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities and higher inventory costs which adversely affects our gross margin and other operating results. If demand for our products experiences a prolonged decrease, we may be required to close or idle facilities and write down our long-lived assets or shorten the useful lives of underutilized assets and accelerate depreciation, which would increase our expenses. For example, to address manufacturing overcapacity, we idled a BAW manufacturing facility in Texas in fiscal 2021, and subsequently sold the facility in fiscal 2024. These actions resulted in impairment charges and other restructuring-related charges and expenses. To the extent management's estimates of anticipated future demand or production capacity are incorrect, our manufacturing facilities may be underutilized which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 20 Table of Contents Unfavorable changes in interest rates, pricing of certain precious metals, utility rates and foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may utilize hedging strategies from time to time to mitigate the impact due to underlying exposures such as interest rates, precious metal prices, utility rates, or currency exchange rates. However, the impact from these underlying exposures cannot always be predicted or hedged, and there can be no assurance that our hedging strategies will be effective in minimizing risk. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic investments could fail to achieve our financial or strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business and adversely impact our results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions, divestitures and strategic investments. These opportunities can enhance our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities. In the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities. Such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock. Acquisitions, divestitures and strategic investments also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: failure to complete a transaction in a timely manner, if at all, due to our inability to obtain required government or other approvals, IP disputes or other litigation, difficulty in obtaining financing on terms acceptable to us, or other unforeseen factors; controls, processes and procedures of an acquired business may not adequately ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and we may fail to identify compliance issues or liabilities; unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements; transaction-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; the potential loss of key employees from a company we acquire or in which we invest; diversion of managements attention from our business; disruption of our ongoing operations; dis-synergies or other harm to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; losses or impairment of investments from unsuccessful research and development by companies in which we invest; impairment of acquired intangible assets, goodwill or other assets as a result of changing business conditions or technological advancements; failure to successfully integrate or divest businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; slower than expected market adoption or attach rates for any of our new technologies; and unrealized expected synergies. Moreover, our resources are limited and our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our financial or strategic objectives. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition. 21 Table of Contents We must attract, retain, and motivate key employees in order to compete, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations. We must hire and retain qualified employees, continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions, expand our presence in international locations, adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations and train and motivate our employee base in order to compete effectively. Labor is further subject to external factors that are beyond our control, including our industry's highly competitive market for skilled workers and leaders, cost inflation and workforce participation rates. Our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, R&D and administrative support. We do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees. We must also continue to attract qualified personnel. The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in RF engineering, software engineering, integrated circuit and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. In addition, existing or new immigration laws, policies or regulations in the U.S. may limit the pool of available talent. Difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel could make it more onerous to effectively manage our international operations, operate as a global company or service our international customer base. Changes in the interpretation and application of employment-related laws to our workforce practices may also result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our changing workforce needs. Further, any transition from flexible work arrangements to more stringent on-site work requirements may result in higher employee attrition and make it more difficult for us to compete in the job market. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future, which could harm our business and our results of operations. We are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. From time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expense. We may also be exposed to such claims as a result of any acquisition we may undertake in the future. Although we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase product liability insurance, we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters and our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of such claims. Product liability insurance is subject to significant deductibles, and such insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect against all claims. If one of our customers recalls a product containing one of our devices, we may incur significant costs and expenses, including replacement costs, direct and indirect product recall-related costs, diversion of technical and other resources and reputational harm. Our customer contracts typically contain warranty and indemnification provisions, and in certain cases may also contain liquidated damages provisions, relating to product quality issues. The potential liabilities associated with such provisions are significant, and in some cases, including in agreements with some of our largest end customers, are potentially unlimited. Any such liabilities may greatly exceed any revenue we receive from sale of the relevant products. Costs, payments or damages incurred or paid by us in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to taxation in China, Germany, Singapore, the U.S. and numerous other foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations and impacted by a number of factors, including the following: changes in our overall profitability and the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates; changes in our operating structure, strategy and investment decisions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including those described in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; 22 Table of Contents adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; and changes in tax laws, domestic and foreign, or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income and cash flow for future periods. The enactment of international or domestic tax legislation, or changes in regulatory guidance, may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Corporate tax reform, base-erosion efforts and increased tax transparency continue to be high priorities in many tax jurisdictions in which we have business operations. In 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which included a number of changes to U.S. tax laws that impacted us, including the one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the "Transitional Repatriation Tax") and the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ("GILTI") provisions, for which a 50% deduction is currently permitted subject to certain limitations. This deduction changes to 37.5% for tax years beginning after January 1, 2026. In August 2022, the U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act ("IRA"), establishing a new book minimum tax of 15% on consolidated adjusted GAAP pre-tax earnings for corporations with average income in excess of $1 billion. In addition, other countries in which we operate are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Developments Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and action plan, which aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer pricing documentation rules, nexus-based tax incentive practices, allocating greater taxing rights to countries where customers are located and establishing a minimum tax of 15% on global income. The impact of the global minimum tax regime (Pillar Two) is effective for us in fiscal 2025 with additional components becoming effective in fiscal 2026. Legislative changes, interpretations and guidance, and changes in prior tax rulings and decisions by tax authorities regarding treatments and positions of corporate income taxes resulting from these initiatives, could increase complexity and tax uncertainty, increase our effective tax rate and result in taxes we previously paid being subject to change, which may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in Costa Rica and Singapore would have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our subsidiaries in Costa Rica and Singapore have been granted tax holidays that minimize our tax expense and are expected to be effective through December 2027 and December 2031, respectively. In their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenue through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. As part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays. Future changes in our tax holiday status could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. The overall benefit derived from our tax holidays could also be adversely impacted by the future implementation of minimum tax regimes in countries in which we operate. We are subject to risks associated with social, environmental, health and safety regulations, including those related to climate change. We are subject to a broad array of U.S. and foreign social, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations include those related to the use, transportation, storage, handling, emission, discharge and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing, assembly and testing processes. Additional laws and regulations include those related to human rights and supply chain due diligence. Such laws and regulations, as well as the associated frameworks for reporting, vary greatly by jurisdiction in which 23 Table of Contents we do business and are continually evolving. Our failure to comply with any of these existing or future laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties and fines; legal liabilities, including financial responsibility for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated; expenses to secure required permits and governmental approvals; reputational damage; suspension or curtailment of our manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and increased costs to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment or to modify our equipment, facilities or manufacturing processes to bring them into compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Existing and future laws and regulations could also impact our product designs and limit or restrict the materials or components that are included in our products. In addition, many of our largest end customers require companies within their supply chain to comply with corporate social responsibility policies that exceed applicable legal requirements, and often include employment, human rights, health, safety, and environmental initiatives. Further, an increasing number of investors are also expecting companies to disclose environmental, social and governance ("ESG") policies, practices and metrics, on topics such as climate change, carbon emissions, water usage, waste management, and human capital. Compliance with these policies increases our operating expenses, and non-compliance can adversely affect customer and investor relationships and harm our business and the price of our common stock. Regulations in the U.S. currently require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. We may face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently make any required determination that the metals used in our products are conflict-free. New climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or procure substitute raw materials that may cost more or be more difficult to procure. In addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in increased costs for us and our suppliers. Finally, there is increasing legislation globally which will require us to align programs to the expectations of investors, customers or other stakeholders and disclose an increasing amount of information and data to illustrate our position and progress. If we do not adapt our strategy or execution quickly enough to meet the evolving expectations of our investors, customers, and regulators, or if our ESG data input, processing and reporting are incomplete or inaccurate, our business, financial condition, results of operations, brand and reputation could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our International Sales and Operations We are subject to risks from international sales and operations. We operate globally with sales offices and R&D activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and test facilities in multiple countries, and some of our business activities are concentrated in Asia. As a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the U.S., including: global and local economic, social and political conditions and uncertainty; currency controls and currency exchange rate fluctuations; inflation, as well as changes in existing and expected rates of inflation, which vary across the jurisdictions in which we do business; 24 Table of Contents formal or informal imposition of export, import or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, tariffs and other related restrictions; labor market conditions and workers rights affecting our manufacturing operations or those of our customers or suppliers; disruptions in capital and securities and commodities trading markets; occurrences of geopolitical crises such as terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability, or global hostilities such as the war in Ukraine and the ongoing conflict in the Middle East, may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications and result in reduced demand for our products; compliance with laws and regulations that differ among jurisdictions, including those covering taxes, IP ownership and infringement, imports and exports, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, antitrust and competition, cybersecurity, data privacy, and social, environment, health, and safety; markets for 5G infrastructure not developing in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, including as a result of unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations worldwide; and pandemics and similar major health concerns, which could adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns. Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 42% of our revenue in fiscal 2024, of which approximately 19% was attributable to sales to customers located in China. We expect revenue from international sales to China and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue. Any weakness in the Chinese economy, heightened tensions between the U.S. and China, China and Taiwan, or other countries, could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. The imposition by the U.S. of tariffs on goods imported from China, countermeasures imposed by China in response, U.S. export restrictions on sales of products to China and other government actions that restrict or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell our products to customers in China may have a material adverse impact on our business, including our ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components and materials. As a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. The functional currency for most of our international operations is the U.S. dollar. We have foreign operations in Asia, Europe and Central America. Our international revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the Costa Rican Colon, Euro, Renminbi and Singapore Dollar. If the U.S. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into U.S. dollars. Economic regulation in China could adversely impact our business and results of operations. For many years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid growth and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation. In response to these factors, the Chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and to contain inflation, including currency controls and measures designed to restrict credit, control prices or set currency exchange rates. Such actions in the future, as well as other changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including actions in furtherance of Chinas stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers, could increase the cost of doing business in China (where a significant portion of our assembly and test services are performed), foster the emergence of China-based competitors, decrease the demand for our products in China and reduce the supply of critical materials for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Changes in government trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs and export restrictions, have limited and could continue to limit our ability to sell or provide our products and other items to certain customers and suppliers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The U.S. and foreign governments have taken and may continue to take administrative, legislative or regulatory action that could materially interfere with our ability to export, reexport, import and transfer products and other items to certain countries, particularly China. For example, the imposition of tariffs has resulted in higher duties owed on certain products that are imported from China to the United States. Furthermore, we have experienced and may continue to experience restrictions on our ability to export, reexport, and transfer our products and other items to certain foreign customers and suppliers where exports, reexports, or transfers of products require export licenses or are prohibited by government action. The U.S. government has in the past imposed export restrictions that effectively banned American companies from exporting, reexporting, and transferring products to certain of our customers, and imposed significant restrictions on the ability to obtain export licenses for our products. Such restrictions could have a continuing negative impact on our future revenue and results of operations. In addition, our customers or suppliers affected by U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors' solutions and products. Importantly, governments such as China have the ability to impose countermeasures in reaction to increasing U.S. government sanctions and restrictions imposed on their companies which may impact our operations and future revenue as the compliance landscape becomes more challenging. We cannot predict what further actions may ultimately be taken with respect to tariffs, export restrictions or other trade measures between the U.S. and China or other countries, what products or entities may be subject to such actions, or what actions may be taken by other countries in response. The loss of foreign customers or suppliers or the imposition of restrictions on our ability to sell or transfer products to such customers or suppliers as a result of tariffs, export restrictions or other U.S. regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our sales, business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt or to fund capital expenditures and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations and financing requirements, which may not be successful or on terms favorable to us. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay our debt. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may face liquidity issues and be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations. Additionally, the indentures governing our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations. Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt at or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The credit agreement governing our revolving facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: incur additional debt; 26 Table of Contents pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; incur or permit to exist certain liens; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to comply with a financial maintenance covenant. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenant contained in our revolving facility. If we violate covenants under our credit agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. Because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt. If our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Cybersecurity, Information Technology and Data Privacy We rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our IP rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. Further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors. Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. This increases the possibility of misappropriation or infringement of our technology and products. Although we intend to vigorously defend our IP rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. The use of AI and machine learning applications by our employees may also increase the risk of unintended or inadvertent transmission of proprietary or sensitive information. We may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our IP rights. Generally, IP litigation is both expensive and unpredictable. Our involvement in IP litigation could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel and have a material, adverse effect on our business. 27 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Our operating results may be adversely affected if third parties were to assert claims that our products infringed their patent, copyright or other IP rights. Such assertions could lead to expensive and unpredictable litigation, diverting the attention of management and technical personnel. An unsuccessful result in any such litigation could have adverse effects on our business, which may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties. In addition, if one of our customers or another supplier to one of our customers were found to be infringing on third-party IP rights, such a finding could adversely affect the demand for our products. Security breaches, failed system upgrades or regular maintenance and other disruptions to our IT systems, or other misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to liability or disrupt our ability to operate critical business functions, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. We rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities to provide us with competitive advantages. We protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other third parties. We also design our computer systems and networks and implement various procedures to restrict unauthorized access to, or dissemination of, our proprietary information. We face internal and external data security threats. Current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to copy, obtain or misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business. We are also subject to significant system or network disruptions from numerous causes, including computer viruses and other cyber-attacks, facility access issues, new system implementations and energy blackouts. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine and the tensions between China and Taiwan, may create a heightened risk of cybersecurity incidents. We have, from time to time, experienced threats to and breaches of our data and systems. Security breaches, computer malware, phishing, spoofing and other cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, detect, or counter all of these techniques or identify all security vulnerabilities. Evolving AI capabilities could be used in new and significantly more sophisticated ways to identify vulnerabilities, craft targeted social engineering and fraud attempts, generate malicious code and launch phishing attempts or other cyber-attacks. As a result, our and our customers proprietary information may be misappropriated, and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. Any misappropriation could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident and divert management and other resources. We routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the security of our IT systems. We cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions. Furthermore, we rely on products and services provided by third-party suppliers, which may include open-source code, to operate certain critical business systems, including without limitation, cloud-based infrastructure, encryption and authentication technology, employee email and other functions, which exposes us to supply chain attacks or other business disruptions. The use of AI applications could increase the risk of cybersecurity incidents, such as through unintended or inadvertent transmissions of proprietary or sensitive information. We cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our partners supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our IT systems, including our products and services, or the third-party IT systems that support our services. Our ability to identify all security vulnerabilities and monitor these third-parties information security practices is limited, and these third parties may not have adequate information security measures in place. In addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security breach, our response may be limited or more difficult because we may not have direct access to their systems, logs and other information related to the security breach. 28 Table of Contents If any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the costs related to cyber-attacks or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws and regulations related to cybersecurity incidents may be costly, and any failure to comply could result in investigations, proceedings, lawsuits and reputational damage. Occurrence of any of the events described above could also result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our R&D efforts or our IP. Moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products, product development delays, or diversion of the attention of management and key IT and other resources, or otherwise adversely affect our operations and reputation. We may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data by or about our employees, customers or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. In the ordinary course of our business, we have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information regarding our employees and others that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations, as well as our own policies and standards. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business, or by our third-party service providers, including business process software applications providers and other vendors that have access to sensitive data, could result in damage to our reputation, disruption of our business activities, significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. Global privacy legislation, enforcement and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. For example, the European Union has adopted the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), which requires companies to comply with rules regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. China has also implemented laws and regulations requiring companies' IT security environment to meet certain standards and may require unique certifications. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. Complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged non-compliant activity. Finally, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in audits, regulatory inquiries or proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. Risks Related to Owning our Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult, a change in control of Qorvo that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: granting to the board of directors' sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and 29 Table of Contents the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. In addition, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contains provisions that regulate "business combinations" between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporations voting stock, except under certain circumstances. These provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors. Further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. The price of our common stock has recently been and may in the future be volatile. The price of our common stock, which is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: general market and economic and political conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry; actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results; pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and similar major health concerns; differences between actual operating results and those expected by management, investors and analysts; changes in recommendations by securities analysts, social media or press; operations and stock performance of competitors and major customers; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill and restructuring; significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, capital commitments, or new products announced by us or by our competitors; differences, whether actual or perceived, between our corporate social responsibility and ESG practices and disclosure and investor expectations; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; repurchases of our common stock; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and loss of key customers. We cannot assure that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY. We recognize the critical importance of maintaining the safety and security of our systems and data and have a cross-organizational approach to addressing cybersecurity risk. We are committed to maintaining robust governance and oversight of cybersecurity risk and have implemented mechanisms, controls, technologies and processes designed to help us assess, identify and manage these risks. The Board of Directors, its Audit Committee and our management, including our Chief Information Officer (CIO) and Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), contribute to our cybersecurity and risk management processes designed to help us respond in a timely and effective manner to emerging threats in a dynamic cybersecurity landscape. Cybersecurity risks are identified as part of our Enterprise Risk Management Program and regular cybersecurity assessment and planning. We aim to incorporate industry best practices throughout our cybersecurity program. Our cybersecurity strategy focuses on implementing effective and efficient controls, technologies and other processes to assess, identify and manage cybersecurity risks. We engage with industry groups for benchmarking and awareness of cybersecurity best practices. We monitor internal and external cybersecurity developments that may affect our systems and our supply chain partners' systems, and have procedures to assess those issues for potential cybersecurity impact or risk. The Audit Committee oversees managements processes for identifying and mitigating risks, including cybersecurity risks, to help align our risk exposure with our strategic objectives. Senior leadership, our CIO and our CISO regularly brief the Audit Committee on cybersecurity matters. In its oversight role, the Audit Committee receives reports on cybersecurity, including internal and external cybersecurity audits, on at least a quarterly basis. We have procedures led by our CISO which govern our assessment, response and notification of internal and external parties upon the occurrence of a cybersecurity incident. Depending on the nature and severity of an incident, this process provides for escalating notification to our executive team, to evaluate the overall impact and appropriate or required external notifications. Based on its nature and severity, the Audit Committee would be informed of an incident by our executive team. Our CISO reports to the CIO and is generally responsible for management of cybersecurity risk and the protection and defense of our networks and systems. The CISO works with a team of cybersecurity professionals with broad experience and expertise, including in cybersecurity threat assessments and detection, mitigation technologies, cybersecurity training, incident response, cyber forensics, insider threats and regulatory compliance. This team manages and works to enhance the IT security structure with the goal of preventing significant cybersecurity incidents and increasing the resilience of our systems to minimize the business impact should an incident occur. Our CISO is informed about and monitors prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation efforts through regular communication and reporting from professionals on the information security team. We have devoted significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures to meet regulatory requirements, customer expectations, business priorities and emerging cybersecurity risks, and we expect to continue to make investments to maintain the security of our data and infrastructure. The underlying controls of the cyber risk management program are based on industry standards for cybersecurity and IT, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) frameworks and ISO 27001 requirements, although this does not mean that we meet all technical standards, specifications or requirements under NIST or ISO 27001 standards. In addition, we provide awareness training to our employees to help identify, avoid and mitigate cybersecurity threats and to remind them of the importance of handling and protecting our information. We engage third-parties to conduct evaluations of our security controls, including testing both the design and operational effectiveness of our controls. We also participate in cybersecurity information-sharing with our peers, industry groups and government agencies. We rely heavily on our supply chain to deliver our products and services to our customers, and a cybersecurity incident at a supplier, subcontractor or business partner could materially adversely impact us. We require our key suppliers to comply with our security terms and conditions, in addition to any requirements from our customers, as a condition of doing business with us and require each to notify us in the event of any known or suspected cyber incident. We face numerous cybersecurity risks in connection with our business. Such risks can impact our systems, results of operations and financial condition. We have, from time to time, experienced threats to and breaches of our data 31 Table of Contents and systems, including malware, ransomware and computer viruses. Our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and business partners face similar cybersecurity threats, and a cybersecurity incident impacting us or any of these entities could materially adversely affect our operations, performance and results of operations. As of the date of this Form 10-K, we have not identified any risks from cybersecurity threats that have materially affected our business strategy, our results of operations or our financial condition. For more information about the cybersecurity risks we face and the potential impacts on our Company due to a cybersecurity incident, please refer to Item 1A - Risk Factors - "Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Cybersecurity and Information Technology and Data Privacy". ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. Our corporate headquarters (owned) is located in Greensboro, North Carolina. The following table sets forth our primary production facilities as of March 30, 2024: Location Owned/Leased Primary Function Greensboro, North Carolina Owned Wafer fabrication Hillsboro, Oregon Owned Wafer fabrication Richardson, Texas Owned Wafer fabrication, assembly and test Beijing, China (1) Owned Module assembly and test Dezhou, China Leased Module assembly and test Heredia, Costa Rica Owned Module and filter assembly and test Nuremberg, Germany Leased Packaging and test (1) We hold land-use rights for the land associated with this property. In the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we entered into a definitive agreement with Luxshare to divest our assembly and test operations in Beijing and Dezhou. In connection with this transaction, which was completed on May 2, 2024, Luxshare is providing assembly and test services to us under a long-term supply agreement. In fiscal 2021, we idled a BAW manufacturing facility (owned) in Farmers Branch, Texas, which was subsequently sold in fiscal 2024. We believe our properties have been well-maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain all equipment and facilities necessary to operate at present levels. While we believe all our facilities are suitable and adequate for our present purposes, we continually evaluate our business and facilities and may decide to expand, add or dispose of facilities in the future. The majority of our production facilities are shared by our operating segments. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. See the information under the heading "Legal Matters" in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not Applicable. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "QRVO." As of May 13, 2024, there were 618 holders of record of our common stock, which does not include beneficial owners of stock held in street name (i.e., through a brokerage firm, bank, broker-dealer, trust or other similar organization). We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to invest in the growth and operation of our business and do not intend to pay any dividends for the 32 Table of Contents foreseeable future. Any future determination related to our dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors. The following graph and table compare the cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Semiconductors Index for the five years ended March 30, 2024. The graph and table assume an initial investment of $100 was made on March 30, 2019 in each of our common stock and the indexes, reflecting compounded daily returns as well as reinvestment of all dividends. The indexes are reweighted daily using the market capitalization on the previous trading day. The comparisons in the graph and table are based on historical data and are not indicative of, or intended to forecast, the possible future performance of our common stock. PERFORMANCE GRAPH March 30, 2019 March 28, 2020 April 3, 2021 April 2, 2022 April 1, 2023 March 30, 2024 Qorvo, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 112.49 $ 268.93 $ 169.40 $ 141.60 $ 160.09 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 93.02 $ 145.44 $ 168.20 $ 155.20 $ 201.57 S&P 500 Semiconductors $ 100.00 $ 106.69 $ 188.30 $ 240.08 $ 232.90 $ 494.08 The graph and the table above shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC for the purpose of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings made by us with the SEC, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing. 33 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total number of shares purchased (in thousands) Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (in thousands) Approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (in millions) December 31, 2023 to January 27, 2024 139 $ 105.32 139 $ 1,390.3 January 28, 2024 to February 24, 2024 368 110.29 368 1,349.7 February 25, 2024 to March 30, 2024 388 115.38 388 1,305.0 Total 895 $ 111.72 895 $ 1,305.0 On November 2, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock, which included the remaining authorized dollar amount under a prior program terminated concurrent with the new authorization. Under the current program, share repurchases are made in accordance with applicable securities laws on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which we repurchase our shares, the number of shares and the timing of any repurchases depends on general market conditions, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other considerations. The program does not require us to repurchase a minimum number of shares, does not have a fixed term, and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time without prior notice. Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. As of January 1, 2023, our share repurchases in excess of issuances are subject to a 1% excise tax enacted by the IRA. The excise tax is recognized as part of the cost basis of shares acquired in the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for fiscal years 2024 and 2023 and is excluded from amounts presented above. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our audited consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Qorvo is a global leader in the development and commercialization of technologies and products for wireless, wired and power markets. We design, develop, manufacture and market our products to U.S. and international OEMs and ODMs in three reportable operating segments: HPA, CSG and ACG. HPA is a leading global supplier of RF, analog mixed signal and power management solutions. CSG is a leading global supplier of connectivity and sensor solutions, with broad expertise spanning UWB, Matter, Bluetooth Low Energy, Zigbee, Thread, Wi-Fi, cellular IoT and MEMS-based sensors. ACG is a leading global supplier of cellular RF solutions for smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and other devices. Fiscal 2024 Overview Revenue increased 5.6% in fiscal 2024 to $3,769.5 million, compared to $3,569.4 million in fiscal 2023, driven by content gains at our largest end customer and higher demand for our defense and aerospace products. Gross margin for fiscal 2024 was 39.5%, compared to 36.3% in fiscal 2023, driven by lower charges associated with a long-term capacity reservation agreement and improved factory utilization. Operating income was $91.7 million in fiscal 2024, compared to $183.2 million in fiscal 2023. This decrease was driven by goodwill impairment charges. Net loss per share was $0.72 for fiscal 2024, compared to net income per diluted share of $1.00 for fiscal 2023. 34 Table of Contents Operating activities in fiscal 2024 generated cash of $833.2 million, compared to $843.2 million in fiscal 2023. Capital expenditures were $127.2 million in fiscal 2024, compared to $159.0 million in fiscal 2023. We recorded $221.4 million in goodwill impairment charges due to revisions in long-term forecasts for a reporting unit within the CSG operating segment. We completed the acquisition of Anokiwave for a purchase price of $83.0 million, net of cash acquired. We repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock for approximately $403.0 million. We repurchased $60.3 million of the principal amount of our 1.750% senior notes due 2024 (the "2024 Notes"), plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the open market. We entered into a definitive agreement with Luxshare to divest our assembly and test operations in China. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated The table below presents a summary of our results of operations for fiscal years 2024 and 2023 along with a year-over-year comparison. Refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2023, filed with the SEC on May 19, 2023, which is incorporated by reference herein, for a summary of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2022 along with a year-over-year comparison between fiscal years 2023 and 2022. (In thousands, except percentages) Fiscal 2024 % of Revenue Fiscal 2023 % of Revenue Increase (Decrease) Percentage Change Revenue $ 3,769,506 100.0 % $ 3,569,399 100.0 % $ 200,107 5.6 % Cost of goods sold 2,281,011 60.5 2,272,457 63.7 8,554 0.4 Gross profit 1,488,495 39.5 1,296,942 36.3 191,553 14.8 Research and development 682,249 18.1 649,841 18.2 32,408 5.0 Selling, general and administrative 389,140 10.3 358,790 10.1 30,350 8.5 Other operating expense (1) 325,405 8.7 105,143 2.9 220,262 209.5 Operating income $ 91,701 2.4 % $ 183,168 5.1 % $ (91,467) (49.9) % (1) Other operating expense includes goodwill impairment charges of $221.4 million and $12.4 million for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. Revenue The increase in consolidated revenue resulted from a $394.2 million increase in ACG revenue and decreases in revenue of $154.2 million and $39.8 million, in HPA and CSG, respectively, which are further discussed in our Operating Segments results below. We provide products to our largest end customer (Apple) through sales to multiple contract manufacturers, which in the aggregate accounted for approximately 46% and 37% of total revenue in fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. Samsung accounted for approximately 12% of total revenue in both fiscal years 2024 and 2023. These customers primarily purchase RF solutions for a variety of mobile devices. International shipments amounted to $1,593.6 million in fiscal 2024 (approximately 42% of revenue) compared to $1,751.4 million in fiscal 2023 (approximately 49% of revenue). Shipments to Asia totaled $1,505.3 million in fiscal 2024 (approximately 40% of revenue) compared to $1,549.0 million in fiscal 2023 (approximately 43% of revenue). 35 Table of Contents Gross Margin The increase in gross margin in fiscal 2024 was driven by lower charges associated with a long-term capacity reservation agreement and improved factory utilization. In fiscal 2022, we entered into a long-term capacity reservation agreement with a foundry supplier to purchase a certain number of wafers through calendar year 2025. During fiscal 2023, the agreement was amended to extend the term through calendar year 2026, and we recorded charges of $181.0 million to "Cost of goods sold" based on the actual and estimated purchase shortfalls. During fiscal 2024, the agreement was terminated effective December 31, 2023, and we are no longer obligated to order silicon wafers from the foundry supplier. Total charges of $38.4 million were recorded to "Cost of goods sold" in the fiscal 2024 Consolidated Statement of Operations, primarily due to a contract termination fee. Operating Expenses Research and Development R&D expense increased in fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 driven by $33.5 million of higher employee-related costs (including salaries and benefits, incentive-based cash compensation and stock-based compensation expense). Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense increased in fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 due to $16.7 million of higher employee-related costs (including salaries and benefits, incentive-based cash compensation and stock-based compensation expense) and $11.8 million of higher professional fees. Other Operating Expense In fiscal 2024, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $221.4 million, restructuring-related charges of $92.8 million and $12.0 million of consulting expenses associated with a multiyear project to upgrade the core systems we use to run our business. In fiscal 2023, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $12.4 million and $114.1 million in other restructuring-related charges. Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on goodwill impairment charges and Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on restructuring-related charges. Operating Segments High Performance Analog (In thousands, except percentages) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Dollar Change Percentage Change Revenue $ 572,953 $ 727,187 $ (154,234) (21.2) % Operating income 82,501 198,820 (116,319) (58.5) Operating income as a % of revenue 14.4 % 27.3 % The $154.2 million decrease in HPA revenue was attributable to $135.5 million and $67.6 million decreases in infrastructure and power management revenue, respectively, driven by challenges in the global macroeconomic environment which negatively impacted demand for products in these markets in the first half of fiscal 2024. Over the course of fiscal 2024, demand for these products was also negatively impacted by higher channel inventory. The decrease in revenue was partially offset by a $44.5 million increase in defense and aerospace revenue. The decrease in HPA operating income was driven by lower revenue, the sale of products that were manufactured during periods of lower factory utilization and higher inventory-related charges. 36 Table of Contents Connectivity and Sensors Group (In thousands, except percentages) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Dollar Change Percentage Change Revenue $ 434,537 $ 474,364 $ (39,827) (8.4) % Operating loss (88,649) (72,080) (16,569) (23.0) Operating loss as a % of revenue (20.4) % (15.2) % The $39.8 million decrease in CSG revenue was attributable to a $43.0 million decrease in our connectivity components revenue. Challenges in the global macroeconomic environment negatively impacted demand for our connectivity components in the first half of fiscal 2024. In the second half of fiscal 2024, channel inventory levels improved and shipments of our connectivity components increased. The increase in CSG operating loss was due to lower revenue and an increase in operating expenses of $6.2 million. The increase in operating expenses was driven by employee-related costs (including salaries and benefits, as well as incentive-based cash compensation). Advanced Cellular Group (In thousands, except percentages) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Dollar Change Percentage Change Revenue $ 2,762,016 $ 2,367,848 $ 394,168 16.6 % Operating income 727,906 627,708 100,198 16.0 Operating income as a % of revenue 26.4 % 26.5 % The $394.2 million increase in ACG revenue was driven by content gains at our largest end customer. Challenges in the global macroeconomic environment negatively impacted demand for our advanced cellular products for mass market smartphones in the first half of fiscal 2024. Over the course of fiscal 2024, channel inventory levels improved, and in the second half of fiscal 2024 shipments of our advanced cellular products for mass market smartphones increased to more closely align with end market demand. The increase in ACG operating income was driven by higher revenue as described above. In fiscal 2024, ACG incurred additional product development costs and employee-related costs as a result of increased investment in developing new technologies and products; however, operating expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.5%. Refer to Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of segment operating income to the consolidated operating income for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022. INTEREST, OTHER INCOME AND INCOME TAXES Fiscal Year (In thousands) 2024 2023 Interest expense $ (69,245) $ (68,463) Other income, net 51,104 9,924 Income tax expense (143,882) (21,477) Interest expense During fiscal years 2024 and 2023, we recorded interest expense primarily related to the 4.375% senior notes due 2029 (the "2029 Notes"), the 3.375% senior notes due 2031 (the "2031 Notes") and the 2024 Notes. Interest expense in the preceding table for fiscal years 2024 and 2023 is net of capitalized interest of $2.9 million and $3.9 million, respectively. 37 Table of Contents Other income, net During fiscal 2024, we recorded interest income of $38.3 million, losses of $1.2 million based on our share of the earnings from our limited partnership investments and a net gain on debt extinguishment of $1.8 million. Interest income increased by $17.2 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 primarily due to higher interest rates on our cash balances. In addition, the fair value of invested funds under our non-qualified deferred compensation plan increased by $9.9 million (excluding participant contributions and withdrawals). Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our non-qualified deferred compensation plan. During fiscal 2023, we recorded interest income of $21.1 million, losses of $4.2 million based on our share of the earnings from our limited partnership investments and impairments and losses of $7.8 million from other investments. Income tax expense Income tax expense for fiscal 2024 was $143.9 million, which was primarily comprised of tax expense related to international operations generating pre-tax book income and the impact of GILTI, offset by a tax benefit related to domestic and international operations generating pre-tax book losses and domestic tax credits. During fiscal 2024, we also incurred incremental tax expense associated with the reversal of our permanent reinvestment assertion related to a fiscal 2024 restructuring initiative. This resulted in an annual effective tax rate of 195.6% for fiscal 2024. Income tax expense for fiscal 2023 was $21.5 million, which was primarily comprised of tax expense related to international operations generating pre-tax book income and the impact of GILTI (including the effects of the capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses which were previously expensed for U.S. tax purposes), offset by a tax benefit related to domestic and international operations generating pre-tax book losses and domestic tax credits. This resulted in an annual effective tax rate of 17.2% for fiscal 2023. A valuation allowance has been established against deferred tax assets in the taxing jurisdictions where, based upon the positive and negative evidence available, it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will not be realized. Realization is dependent upon generating future income in the taxing jurisdictions in which the operating loss carryovers, credit carryovers, depreciable tax basis and other deferred tax assets exist. Management reevaluates the ability to realize the benefit of these deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. As of the end of fiscal years 2024 and 2023, the valuation allowance against domestic and foreign deferred tax assets was $43.6 million and $35.9 million, respectively. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding income taxes. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 718, "Compensation Stock Compensation," stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award using an option pricing model for stock options (Black-Scholes) and market price for restricted stock units and is recognized as expense over the employee's requisite service period. As of March 30, 2024, total remaining unearned compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock units was $159.4 million, which will be amortized over the weighted-average remaining service period of approximately 1.4 years. Refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding stock-based compensation. 38 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash generated by operations is our primary source of liquidity. As of March 30, 2024, we had working capital of approximately $1,215.9 million, including $1,029.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, compared to working capital of approximately $1,474.0 million, including $808.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, as of April 1, 2023. Our $1,029.3 million of total cash and cash equivalents as of March 30, 2024, includes $752.0 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $507.5 million is held by Qorvo International Pte. Ltd. in Singapore. If the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are needed in the U.S., we may be required to pay state income and/or foreign local withholding taxes to repatriate these earnings. We may from time to time in the future seek to retire or make additional optional payments on our outstanding debt obligations through repurchases or exchanges of our outstanding notes, which may be effected through privately negotiated transactions, market transactions, tender offers, redemptions or otherwise. Such tenders, exchanges, purchases, or other transactions, if any, will be upon such terms and at such prices as we may determine, and will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. During fiscal 2024, we repurchased $60.3 million of the principal amount of our 2024 Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the open market. The remaining principal amount of the 2024 Notes of $439.7 million is included in "Current portion of long-term debt" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 30, 2024. Credit Agreement On September 29, 2020, we and certain of our U.S. subsidiaries (the "Guarantors") entered into a five-year unsecured senior credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement (as amended, restated, modified or otherwise supplemented from time to time, the "2020 Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A., acting as administrative agent, and a syndicate of lenders. The 2020 Credit Agreement amended and restated the previous credit agreement dated as of December 5, 2017. The 2020 Credit Agreement included a senior revolving line of credit (the "2020 Revolving Facility") of up to $300.0 million and a senior term loan that was fully repaid in fiscal 2022. The 2020 Revolving Facility was available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. During fiscal years 2024 and 2023, there were no borrowings under the 2020 Revolving Facility. The 2020 Credit Agreement contained various conditions, covenants and representations with which we had to be in compliance in order to borrow funds and to avoid an event of default. As of March 30, 2024, we were in compliance with these covenants. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the 2020 Credit Agreement. On April 23, 2024, we entered into a five-year unsecured senior credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer and a syndicate of lenders (the 2024 Credit Agreement), which replaced the 2020 Credit Agreement. The 2024 Credit Agreement provides for a $325.0 million senior revolving line of credit (the 2024 Revolving Facility). Up to $25.0 million of the 2024 Revolving Facility may be used for the issuance of standby letters of credit and up to $10.0 million of the 2024 Revolving Facility may be used for swing line advances (i.e., short-term borrowings made available from the lead lender). We may request at any time that the 2024 Revolving Facility be increased by up to $325.0 million, subject to securing additional funding commitments from existing or new lenders. The 2024 Revolving Facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes. The initial maturity date of the 2024 Revolving Facility is April 23, 2029, which may be extended by up to two years by exercising extension options provided in the 2024 Credit Agreement. At our option, loans under the 2024 Credit Agreement will bear interest at (i) the Applicable Rate (as defined in the 2024 Credit Agreement) plus Term SOFR (as defined in the 2024 Credit Agreement) or (ii) the Applicable Rate plus a rate equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate of Bank of America, N.A., or (c) Term SOFR plus 1.0% (the Base Rate). All swing line loans will bear interest at a rate equal to the Applicable Rate plus the Base Rate. Term SOFR is the rate per annum equal to the forward-looking SOFR term rate for interest 39 Table of Contents periods of one, three or six months, as selected by us, plus an adjustment of 0.10%. The Applicable Rate will be determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2024 Credit Agreement) or, at our option, the Debt Rating (as defined in the 2024 Credit Agreement). The Applicable Rate for Term SOFR loans ranges from 1.000% per annum to 1.750% per annum and will initially be set at 1.250% per annum until the delivery of our first compliance certificate to the lenders. The Applicable Rate for Base Rate loans ranges from 0.000% per annum to 0.750% per annum and will initially be set at 0.250% per annum until the delivery of our first compliance certificate to the lenders. Undrawn amounts under the 2024 Revolving Facility are subject to a commitment fee ranging from 0.125% to 0.275%. Interest for Term SOFR loans will be payable at the end of each applicable interest period or at three-month intervals, if such interest period exceeds three months. Interest for Base Rate loans will be payable quarterly in arrears. We will pay a letter of credit fee equal to the Applicable Rate multiplied by the daily amount available to be drawn under any letter of credit, a fronting fee and any customary documentary and processing charges for any letter of credit issued under the 2024 Credit Agreement. The 2024 Credit Agreement contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds and avoid an event of default, including a financial covenant that we must maintain a Consolidated Leverage Ratio not to exceed 3.50 to 1.00 as of the end of any of our fiscal quarters, provided that in connection with an acquisition in excess of $300.0 million, our maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio may increase on two occasions during the term of the 2024 Revolving Facility to 4.00 to 1.00, in each case for four consecutive fiscal quarters, beginning with the fiscal quarter in which such acquisition occurs. Stock Repurchases On November 2, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock, which included the remaining authorized dollar amount under a prior program terminated concurrent with the new authorization. Under the current program, share repurchases are made in accordance with applicable securities laws on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which we repurchase our shares, the number of shares and the timing of any repurchases depends on general market conditions, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other considerations. The program does not require us to repurchase a minimum number of shares, does not have a fixed term, and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time without prior notice. During fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, we repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares, 8.7 million shares and 7.3 million shares of our common stock for approximately $403.0 million, $862.2 million and $1,152.3 million, respectively (including transaction costs and excise tax, as applicable) under the prior and current share repurchase programs. As of March 30, 2024, approximately $1,305.0 million remains authorized for repurchases under the current share repurchase program. Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Operating activities in fiscal 2024 generated cash of $833.2 million, compared to $843.2 million in fiscal 2023. This decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to decreased profitability. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2024 was $136.5 million, compared to $153.4 million in fiscal 2023. During fiscal 2024, we received proceeds of $49.5 million, primarily from the sale of our BAW manufacturing facility in Farmers Branch, Texas, and our capital expenditures decreased by $31.7 million as compared to fiscal 2023. Additionally, we acquired Anokiwave in fiscal 2024, resulting in net cash outflows of $83.0 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2024 was $459.6 million, compared to $853.4 million in fiscal 2023. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower stock repurchases in fiscal 2024, partially offset by repurchases of our 2024 Notes. 40 Table of Contents Our future capital requirements may differ materially from those currently anticipated and will depend on many factors, including market acceptance of and demand for our products, acquisition opportunities, technological advances and our relationships with suppliers and customers. Based on current and projected levels of cash flows from operations, coupled with our existing cash and cash equivalents and availability from the 2024 Revolving Facility, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet both our short-term and long-term cash requirements. However, if there is a significant decrease in demand for our products, or if investments in our business outpace revenue growth, operating cash flows may be insufficient to meet our needs. If existing resources and cash from operations are not sufficient to meet our future requirements or if we perceive conditions to be favorable, we may seek additional debt or equity financing. Additional debt or equity financing could be dilutive to holders of our common stock. Further, we cannot be sure that additional debt or equity financing, if required, will be available on favorable terms, if at all. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commitments (in thousands) as of March 30, 2024, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments Due By Fiscal Period Total Payments 2025 2026-2027 2028-2029 2030 and thereafter Capital commitments (1) $ 64,720 $ 62,460 $ 2,260 $ $ Purchase obligations (2) 462,703 424,668 33,656 4,379 Leases 74,449 17,185 27,511 16,418 13,335 Long-term debt obligations (3) 2,397,747 508,246 133,438 109,813 1,646,250 Total $ 2,999,619 $ 1,012,559 $ 196,865 $ 130,610 $ 1,659,585 (1) Capital commitments represent obligations for the purchase of property and equipment, a majority of which are not recorded as liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet because we had not received the related goods or services as of March 30, 2024. (2) Purchase obligations represent payments due related to the purchase of materials and manufacturing services, a majority of which are not recorded as liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet because we had not received the related goods or services as of March 30, 2024. (3) Long-term debt obligations represent future cash payments of principal and interest over the life of the 2024 Notes, the 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes, including anticipated interest payments not recorded as liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 30, 2024. Debt obligations are classified based on their stated maturity date, and any future redemptions would impact our cash payments. Refer to Note10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other Contractual Obligations As of March 30, 2024, in addition to the amounts shown in the contractual obligations table above, we have $43.9 million of unrecognized income tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties which have been recorded as a liability. We are uncertain as to if, or when, such amounts may be settled. We also have an obligation related to the Transitional Repatriation Tax that we elected to pay over eight years. The remaining obligation of $3.6 million is recorded as a liability and is expected to be paid over the next two years. As discussed in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have two pension plans in Germany with a combined benefit obligation of approximately $9.6 million as of March 30, 2024. Pension benefit payments are not included in the schedule above due to the uncertainty regarding the amount and timing of any future cash outflows. Pension benefit payments were approximately $0.3 million in fiscal 2024 and are expected to be approximately $0.4 million in fiscal 2025. We also offer a non-qualified deferred compensation plan to eligible participants to defer and invest a specified percentage of their cash compensation. We record an obligation under the plan for the distributions to be made to participants upon certain triggering events. Although participants are required to make distribution elections at the time of enrollment, the amount and timing of any future cash outflows is uncertain until such triggering events occur. The total deferred compensation obligation as of March 30, 2024was $52.3 million, of which $2.3 million is estimated to be paid in fiscal 2025. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 41 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL PARENT AND GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION In accordance with the indentures governing the 2024 Notes, the 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes (together, the "Notes"), our obligations under the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several unsecured basis by the Guarantors, which are listed on Exhibit 22 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each Guarantor is 100% owned, directly or indirectly, by Qorvo, Inc. ("Parent"). A Guarantor can be released in certain customary circumstances. Our other U.S. subsidiaries and our non-U.S. subsidiaries do not guarantee the Notes (such subsidiaries are referred to as the "Non-Guarantors"). The following presents summarized financial information for the Parent and the Guarantors on a combined basis as of and for the periods indicated, after eliminating (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the Parent and Guarantors, and (ii) equity earnings from, and investments in, any Non-Guarantor. The summarized financial information may not necessarily be indicative of the financial position and results of operations had the combined Parent and Guarantors operated independently from the Non-Guarantors. Summarized Balance Sheets (in thousands) March 30, 2024 April 1, 2023 ASSETS Current assets (1) $ 803,900 $ 972,989 Non-current assets 2,311,618 2,398,287 LIABILITIES Current liabilities $ 727,138 $ 296,049 Long-term liabilities (2) 2,306,883 2,689,824 (1) Includes net amounts due from Non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $129.8 million and $379.5 million as of March 30, 2024 and April 1, 2023, respectively. (2) Includes net amounts due to Non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $597.3 million and $509.1 million as of March 30, 2024 and April 1, 2023, respectively. Summarized Statement of Operations (in thousands) Fiscal 2024 Revenue $ 1,073,492 Gross profit 162,178 Net loss (370,438) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to use judgment and estimates. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that are most critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are those that are both important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgment and estimates on the part of management. Our critical accounting policies are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventory Reserves. The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products within specific time horizons, generally 12 to 24 months. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory reserves are the same as those used in our revenue forecasts and are also consistent with the estimates used in our manufacturing plans to enable consistency between inventory valuations and build decisions. Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the inventory valuation process include a review of the customer base, 42 Table of Contents market conditions and customer acceptance of our products and technologies, as well as an assessment of the selling price in relation to the product cost. These valuations and estimates require significant judgment. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment charge that could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Historically, inventory reserves have fluctuated as new technologies have been introduced and customers demand has shifted. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our inventories. Property and Equipment. Periodically, we evaluate the period over which we expect to recover the economic value of our property and equipment, considering factors such as changes in machinery and equipment technology, our ability to re-use equipment across generations of process technology and historical usage trends. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter or longer than we had originally estimated, we adjust the rate of depreciation to reflect the revised useful lives of the assets. We assess property and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or the asset group may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include an adverse change in our use of the assets or an expectation that the assets will be sold or otherwise disposed. We assess the recoverability of the assets held and used by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining estimated useful lives against their respective carrying amounts. Assets identified as "held for sale" are recorded at the lesser of their carrying value or their fair market value less costs to sell. Impairment, if any, is based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. The process of evaluating property and equipment for impairment is highly subjective and requires significant judgment as we are required to make assumptions about items such as future demand for our products and industry trends. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment charge that could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Refer to Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our business held for sale and property and equipment, respectively. Business Acquisitions. We allocate the fair value of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded to goodwill. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. A number of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments are used in determining the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, particularly with respect to the intangible assets acquired. The valuation of intangible assets requires the use of valuation techniques such as the income approach. The income approach includes managements estimation of future cash flows (including expected revenue growth rates and profitability), the underlying product or technology life cycles and the discount rates applied to future cash flows. Judgment is also required in estimating the fair values of deferred tax assets and liabilities, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances, which are initially estimated as of the acquisition date, as well as inventory, property and equipment, pre-existing liabilities or legal claims, deferred revenue and contingent consideration, each as may be applicable. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition 43 Table of Contents date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. After the measurement period, any purchase price adjustments are recorded to the income statement. Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our business acquisitions. Goodwill Impairment Testing. In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other, goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment testing at least annually or when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate it is more likely than not an impairment exists. Management tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment as defined in ASC 280, Segment Reporting, or one level below an operating segment (component level) as determined by the availability of discrete financial information that is regularly reviewed by operating segment management or an aggregate of component levels of an operating segment having similar economic characteristics. If the carrying value of a reporting unit (including the value of goodwill) is greater than its estimated fair value, an impairment charge would be recorded for the amount that the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeded its fair value, up to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. As required by the Companys policy, goodwill is tested for impairment on the first day of our fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. During fiscal 2024, we completed interim assessments for goodwill impairment as management determined, based on revisions to long-term forecasts, it was more likely than not that the fair values of two of our reporting units (one within the HPA operating segment and one within the CSG operating segment) were below the carrying amounts. Our quantitative assessments considered both the income and market approaches to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit. Inherent in the fair value determinations are significant judgments and estimates, including assumptions about future revenue, profitability and cash flows, our operational plans and our interpretation of current economic indicators and market valuations. The income approach was based on the discounted cash flow method that used estimates of the reporting units' revenue growth rates and operating margins as part of our long-term planning process, taking into consideration, historical data and industry and market conditions. The discount rate used to determine the present value of future cash flows was based on the weighted-average cost of capital adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business-specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the ability to execute on the projected cash flows. The market approach estimated fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics. Based on an interim assessment, the resulting fair value of the reporting unit within the HPA operating segment was then compared to the carrying value and it was determined that the fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 20%. This reporting unit has $96.5 million of goodwill allocated to it, which represents less than 5% of our total goodwill. As the forecasted revenue for this reporting unit includes products with early-stage technologies, there is commercial risk of market adoption as well as the timing of the market adoption, and we may be at risk for impairment loss in the future if forecasts assumed in the fair value calculation are not realized. Additionally, there are certain risks inherent to our operations as described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Based on an interim assessment, it was determined that the reporting unit within the CSG operating segment was below its carrying value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $48.0 million (based on the income approach) in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. In the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we concluded that an impairment triggering event occurred for this same reporting unit within the CSG segment as new information was received regarding slower than expected market adoption for one of CSG's new technologies and lower attach rates for a second CSG technology (resulting in further revisions to the long-term forecasts of this reporting unit). We concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of this reporting unit was below its carrying amount, and a quantitative analysis was performed. The quantitative analysis (based on the income approach) resulted in a $173.4 million write-off of the remaining goodwill of this reporting unit. Our fiscal 2024 annual assessment was performed using a qualitative approach as of the first day of our fourth quarter (December 31, 2023) on our six reporting units with a remaining goodwill balance. In performing 44 Table of Contents qualitative assessments, we consider the following factors which could trigger a goodwill impairment review: (i) significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; (ii) significant changes in the manner or our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; (iii) significant negative industry or economic trends; (iv) a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and (v) a significant change in our market capitalization relative to our net book value. Based on our fiscal 2024 qualitative assessment, we concluded there were no events or circumstances that indicated it was more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit was less than its respective carrying value. Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our goodwill and intangible assets. Identified Intangible Assets. We amortize definite-lived intangible assets (including developed technology, customer relationships, technology licenses and trade names) on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Upon completion of development, in-process research and development assets are transferred to developed technology and are amortized over their useful lives. The asset balances relating to abandoned projects are impaired and expensed to research and development. We evaluate definite-lived intangible assets for impairment to determine whether facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. If such facts and circumstances exist, we assess the recoverability of identified intangible assets by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. Impairments, if any, are based on the excess of the carrying amounts over the fair value of those assets and occur in the period in which the impairment determination was made. When measuring impairment, we make significant assumptions and apply judgment in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, including annual revenue growth rates and a terminal year growth rate that reflects the inherent risk in future cash flows. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment charge that could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. No definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal years 2024, 2023 or 2022. Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our identified intangible assets. Revenue Recognition. Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. A majority of our revenue is recognized at a point in time, either on shipment or delivery of the product, depending on individual customer terms and conditions. We apply a five-step approach in determining the amount and timing of revenue to be recognized: (1) identifying the contract with a customer; (2) identifying the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determining the transaction price; (4) allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognizing revenue when the corresponding performance obligation is satisfied. Our revenue recognition accounting methodology contains uncertainties because it requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions and to apply judgment. For example, for arrangements that have multiple performance obligations, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) determine whether performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately; (2) determine the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation; (3) allocate the transaction price among the various performance obligations on a relative stand-alone selling-price basis; and (4) determine whether revenue for each performance obligation should be recognized at a point in time or over time. If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue or deferred revenue that we report in a particular period. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete discussion of our revenue recognition policies. 45 Table of Contents Income Taxes.In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments in the calculation of tax expense, the resultant tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets that arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets can be recovered, recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance if the deferred tax assets are ultimately estimated to not be recoverable. In this process, certain relevant criteria are evaluated including: the amount of income or loss in prior years, the existence of deferred tax liabilities that can be used to absorb deferred tax assets, the taxable income in prior carryback years that can be used to absorb net operating losses and credit carrybacks, future expected taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Changes in taxable income, market conditions, U.S. or international tax laws and other factors may change our judgment regarding whether we will be able to realize the deferred tax assets. These changes, if any, may require material adjustments to the net deferred tax assets and an accompanying reduction or increase in income tax expense which will result in a corresponding increase or decrease in net income in the period when such determinations are made. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding changes in the valuation allowance and net deferred tax assets. We also assess the likelihood that our tax reporting positions will ultimately be sustained. To the extent it is determined it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion, or all, of a tax reporting position will ultimately not be recognized and sustained, a provision for unrecognized tax benefit is provided by either reducing the applicable deferred tax asset or accruing an income tax liability. Our judgment regarding the sustainability of our tax reporting positions may change in the future due to changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. These changes, if any, may require material adjustments to the related deferred tax assets or accrued income tax liabilities and an accompanying reduction or increase in income tax expense which will result in a corresponding increase or decrease in net income in the period when such determinations are made. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our uncertain tax positions and the amount of unrecognized tax benefits.