ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that relate to our plans, objectives, estimates and goals. Statements expressing expectations regarding our future and projections relating to products, sales, revenues and earnings are typical of such statements and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, and estimate, and variations of such words and similar expressions, identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, including but not limited to: the ability of the parties to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement in a timely manner or at all and other risks described in the Registration Statement on Form S-4/A (File No. 333-195236) (the Form S-4) filed by the Company with the SEC and declared effective on July 30, 2014. All forward-looking statements are based on managements estimates, projections and assumptions as of the date hereof. Except as required under applicable law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. You should also read and consider the risk factors associated with each of the businesses of RFMD and TriQuint because these risk factors may affect the operations and financial results of the combined Company. These risk factors may be found under Part I, Item 1A of RFMDs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 29, 2014, and Part I, Item 1A of TriQuints Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, each of which is on file with the SEC. OVERVIEW Qorvo, Inc. ("Qorvo" or the Company), formerly known as Rocky Holding, Inc., is a Delaware holding company and was incorporated on December 13, 2013. The Company was formed for the purpose of effecting a strategic combination of RF Micro Devices, Inc., a North Carolina corporation (RFMD) and TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc., a Delaware corporation (TriQuint) through a merger of equals, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, dated as of February 22, 2014 and amended as of July 15, 2014, by and among RFMD, TriQuint and the Company (Merger Agreement), and as described in the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Form S-4) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 14, 2014, and as subsequently amended (File No. 333-195236). The Registration Statement was declared effective on July 30, 2014. On September 5, 2014, the shareholders of both RFMD and TriQuint approved the Merger Agreement at each company's special meeting of shareholders. Effective October 3, 2014, in connection with the Merger Agreement, Rocky Holding, Inc. amended its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and amended and restated its bylaws to reflect the new name of the Company, Qorvo. The Company's common stock is expected to be traded on the NASDAQ Global Stock Market under the ticker symbol "QRVO" following closing of the merger. RFMDs board of directors has selected the following individuals to serve on the Company's board of directors (the Board) following the closing: Daniel A. DiLeo, Jeffery R. Gardner and John R. Harding. TriQuints board of directors has selected the following individuals to serve on the Board following the closing: Charles Scott Gibson, David H.Y. Ho, Roderick D. Nelson and Dr. Walden C. Rhines. As previously announced, after closing, the Board also will include Robert A. Bruggeworth, Ralph G. Quinsey, who will serve as non-executive chairman, and Walter H. Wilkinson, Jr., who will serve as lead outside director. The Company has formed two direct subsidiaries, Trident Merger Sub Inc. and Rocky Merger Sub Inc. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Trident Merger Sub Inc. will merge with and into TriQuint, and Rocky Merger Sub Inc. will merge with and into RFMD (the Mergers). As a result of the Mergers, TriQuint and RFMD will each become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 9 Table of Contents The consummation of the business combination with TriQuint continues to be subject to certain regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions. We currently anticipate the merger will be completed during the second half of calendar year 2014. The Company has not commenced operations, has no significant assets or liabilities, and has not carried on any activities other than those incidental to its formation and the matters contemplated by the Merger Agreement. As of September 27, 2014, RFMD is the Companys sole stockholder and the Company does not hold any equity interest in any other legal entity. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys board of directors authorized the Company to issue 1,000 shares of the Companys common stock to RFMD for a total price of $100.