Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, should be read in conjunction with (1) our condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited) and the related notes included elsewhere in this report, and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 23, 2018. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, it is possible to identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipates, believes, contemplates, continue, could, estimates, expects, future, intends, likely, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, seek, should, target, or will, or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements about: our financial performance, including our revenues, costs, expenditures, growth rates, operating expenses and ability to generate positive cash flow to fund our operations and sustain profitability; anticipated technology trends, such as the use of cloud solutions; our ability to adapt to changing market conditions; economic and financial conditions, including volatility in foreign exchange rates; our ability to diversify our sources of revenues, including selling additional solutions to our existing customers and our ability to pursue new customers; the effects of increased competition in our market; our ability to innovate and enhance our cloud solutions and platform and introduce new solutions; our ability to effectively manage our growth; our anticipated investments in sales and marketing, our infrastructure, new solutions, and research and development, and acquisitions; maintaining and expanding our relationships with channel partners; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel, including sales and marketing personnel; our ability to successfully enter new markets and manage our international expansion; our expectations, assumptions and conclusions related to our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and our effective tax rate; and other factors discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in the sections titled Risk Factors and Management ' s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results, events and circumstances reflected in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors including those described in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements used herein. We cannot provide assurance that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. 25 Table of Contents Overview We are a pioneer and leading provider of a cloud-based platform delivering security and compliance solutions that enable organizations to identify security risks to their information technology (IT) infrastructures, help protect their IT systems and applications from ever-evolving cyber-attacks and achieve compliance with internal policies and external regulations. Our cloud solutions address the growing security and compliance complexities and risks that are amplified by the dissolving boundaries between internal and external IT infrastructures and web environments, the rapid adoption of cloud computing and the proliferation of geographically dispersed IT assets. Our integrated suite of security and compliance solutions delivered on our Qualys cloud platform enables our customers to identify their IT assets, collect and analyze large amounts of IT security data, discover and prioritize vulnerabilities, recommend remediation actions and verify the implementation of such actions. Organizations use our integrated suite of solutions delivered on our Qualys cloud platform to cost-effectively obtain a unified view of their security and compliance posture across globally-distributed IT infrastructures as our solution offers a single platform for information security, application security, endpoint, developer security and cloud teams. We were founded and incorporated in December 1999 with a vision of transforming the way organizations secure and protect their IT infrastructure and applications and initially launched our first cloud solution, Vulnerability Management (VM), in 2000. As VM gained acceptance, we introduced new solutions to help customers manage increasing IT security and compliance requirements. Today, the suite of solutions offered on our cloud platform, which we refer to as the Qualys Cloud Apps, includes: Asset Inventory (AI), CMDB Sync (SYN), VM, Continuous Monitoring (CM), Cloud Agent Platform (CAP), Threat Protection (TP), Security Configuration Assessment (SCA), Indication of Compromise (IOC), Policy Compliance (PC), PCI Compliance (PCI), Security Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ), File Integrity Monitoring (FIM), Web Application Scanning (WAS) and Web Application Firewall (WAF). Our VM solutions (including VM, AI, SYN, CM, TP, Cloud Agent for VM, allocated scanner revenue and Qualys Private Cloud Platform) have provided a substantial majority of our revenues to date, representing 74% of our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018. We provide our solutions through a software-as-a-service model, primarily with renewable annual subscriptions. These subscriptions require customers to pay a fee in order to access our cloud solutions. We invoice our customers for the entire subscription amount at the start of the subscription term, and the invoiced amounts are treated as deferred revenues and are recognized ratably over the term of each subscription. We continue to experience signifi cant revenue growth from existing customers as they renew and purchase additional subscriptions . Our revenues increased to $64.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 from $53.1 million for the comparable period in 2017 , representing an increase of $11.8 million or 22% . 26 Table of Contents Key Metric In addition to measures of financial performance presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we monitor the key metric set forth below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational efficiencies. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands, except percentages) Adjusted EBITDA $ 24,618 $ 16,808 Percentage of revenues 38 % 32 % Adjusted EBITDA We monitor Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to analyze our financial results and believe that it is useful to investors, as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance and enhancing an overall understanding of our past financial performance. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA helps illustrate underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the income or expenses that we exclude in Adjusted EBITDA. Furthermore, we use this measure to establish budgets and operational goals for managing our business and evaluating our performance. We also believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our recurring core business operating results over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income before (1) other (income) expense, net, which includes interest income, interest expense and other income and expense, (2) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (3) depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, (4) amortization of intangible assets, (5) stock-based compensation, (6) non-recurring expenses and (7) acquisition-related expenses that do not reflect ongoing costs of operating the business. The following unaudited table presents the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Net income $ 9,142 $ 21,930 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment 6,410 4,727 Amortization of intangible assets 633 93 Interest expense 38 2 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 509 (13,821 ) EBITDA 16,732 12,931 Stock-based compensation 8,891 4,332 Other (income) expense, net (1,283 ) (455 ) Acquisition-related expense (1) 278 Adjusted EBITDA $ 24,618 $ 16,808 (1) Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2018 excludes approximately $0.3 million of compensation expense from the acquisition of NetWatcher. 27 Table of Contents Limitations of Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain cash and non-cash charges that are recurring; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect income tax payments that reduce cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently or not at all, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should be considered alongside other financial performance measures, including revenues, net income, cash flows from operating activities and our financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenues We derive revenues from the sale of subscriptions to our security and compliance solutions, which are delivered on our cloud platform. Subscriptions to our solutions allow customers to access our cloud-based security and compliance solutions through a unified, web-based interface. Customers generally enter into one year renewable subscriptions. The subscription fee entitles the customer to an unlimited number of scans for a specified number of devices or web applications and, if requested by a customer as part of their subscription, a specified number of physical or virtual scanner appliances. Our physical and virtual scanner appliances are requested by certain customers as part of their subscriptions in order to scan IT infrastructures within their firewalls and do not function without, and are not sold separately from, subscriptions for our solutions. In some limited cases, we also provide certain computer equipment used to extend our Qualys cloud platform into our customers private cloud environment. Customers are required to return physical scanner appliances and computer equipment if they do not renew their subscript ions. We typically invoice our customers for the entire subscription amount at the start of the subscription term. Invoiced amounts are reflected on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as accounts receivable or as cash when collected, and as deferred revenues until earned and recognized ratably over the subscription period. Accordingly, deferred revenues represent the amount billed to customers that has not yet been earned or recognized as revenues, pursuant to subscriptions entered into in current and prior periods. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for employees who operate our data centers and provide support services to our customers. Other expenses include depreciation of data center equipment and physical scanner appliances and computer hardware provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions, expenses related to the use of third-party data centers, amortization of third-party technology licensing fees, amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions, maintenance support, fees paid to contractors who supplement or support our operations center personnel and overhead allocations. We expect to continue to make capital investments to expand and support our data center operations, which will increase the cost of revenues in absolute dollars. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for our research and development teams. Other expenses include third-party contractor fees, amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions and overhead allocations. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development in an effort to continuously improve our existing solutions as well as develop new solutions and capabilities and expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars. 28 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, sales commissions, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation for our worldwide sales and marketing teams. Other expenses include marketing and promotional events, lead-generation marketing programs, public relations, travel, software licenses and overhead allocations. All costs are expensed as incurred, including sales commissions. Sales commissions are expensed in the quarter in which the related order is received and are paid in the month subsequent to the end of that quarter, which results in increased expenses prior to the recognition of related revenues. Our new sales personnel are typically not immediately productive, and the resulting increase in sales and marketing expenses we incur when we add new personnel may not result in increased revenues if these new sales personnel fail to become productive. The timing of our hiring of sales personnel, or the participation in new marketing events or programs, and the rate at which these generate incremental revenues, may affect our future operating results. We expect to continue to significantly invest in additional sales personnel worldwide and also in more marketing programs to support new solutions on our platform, which will increase sales and marketing expenses in absolute dollars. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for our executive, finance and accounting, legal and human resources teams, as well as professional services, insurance, fees, and software licenses. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to add personnel and incur professional services to support our growth and compliance with legal requirements. Other Income (Expense), Net Our other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest and investment income from our short-term and long-term investments; foreign exchange gains and losses, the majority of which result from fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, British Pound and Indian Rupee; losses on disposal of property and equipment; and impairment of long-lived assets. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to federal, state and foreign income taxes for jurisdictions in which we operate, and we use estimates in determining our provision for these income taxes and deferred tax assets. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to income taxes in the local country which are generally higher than U.S. tax rates, and may be subject to U.S. income taxes. Our tax provision from income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that arise during the period. Each quarter, we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual effective tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment in such period. Our estimated effective rate for the year differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to non-deductible stock-based compensation expense, state taxes, foreign income subject to different tax rates than the U.S., and the benefit of U.S. federal income tax credits. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act) was enacted into law. The new legislation contains significant tax provisions that affect us, including a one-time repatriation tax on accumulated foreign earnings, a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, which was effective January 1, 2018, and a change from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial system. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118"), the effects of the 2017 Tax Act may be adjusted within a one-year measurement period from the enactment date of the 2017 Tax Act for items that were previously reported as provisional estimates, or where a provisional estimate could not be made. The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2018, does not reflect any adjustment to the provisional estimates recorded in the year ended December 31, 2017. We will continue to assess forthcoming guidance and accounting interpretations on the effects of the 2017 Tax Act and expect to complete our analysis within the measurement period in accordance with the SEC guidance. Such analysis includes both the implications of the newly introduced provisions for Global Intangible 29 Table of Contents Low Tax Income and the detailed analysis of historical foreign earnings and potential correlative adjustments to verify the one-time transition tax does not apply. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the tax impact of timing differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using statutory tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period when the statutory rate change is enacted into law. We assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realized, and we recognize a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be recognized. This assessment requires judgment as to the likelihood and amounts of future taxable income. Sales Taxes We present our revenues net of sales tax in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data: Revenues $ 64,878 $ 53,121 Cost of revenues (1) 15,901 12,294 Gross profit 48,977 40,827 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 12,553 9,823 Sales and marketing (1) 16,233 16,014 General and administrative (1) 11,785 7,334 Total operating expenses 40,571 33,171 Income from operations 8,406 7,656 Other income (expense), net 1,245 453 Income before income taxes 9,651 8,109 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 509 (13,821 ) Net income $ 9,142 $ 21,930 (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 654 $ 501 Research and development 1,841 1,221 Sales and marketing 1,401 1,084 General and administrative 4,995 1,526 Total stock-based compensation $ 8,891 $ 4,332 31 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Revenues 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues 25 23 Gross profit 75 77 Operating expenses: Research and development 19 19 Sales and marketing 25 30 General and administrative 18 14 Total operating expenses 62 63 Income from operations 13 14 Other income (expense), net 2 1 Income before income taxes 15 15 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1 (26 ) Net income 14 % 41 % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 64,878 $ 53,121 $ 11,757 22 % Revenues increased $11.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , due to an increase in the purchase of subscriptions from existing customers and new customer subscriptions entered into after March 31, 2017. Of the total increase of $11.8 million , $6.9 million was from customers in the United States and the remaining $4.9 million was from customers in foreign countries. We expect revenue growth from existing and new customers to continue. The growth in revenues reflects the continued demand for our solutions. There was no impact to our revenues as a result of adopting Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606. See Note 4, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. 32 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues $ 15,901 $ 12,294 $ 3,607 29 % Percentage of revenues 25 % 23 % Gross profit percentage 75 % 77 % Cost of revenues increased $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to an increase in personnel expenses of $1.6 million, driven by the increase in the number of employees to support the continued growth of our business; a $0.7 million increase in depreciation expense related to additional computer hardware and software; a $0.6 million increase in amortization expense related to acquired technology resulting from our business acquisitions; increased third-party software license and maintenance expense of $0.4 million; and increased data center costs of $0.3 million as our business continues to grow. Research and Development Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 12,553 $ 9,823 $ 2,730 28 % Percentage of revenues 19 % 19 % Research and development expenses increased $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to an increase in personnel expenses of $2.1 million, driven by additional employees hired to support the growth of our business; increased related facilities costs and expenses of $0.4 million to support our research and development activities; and increased third-party software license and maintenance expense of $0.1 million as our business continues to grow. We continue to significantly invest in and expand our research and development teams to continuously improve our platform and existing solutions, as well as develop new solutions and capabilities. Sales and Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 16,233 $ 16,014 $ 219 1 % Percentage of revenues 25 % 30 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to an increase in headcount expense of $1.1 million driven by additional employees hired to support the growth of our business; increased third-party software license and maintenance expense of $0.7 million; and increased depreciation related to computer software of $0.4 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in tradeshow expenses of $1.1 million as well as a decrease of commission expense of $0.8 million resulting from the adoption of ASC 606, resulting in us capitalizing commissions on new business and upsells in the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus expensing all commissions in the three months ended March 31, 2017. 33 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 11,785 $ 7,334 $ 4,451 61 % Percentage of revenues 18 % 14 % General and administrative expenses increased $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily driven by higher stock-based compensation of $3.5 million; increased consulting and outside services fees of $0.5 million; and increased third-party software license and maintenance expense of $0.4 million to support the growth of our business. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Total other income (expense), net $ 1,245 $ 453 $ 792 175 % Percentage of revenues 2 % 1 % Total other income (expense), net increased by $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to an increase in interest income as our cash and investment balances increased year over year. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 509 $ (13,821 ) $ 14,330 (104 )% Effective Tax Rate 5.3 % (170.4 )% We recorded an income tax provision of $0.5 million and income tax benefit of $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2018 is primarily due to a reduction in the amount of excess benefits of stock-based compensation realized during the quarter, a year-over-year increase in income before taxes and non-deductible stock-based compensation as a result of changes in the tax law for executive compensation. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2018 , our principal source of liquidity was cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments of $393.9 million , including $7.8 million held outside of the United States by our foreign subsidiaries. We do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. However, if we repatriate these funds, we could be subject to foreign withholding taxes. We have experienced positive cash flows from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 . We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, and cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend 34 Table of Contents on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing, type and extent of our spending on research and development efforts, international expansion and investment in data centers. We may also seek to invest in or acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Cash Flows The following summary of cash flows for the periods indicated has been derived from our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 42,989 $ 32,425 Cash used in investing activities (38,081 ) (1,006 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,675 (8,505 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 6,583 $ 22,914 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , cash flows from operating activities of $43.0 million primarily resulted from our net income of approximately $9.1 million , as adjusted for non-cash items including stock-based compensation of $8.9 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $7.0 million ; and a decrease in our accounts receivable of $14.5 million due to the timing of customer payments. In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , cash flows from operating activities of $32.4 million primarily resulted from our net income of approximately $21.9 million, as adjusted by an increase in deferred revenues of $8.0 million attributable to our continued growth, and a decrease in our accounts receivable of $5.4 million. These working capital increases were further increased by non-cash items including excess tax benefits included in deferred tax assets of $8.4 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $4.8 million and stock-based compensation of $4.3 million . These increases were partially offset by additions to deferred income tax assets of $22.6 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , cash used in investing activities of $38.1 million was attributable to purchases of investments, net of sales and maturities of $32.1 million , and $6.0 million of cash used for capital expenditures, including computer hardware and software for our data centers to support our growth and development, and to purchase physical scanner appliances and computer hardware provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions. In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , cash used in investing activities of $1.0 million was attributable to $4.5 million of cash used for capital expenditures, including computer hardware and software for our data centers to support our growth and development. This increase was partially offset by sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases of $3.5 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , cash provided by financing activities of $1.7 million was attributable to $7.9 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, offset by employee payroll taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards of $4.0 million , share repurchases of $1.5 million and principal payments under capital lease obligations of $0.7 million . In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , cash used in financing activities of $8.5 million was attributable to payments for taxes related to employee net share settlement of equity awards of $14.1 million, offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $5.6 million. 35 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our outstanding leases for office space, third-party data centers, office equipment and capital leases. The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations, including future interest payments, at March 31, 2018 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2018 (remaining nine months) 2019-2020 2021-2022 2023 and thereafter (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 48,907 $ 6,912 $ 11,193 $ 8,802 $ 22,000 Capital lease obligations 2,894 940 1,900 54 Total $ 51,801 $ 7,852 $ 13,093 $ 8,856 $ 22,000 On October 14, 2016, we entered into a lease agreement (included in the table above) for our new headquarters office facility. The lease payments commenced on May 1, 2018 and the lease has a ten-year term through April 2028. The total commitment of $38.6 million is payable monthly with escalating rental payments throughout the lease term. In connection with this lease, we have provided the landlord with a $1.2 million standby letter of credit to secure our obligations through the end of the lease term, which was classified as restricted cash in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Operating lease obligations represent our obligations to make payments under the lease agreements for our facilities, data centers, and office equipment leases. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we made regular payments on our operating lease obligations of $1.0 million . Capital lease obligations represent financing on data center storage equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we made regular principal payments on our capital lease obligations of $0.7 million . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have, nor do we currently have, any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 36 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 , filed with the SEC on February 23, 2018, the accounting policies related to revenue recognition, income taxes and stock-based compensation involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. A critical accounting policy is one that is material to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and requires us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments for uncertain matters that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Except for the changes below, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 , filed with the SEC on February 23, 2018. We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers with a date of initial application of January 1, 2018. We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method and recognized the cumulative effect as an adjustment to the opening balance of equity at January 1, 2018. Therefore, the comparative information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported under ASC 605. The significant impact of adopting ASC 606 was related to the deferral of sales commission costs for new business and when customers increase their renewal orders (upsells). We previously expensed sales commission as incurred. Under ASC 606, sales commissions cost related to new business and upsells are recorded as an asset. We expense the commission cost as a selling expense on a straight-line basis over a period of five years. Five years represents the estimated life of the customer relationship taking into account factors such as peer estimates of technology lives and customer lives as well as our own historical data. Applying the practical expedient in ASC 340-40-25-4, we expense commissions related to contract renewals with a renewal contract term of one year or less. The current and noncurrent portions of deferred commissions are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets, and other noncurrent assets, respectively, in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 37 Table of Contents