ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the year ended September 26, 2010 contained in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Overview Recent Developments Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $3.9 billion, with net income of $999 million, which were impacted by the following key items: We shipped approximately 118 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless devices, an increase of 27% compared to approximately 93 million MSM integrated circuits in the year ago quarter. (1) Total reported device sales were approximately $40.0 billion, an increase of approximately 44% compared to approximately $27.7 billion in the year ago quarter. (2) We resolved two licensee disputes, and as a result, recorded revenues of $401 million related to prior quarters. We are executing on a restructuring plan under which the FLO TV business and network were shut down, and we are no longer pursuing our MediaFLO Technologies business. We recorded restructuring and restructuring-related charges of $312 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Firethorn division in the QWI segment introduced a new product application trademarked as SWAGG. The initial consumer adoption of SWAGG has fallen significantly short of our expectation, and as a result, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we recorded impairment charges of $120 million, including $114 million in goodwill impairment. Against this backdrop, the following recent developments occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 with respect to key elements of our business or our industry: Worldwide wireless subscriptions grew by approximately 3% to reach approximately 5.6 billion. (3) Worldwide 3G subscriptions (all CDMA-based) grew to approximately 1.3 billion, approximately 24% of total wireless subscriptions, including approximately 524 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO subscriptions and approximately 783 million WCDMA/HSPA/TD-SCDMA subscriptions. (3) In the handset market, CDMA-based unit shipments grew an estimated 38% over the prior year quarter, compared to an estimated increase of 16% across all wireless technologies. (4) (1) During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, some customers built devices that incorporated two MSMs. In such cases, which represent less than 1% of our gross volume, we count only one MSM in reporting the MSM shipments. (2) Total reported device sales is the sum of all reported sales in U.S. dollars (as reported to us by our licensees) of all licensed CDMA-based subscriber devices (including handsets, modules, modem cards and other subscriber devices) by our licensees during a particular period. Not all licensees report sales the same way (e.g., some licensees report sales net of permitted deductions, such as transportation, insurance and packing costs, while other licensees report sales and then identify the amount of permitted deductions in their reports), and the way in which licensees report such information may change from time to time. (3) According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of April 18, 2011, for the quarter ending March 31, 2011. Wireless Intelligence estimates for CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO subscribers do not include Wireless Local Loop. (4) Based on current reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm, in their February 2011 Global Handset Market Share Update. Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, license fees and royalties for use of our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services and software hosting services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. 22 We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless & Internet, or QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA- and OFDMA-based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers, data cards and infrastructure equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless devices include the Mobile Station Modem (MSM), Mobile Data Modem (MDM), Qualcomm Single Chip (QSC), Qualcomm Snapdragon (QSD), Radio Frequency (RF), Power Management (PM) and Bluetooth devices. The baseband integrated circuits (MSM, MDM, QSC and QSD) for wireless devices and system software perform voice and data communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, and our RF, PM and Bluetooth devices perform radio conversion between radio frequency and baseband signals, power management and peripheral connectivity. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits and system software perform the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the wireless operators base station equipment. QCT revenues comprised 51% and 58% of total consolidated revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010 , respectively, and 56% and 59% of total consolidated revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 and 2010 , respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the assembly and final test manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing business model, we purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services. We refer to this two-stage manufacturing business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensees) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 45% and 37% of total consolidated revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010 , respectively, and 39% and 35% of total consolidated revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The vast majority of such revenues were generated through our licensees sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and WCDMA subscriber equipment products. QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS), Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV) and Firethorn, generates revenues primarily through mobile information products and services and software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QES sells equipment, software and services used by transportation and other companies to connect wirelessly with their assets and workforce. Through March 2011, QES has shipped approximately 1,466,000 terrestrial-based and satellite-based mobile information units. QIS provides content enablement services for the wireless industry, including Brew, the Plaza suite and other services. QIS also provides QChat push-to-talk, QPoint and other products for wireless network operators. QGOV provides development, hardware and analytical expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government agencies. Firethorn builds and manages software applications that enable mobile commerce services. QWI revenues comprised 4% and 6% of total consolidated revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010 , and 5% and 6% of total consolidated revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 and 2010 , respectively. QSI consists of the Companys strategic investment activities, including FLO TV Incorporated (FLO TV), our wholly-owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI makes strategic investments that we believe will open new markets for CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies, support the design and introduction of new CDMA and OFDMA products and services for wireless voice and internet data communications or possess unique capabilities or technology. Many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies and in wireless spectrum, such as the BWA spectrum won in the auction in India. On December 20, 2010, we announced that we have agreed to sell substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. The agreement follows our previously announced plan to restructure and evaluate strategic 23 options related to our FLO TV business and network. Under the restructuring plan, we shut down the FLO TV business and network in March 2011. Nonreportable segments include: the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies division, which continues to develop an interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology based on micro-electro-mechanical-system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics; and other product initiatives. The MediaFLO Technologies business is no longer being pursued. Restructuring and Restructuring-Related Activities We are executing on a restructuring plan under which the FLO TV business and network were shut down on March 27, 2011, and we are no longer pursuing our MediaFLO Technologies business. Restructuring activities were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2012 as we continue to negotiate the exit of certain contracts and remove certain of our equipment from the network sites. The 700 MHz spectrum that we agreed to sell was classified as held for sale at March 27, 2011. Although we will attempt to sell certain of the other FLO TV assets, these other assets were classified as held for use at March 27, 2011 because the held for sale criteria, under applicable accounting rules, were not met, and as a result, the FLO TV business was not considered a discontinued operation at March 27, 2011. We estimate that we will incur restructuring and restructuring-related charges associated with this plan of up to $65 million, which are primarily related to lease exit and other costs. Restructuring charges consist of lease exit costs, other contract termination costs and certain severance costs. Restructuring-related charges include all other charges associated with the execution of this plan and are expected to primarily consist of asset impairments and accelerated depreciation. The restructuring charges are recorded in the QSI segment, and the restructuring-related charges are recorded primarily in the QSI segment. We may also realize certain gains, primarily due to the potential release of liabilities associated with ongoing efforts to exit certain contracts, the amount of which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Future cash expenditures associated with this plan are expected to be in the range of $125 million to $175 million. The Company recorded restructuring and restructuring-related costs as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 27, 2011 Asset Impairment and Accelerated Depreciation Contract Termination Other Total Restructuring charges Cost of equipment and services revenues $ $ 8 $ (2 ) $ 6 Selling, general and administrative 38 2 40 46 46 Restructuring-related charges Cost of equipment and services revenues 254 254 Selling, general and administrative 7 5 12 261 5 266 $ 261 $ 46 $ 5 $ 312 24 Six Months Ended March 27, 2011 Asset Impairment and Accelerated Depreciation Contract Termination Other Total Restructuring charges Revenues $ $ 2 $ $ 2 Cost of equipment and services revenues 9 8 17 Research and development 2 2 Selling, general and administrative 38 4 42 51 12 63 Restructuring-related charges Cost of equipment and services revenues 287 287 Research and development 6 6 Selling, general and administrative 12 13 25 305 13 318 $ 305 $ 51 $ 25 $ 381 Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks enables increased voice capacity and higher data rates than prior generation networks, thereby supporting more minutes of use and a wide range of mobile broadband data applications for handsets, 3G connected computing devices and other consumer electronics. Many wireless operators are also planning to complement their existing 3G networks by deploying OFDMA-based technology, often called 4G, in new spectrum to gain additional capacity for data services, such as in the recent launch of a LTE network by Verizon Wireless in the United States. As a result, we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for 3G and 3G/4G multimode products and services around the world. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business: The worldwide transition to 3G CDMA-based networks is expected to continue, including the further expansion of 3G in China and India. We expect consumer demand for advanced 3G-based and 3G/4G multimode devices, including smartphones, data-centric devices and new device categories, such as tablets and eBook readers, to continue at a strong pace. We also expect growth in lower-end 3G devices as 3G expands in emerging regions. We still face significant competition in lower-end devices from GSM-based products, particularly in emerging regions. We expect that CDMA-based device prices will continue to vary broadly due to the increased penetration of smartphones and the popularity of smartphone applications combined with active competition throughout the world at all price tiers. This, along with varying rates of economic growth by region and stronger than average growth in emerging regions, is expected to continue to impact the average and range of selling prices of CDMA-based devices. We continue to invest significant resources toward the development of technology to increase the data rates available with 3G and 4G networks, wireless baseband chips, converged computing/communication chips, multimedia products, software and services for the wireless industry. We continue to invest in the evolution of CDMA and a broad range of other technologies, such as LTE, our IMOD display technology and our Snapdragon platform, as part of our vision to enable a wide range of products and technologies. We are executing on a restructuring plan under which we shut down the FLO TV business and network, and we are no longer pursuing our MediaFLO Technologies business. We estimate that we will incur future restructuring and restructuring-related charges associated with this plan of up to $65 million, and that future cash expenditures associated with this plan will be in the range of $125 million to $175 million. We may also realize certain gains, primarily due to the potential release of liabilities associated with ongoing efforts to exit certain contracts, the amount of which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Restructuring activities were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2012. We have agreed to sell substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. If the closing conditions are met, we expect to recognize a gain of $1.2 billion. 25 Based on our most recent review of our extended supply chain, we do not foresee any significant impact in our ability to supply product to our customers as a result of the recent events in Japan. In addition, based on preliminary indications, we do not foresee any significant impact on the demand profile for wireless devices in that region. We will continue to monitor the situation and its impact on our business as the situation in Japan develops. On January 5, 2011, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Atheros Communications, Inc. for $45 per share in cash, which represented an enterprise value of approximately $3.1 billion on that date. The transaction has received approval by Atheros stockholders and certain foreign regulators, and the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended, has expired. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt of an additional foreign regulatory approval, and is expected to close in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. In addition to the foregoing business and market-based matters, we continue to devote resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless market. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost-effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report. Second Quarter of Fiscal 2011 Compared to Second Quarter of Fiscal 2010 Revenues. Total revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $3.88 billion, compared to $2.66 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . Revenues from sales of equipment and services for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $2.04 billion, compared to $1.60 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . The increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $431 million increase in QCT equipment and services revenues. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $1.83 billion, compared to $1.07 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . The increase in revenues from licensing and royalty fees was primarily due to a $772 million increase in QTL revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 was $1.36 billion, compared to $809 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . Cost of equipment and services revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included $304 million related to our FLO TV subsidiary, an increase of $249 million as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as a result of our shut down of the FLO TV business and network. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues for our other businesses was 52% for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 , compared to 47% for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . This decrease in margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to a decrease in QCT gross margin percentage. Cost of equipment and services in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included $17 million in share-based compensation, compared to $10 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. Research and Development Expenses. For the second quarter of fiscal 2011 , research and development expenses were $740 million or 19% of revenues, compared to $648 million or 24% of revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $76 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. This increase was partially offset by a $21 million decrease in costs related to our FLO TV subsidiary. The percentage decrease was primarily attributable to the 46% increase in revenues, largely related to our QTL licensing and royalty revenues, relative to the 14% increase in costs. Research and development expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included share-based compensation of $98 million, compared to $75 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For the second quarter of fiscal 2011 , selling, general and administrative expenses were $585 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $430 million or 16% of revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $53 million increase in charitable donations, primarily resulting from the establishment of the Qualcomm Charitable Foundation in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, a $36 million increase in employee-related expenses and a $14 million increase in professional fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included share-based compensation of $87 million, compared to $69 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 . 26 Goodwill Impairment. Operating expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included a $114 million goodwill impairment charge related to our Firethorn division due to the initial consumer adoption of a new product application falling significantly short of expectations. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $185 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to $189 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The net decrease was comprised as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 27, 2011 March 28, 2010 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 122 $ 129 $ (7 ) QSI 4 4 Interest expense (34 ) (7 ) (27 ) Net realized gains on investments 102 80 22 Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (4 ) (15 ) 11 QSI (1 ) (1 ) Gains on derivative instruments 3 (3 ) Equity in losses of investees (4 ) (4 ) $ 185 $ 189 $ (4 ) The increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to the loans related to the BWA spectrum won in the India auction in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $263 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to $191 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 was 21%, compared to 20% for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. First Six Months of Fiscal 2011 Compared to First Six Months of Fiscal 2010 Revenues. Total revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $7.22 billion, compared to $5.33 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $4.26 billion, compared to $3.26 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. The increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $944 million increase in QCT equipment and services revenues. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $2.97 billion, compared to $2.08 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. The increase in revenues from licensing and royalty fees was primarily due to a $912 million increase in QTL revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 was $2.49 billion, compared to $1.62 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. Cost of equipment and services revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 included $391 million related to our FLO TV subsidiary, an increase of $289 million as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2010 as a result of our shut down of the FLO TV business and network. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues for our other businesses was 49% for the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to 47% for the first six months of fiscal 2010. This decrease in margin percentage in the first six months of fiscal 2011 compared to the first six months of fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to a decrease in QCT gross margin percentage. Cost of equipment and services revenues in the first six months of fiscal 2011 included $30 million in share-based compensation, compared to $21 million in the first six months of fiscal 2010. Research and Development Expenses. For the first six months of fiscal 2011, research and development expenses were $1.41 billion or 20% of revenues, compared to $1.24 billion or 23% of revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2010. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $132 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and 27 technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. This increase was partially offset by a $20 million decrease in costs related to our FLO TV subsidiary. The percentage decrease was primarily attributable to the 35% increase in revenues relative to the 13% increase in costs. Research and development expenses in the first six months of fiscal 2011 included share-based compensation of $184 million, compared to $147 million in the first six months of fiscal 2010. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For the first six months of fiscal 2011, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.02 billion or 14% of revenues, compared to $810 million or 15% of revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2010. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $72 million increase in employee-related expenses, a $54 million increase in charitable contributions, primarily resulting from the establishment of the Qualcomm Charitable Foundation in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, and a $48 million increase in patent-related costs and other professional fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses in the first six months of fiscal 2011 included share-based compensation of $159 million, compared to $137 million in the first six months of fiscal 2010. Goodwill Impairment. Operating expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2011 included a $114 million goodwill impairment charge related to our Firethorn division due to the operating performance of a new product application falling significantly short of expectations. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $404 million for the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to $361 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. The net increase was comprised as follows (in millions): Six Months Ended March 27, 2011 March 28, 2010 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 251 $ 274 $ (23 ) QSI 5 5 Interest expense (62 ) (16 ) (46 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 230 171 59 QSI 1 11 (10 ) Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (11 ) (66 ) 55 QSI (5 ) (7 ) 2 Losses on derivative instruments (1 ) 1 Equity in losses of investees (5 ) (5 ) $ 404 $ 361 $ 43 During the first six months of fiscal 2011, we recorded lower impairment losses and higher net realized gains on marketable securities as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2010 due to improvements in financial market conditions. The increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to the loans related to the BWA spectrum won in the India auction in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $422 million for the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to $401 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2011 was 16%, compared to 20% for the first six months of fiscal 2010. During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the United States government extended the federal research and development tax credit to include qualified research expenditures paid or incurred after December 31, 2009 and before January 1, 2012. We recorded a tax benefit of $32 million related to fiscal 2010 in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 from the retroactive extension of this credit. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 included tax expense of approximately $137 million that arose because certain deferred revenue was taxable in fiscal 2010, but the resulting deferred tax asset will reverse in future years when the Company's state tax rate will be lower as a result of California tax legislation enacted in 2009. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2011 of 16% was lower than the expected annual effective rate of 17% primarily as a result of the benefit associated with the retroactive extension of the tax credit in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 of 17% is less than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 21% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate and benefits of 28 approximately 2% related to the research and development tax credit, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 5%. The prior fiscal year rate was lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, partially offset by state taxes and tax expense related to the valuation of deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law. Our Segment Results for the Second Quarter of Fiscal 2011 Compared to the Second Quarter of Fiscal 2010 The following should be read in conjunction with the second quarter financial results of fiscal 2011 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 - Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $1.96 billion, compared to $1.54 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $1.91 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to $1.47 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $380 million increase related to higher unit shipments and a $59 million increase related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such products. Approximately 118 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to approximately 93 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. (1) QCT earnings before taxes for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $417 million, compared to $344 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. QCT operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 21% in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to 22% in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase in QCT earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in QCT revenues, partially offset by a $60 million increase in research and development expenses and a $33 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin percentage, partially offset by a higher increase in QCT revenues relative to the increases in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. QCT gross margin percentage decreased as a result of the net effects of lower average selling prices, higher product support costs and a decrease in average unit costs. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $1.75 billion, compared to $974 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we entered into agreements with two licensees to settle ongoing disputes, including the arbitration proceeding with Panasonic. As a result, QTL revenues during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included $401 million in revenues related to prior quarters. The remaining $371 million increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA-based devices by licensees and higher average royalties per unit of CDMA-based devices as well as current period revenues from the two licensees following the settlement of the two disputes. QTL earnings before taxes for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $1.57 billion, compared to $821 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. QTL operating margin percentage was 90% in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to 84% in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The increases in QTL earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were primarily attributable to the increase in QTL revenues. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $157 million, compared to $152 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. QWI loss before taxes for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 was $135 million, compared to $1 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. QWI operating margin percentage was negative in the second quarter of both fiscal 2011 and 2010, principally due to the operating losses of our Firethorn division. The increase in QWI loss before taxes was primarily attributable to $120 million in impairment charges related to certain assets of our Firethorn division, including $114 million in goodwill impairment. QSI Segment. QSI revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 were $5 million, compared to $2 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. QSI loss before taxes for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 was $404 million, compared to $136 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. QSI loss before taxes increased by $268 million primarily due to a $233 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiarys loss before taxes and a $27 million increase in interest expense attributable to the loans related to the BWA spectrum won in the India auction in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. We are executing on a restructuring plan under which we shut down the FLO TV business and network in March 2011. QSI loss before taxes for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included $310 million related to this plan. In addition to our ongoing operating costs, we expect to incur future restructuring and restructuring-related charges associated with this plan of up to $65 million, which are primarily related to lease exit and other costs. Restructuring activities were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2012. 29 Our Segment Results for the First Six Months of Fiscal 2011 Compared to the First Six Months of Fiscal 2010 The following should be read in conjunction with the first six months financial results of fiscal 2011 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 - Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $4.08 billion, compared to $3.14 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $3.97 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to $3.03 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from an $839 million increase related to higher unit shipments and a $118 million increase related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such products. Approximately 236 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to approximately 185 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. QCT earnings before taxes for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $1.06 billion, compared to $769 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. QCT operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 26% in the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to 25% in the first six months of fiscal 2010. The increases in QCT earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were primarily attributable to a higher increase in QCT revenues relative to the increases in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin percentage. QCT gross margin percentage decreased as a result of the net effects of lower average selling prices, higher product support costs and a decrease in average unit costs. (1) QCT inventories increased by 14% to $549 million in the first six months of fiscal 2011 from $481 million at September 26, 2010 primarily due to an increase in finished goods on hand related to the timing of inventory builds and changes in product mix. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $2.80 billion, compared to $1.89 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we entered into agreements with two licensees to settle ongoing disputes, including the arbitration proceeding with Panasonic and recorded $401 million in revenues related to prior quarters. The remaining $511 million increase in revenues during the first six months of fiscal 2011 was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA-based devices by licensees and higher average royalties per unit of CDMA-based devices, partially offset by the effect of $71 million that was included in QTL revenues in the first six months of fiscal 2010 but was attributable to fiscal 2009. The $71 million had not been previously recognized in fiscal 2009 due to discussions regarding a license agreement that was signed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. QTL earnings before taxes for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $2.47 billion, compared to $1.59 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. QTL operating margin percentage was 88% in the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to 84% in the first six months of fiscal 2010. The increases in QTL earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were primarily attributable to the increase in QTL revenues. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $329 million, compared to $294 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. Revenues increased primarily due to a $30 million increase in QES equipment and services revenues resulting primarily from higher unit shipments of our asset-tracking products. QWI loss before taxes for the first six months of fiscal 2011 was $135 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $8 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. QWI operating margin percentage was negative in the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to 1% in the first six months of fiscal 2010. The decreases in QWI earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were primarily attributable to $120 million in impairment charges related to certain assets of our Firethorn division, including $114 million in goodwill impairment, and a $16 million decrease in QIS operating income. QSI Segment . QSI revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $5 million, compared to $4 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. QSI loss before taxes for the first six months of fiscal 2011 was $563 million, compared to $243 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010. QSI loss before taxes increased by $320 million primarily due to a $268 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiarys loss before taxes and a $46 million increase in interest expense attributable to the loans related to the BWA spectrum won in the India auction in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. We are executing on a restructuring plan under which we shut down the FLO TV business and network in March 2011. QSI loss before taxes for the six months of fiscal 2011 included $374 million related to this plan. In addition to our ongoing operating costs, we expect to incur future restructuring and restructuring-related charges associated with this plan of up to $65 million, which are primarily related to lease exit and other costs. Restructuring activities were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2012. 30 (1) During the first six months of fiscal 2011, some customers built devices that incorporated two MSMs. In such cases, which represent less than 1% of our gross volume, we count only one MSM in reporting the MSM shipments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $22.1 billion at March 27, 2011 , an increase of $3.7 billion from September 27, 2010. This increase included $2.0 billion of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our equity compensation plans. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 27, 2011 consisted of $8.1 billion held domestically and $14.0 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. Due to tax and accounting considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and investments held domestically. Total cash provided by operating activities decreased to $1.8 billion during the first six months of fiscal 2011 , compared to $2.0 billion during the first six months of fiscal 2010 . The decrease was primarily due to the payment of $1.5 billion to the United States tax authorities in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 , offset by an increase in net income for the first six months of fiscal 2011, compared to the first six months of 2010. At March 27, 2011 , approximately $1.7 billion remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. While we did not repurchase any of our common stock during the first six months of fiscal 2011 , we continue to evaluate repurchases under this program subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that such repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders. We announced cash dividends totaling $316 million, or $0.19 per share, during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 , which were paid on March 25, 2011. On March 8, 2011, we announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend per share of common stock from $0.19 to $0.215, which is effective for quarterly dividends payable after March 25, 2011. On April 7, 2011 , we announced a cash dividend per share of $0.215 per share on our common stock, payable on June 24, 2011 to stockholders of record as of May 27, 2011 . We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Accounts receivable increased 9% during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 . Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 17 days at March 27, 2011 compared to 18 days at December 26, 2010 . The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the effects of increased revenues and the timing of shipments and customer payments for receivables related to integrated circuits. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and our expected cash flow generated from operations will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans. Our research and development expenditures were $1.4 billion in the first six months of fiscal 2011 and $2.5 billion in fiscal 2010 , and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for the wireless industry. Capital expenditures were $181 million in the first six months of fiscal 2011 and $426 million in fiscal 2010 . We anticipate that capital expenditures will be higher in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 , excluding the fiscal 2010 $1.1 billion advance payment on the BWA spectrum in India, primarily due to estimated capital expenditures of $400 million in fiscal 2011 related to the construction of a new manufacturing facility in Taiwan for our QMT division. The estimated cost for the initial phase of the facility is $975 million and is expected to be operational in fiscal 2012. The revised estimate for fiscal 2011 reflects a minor postponement in the expected completion of the manufacturing facility due in part to equipment sourcing delays precipitated by the earthquake in Japan. Future capital expenditures may also be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted. Our purchase obligations for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 , some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $1.2 billion at March 27, 2011 . We anticipate incurring future cash expenditures associated with the FLO TV restructuring plan in the range of $125 million to $175 million, primarily related to lease exit and other costs. Restructuring activities were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2012. We expect the majority of the cash payments associated with this restructuring plan to be made by the end of fiscal 2012. Cash used for strategic investments and acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $89 million in the first six months of fiscal 2011 and $94 million in fiscal 2010 . On January 5, 2011, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Atheros Communications, Inc. for $45 per share in cash. We expect to 31 use approximately $3.1 billion in existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to effect this transaction, net of the cash equivalents and marketable securities expected to be acquired from Atheros upon the close of the transaction. We continue to assess the potential for future cash expenditures for income taxes resulting from the acquisition of Atheros and any subsequent restructuring of legal entities. We expect the transaction to close in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. We expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions to open new markets for our technology, expand our technology, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new business opportunities. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the $1.1 billion short-term loan related to the BWA spectrum purchase in India was refinanced with new loan agreements that bear interest at an annual rate based on the highest base rate among the bank lenders, which is reset quarterly, plus 0.25% with interest payments due monthly. The new loans are due and payable in full in December 2012. However, each lender has the right to demand prepayment of its portion of the outstanding loans on December 15, 2011 subject to sufficient prior written notice. As a result, the loans are classified as a component of current liabilities. Pursuant to the Settlement and Patent License and Non-Assert Agreement with Broadcom, we are obligated to pay a remaining $389 million ratably through April 2013, including imputed interest, of which $86 million is payable in the remainder of fiscal 2011. Contractual Obligations/Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated balance sheet at March 27, 2011 includes an aggregate of $1.1 billion in loans that are payable in full in Indian rupees in December 2012. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in S-K 303(a)(4)(ii). Additional information regarding our financial commitments at March 27, 2011 is provided in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6 Income Taxes, Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies and Note 12 Acquisition. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Quarterly Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2010 , including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Businesses Our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of our CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies and upgrades of 3G and 3G/4G multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies. We develop, patent and commercialize CDMA- and OFDMA-based technologies. Our revenues are dependent upon the commercial deployment of our technologies and upgrades of 3G and 3G/4G multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies. Our business may be harmed, and our investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return if: wireless operators delay 3G and/or 3G/4G multimode deployments, expansions or upgrades; LTE, an OFDMA-based wireless standard, is not widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; or wireless operators deploy other technologies. Our business is dependent on our ability to increase our market share and to continue to drive the adoption of our products and services into 3G, 3G/4G multimode and 4G wireless device markets. We are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. Our licensees and CDMA- or OFDMA-based wireless operators may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or other factors. If commercial deployment of our technologies and upgrades to 3G, 3G/4G multimode or 4G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies do not continue or are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer. 32 Our revenues can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of CDMA- and/or OFDMA-based technologies or by the need to extend certain existing license agreements to cover additional later patents. Although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to GSM, GPRS, EDGE, OFDM, OFDMA and/or Multiple Input, Multiple Output (MIMO) technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our CDMA portfolio licensing program. Many wireless operators are investigating or have selected LTE (or to a lesser extent WiMax) as next-generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands as complementary to their existing CDMA-based networks. Although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the LTE and WiMax industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to 11 companies to make and sell products implementing those standards but not implementing 3G standards, we might not achieve the same royalty revenues on such LTE or WiMax products as on CDMA-based or multimode CDMA/OFDMA-based products. The licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. As a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. In order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We might not be able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications may impact our revenues. Global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and our customers products, which may negatively affect our revenues. Despite the improvements in market conditions, a future decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high customer concentrations, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless industry, such as wireless operators. Other unexpected negative events may have adverse effects on the economy, on demand for wireless device products or on wireless device inventories at equipment manufacturers and wireless operators. In addition, our direct and indirect customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to cancellation or delay of orders for our products. Our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees, declining average selling prices for our licensees products and our products and/or new specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. New technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. Our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated or the timing of their deployment, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations. Competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors that include, among others: evolving industry standards, evolving methods of transmission for wireless voice and data communications; value-added features that drive replacement rates and selling prices; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: continue to keep pace with technological developments; drive adoption of our integrated circuit products across a broad spectrum of wireless devices sold by our customers and licensees; develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely basis; effectively develop and commercialize turnkey, integrated product offerings that incorporate our integrated circuits, software, user interface and applications; become a preferred partner for operating system platforms, such as Android and Windows Mobile; focus our service businesses on key platforms that create standalone value or contribute to the success of our other businesses; and succeed in significant foreign markets, such as China, India and Europe. 33 Companies that promote non-CDMA technologies (e.g., GSM, WiMax) and companies that design CDMA-based integrated circuits are generally competitors or potential competitors. Examples (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include Broadcom, Freescale, Fujitsu, Icera, Intel, Marvell Technology, Mediatek, nVidia, Renesas Electronics, ST-Ericsson (a joint venture between Ericsson Mobile Platforms and ST-NXP Wireless), Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. Many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; government support of other technologies; and more extensive relationships with indigenous distribution and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies in developing territories (e.g., China). In addition to the foregoing, we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including chipsets and associated software, that will incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which may offer accessibility to a portion of a products source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. Developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. Competition may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. Reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. We anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. If revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease, our operating results could be negatively affected. Our QCT segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers. The loss of any one of our QCT segments significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the deferral or cancellation and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected levels of operating results. Accordingly, unless and until our QCT segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will largely depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. Although we have more than 195 licensees, our QTL segment derives a significant portion of royalty revenues from a limited number of licensees. Our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. We have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by foreign governments, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) or other industry groups that harm our business. A small number of companies, in the past, have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. These strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion and patent and license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, (iv) collective action, including working with carriers, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations, and (v) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holders ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. Some companies have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by SDOs and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. They have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. A number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain standards development organizations concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to abide by these policies. There is a risk that relevant courts or governmental agencies will interpret those policies in a manner adverse to our interests. If such proposals and strategies continue and are successful in the 34 future, our business model would be harmed, either by artificially limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the SDOs or such other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. As well, the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. We assume that such challenges regardless of their merits will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights or could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United States, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of spectrum licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. We may have difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including: challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); and challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our wireless chipset products. A substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. We may need to litigate in the United States or elsewhere in the world to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property or that patents on which we rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. These claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. We may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products were found to infringe on another companys intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. In any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries and customers could also become the targets of litigation. We are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. Reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. We expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the U.S. International Trade Commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. We may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from a royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers devices using our chipsets) and the imposition of royalty payments that might make purchases of our chipsets less economical for our customers. A negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn 35 could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. A number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various CDMA standards, GSM standards and OFDMA standards or implementations of OFDM and OFDMA systems. If we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more of such other patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our CDMA, GSM, OFDMA or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees products and our profitability. Other companies or entities also have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. Such adverse decisions could negatively impact our revenues. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. Our earnings and stock price are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include, among others: announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling price of our licensees products and our products; unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert managements attention and resources. Any prolonged financial or economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. Financial market volatility has impacted, and could continue to impact, the value and performance of our marketable securities. Net investment income could vary depending on the gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, impairment charges related to marketable securities and other investments, changes in interest rates and changes in fair values of derivative instruments. Our cash equivalent and marketable securities investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. These factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. If our earnings fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. We depend upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to manufacture and test component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. If these third-party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing and test capacity in their facilities to produce products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or a loss of, any of these third 36 parties, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in our product supply source, an inability of our suppliers to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. The loss of a significant supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. In the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in possible loss of customers. While our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. Our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. QCT Segment. Although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that has been accepted by our supplier. To the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture or test our products. Accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. We have experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers, which resulted in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will not experience these or other supply constraints in the future, which could result in our failure to meet customer demand. In addition, the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could impact our ability to meet customer demand, revenues and cost expectations. The timing of acceptance of the smaller technology designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs. QMT Division. Our QMT division needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with component supply partners to support the manufacture of interferometric modulator (IMOD) displays and/or modules in commercial volumes. All of our current relationships have been for the development and limited production of certain IMOD display panels and/or modules. Some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the component supply partners entering into material supply relationships with us. Our suppliers may also be our competitors, putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. One or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture CDMA-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. In this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. In addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. We cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the U.S. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. Our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including China, India, Japan, South Korea, North America, South America and Europe. Consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% in the first six months of fiscal 2011 and in the last three fiscal years. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies that could negatively affect our operating results. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following, among others: Our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold into foreign markets may become less price-competitive as a result of adverse currency fluctuations; Certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. Weakening of currency values versus the U.S. dollar in selected regions could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows; We may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; Our loans payable are denominated in Indian rupees. If the U.S. dollar weakens, additional cash will be required to 37 settle this obligation and the related interest; and Currency exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the U.S. dollar value of our marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies. We may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. From time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We acquire businesses and other assets, including spectrum licenses and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies. Many of our strategic investments are in early-stage companies to support our business, including the global adoption of CDMA- or OFDMA-based technologies and related services. Most of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. Our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. Our share of any losses will adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. Achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: retaining key employees; maintaining important relationships of Qualcomm and the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. We cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisitions. We may not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. Defects or errors in our products and services or in the products of our customers could harm our business. If we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. Our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. For example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. The design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to yields and reliability. Because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have an adverse impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. Defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability, and that of our customers and licensees, to ship products on a timely basis, customer or licensee demand for our products or the commitment of financial and/or engineering resources that could reduce operating margins and affect future product release schedules. Additionally, a defect or failure, including those related to security vulnerabilities, in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could lead to liability claims, harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3G and 3G/4G multimode wireless markets. Manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entail the risk of product liability. The use of wireless devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. We continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard the software from this threat. However, this issue carries the risk of general product liability claims along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. In addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers or us, could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. Our Firethorn business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its operating results may not meet our expectations. While we continue to believe that our Firethorn division's mCommerce products will offer competing advantages to consumers and merchants, there can be no assurance that our mCommerce efforts will be successful. If our Firethorn business does not succeed, our investment in its technology may not provide us an adequate return, and our business could be harmed. Consumer acceptance of our Firethorn service offerings will continue to be affected by competition, technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality and reliability of our services platforms. After $120 million in 38 impairment charges recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, our Firethorn business had $65 million in assets (including $40 million in goodwill) at March 27, 2011 . If we do not expect to achieve adequate market penetration with our mobile commerce products, our remaining assets may become impaired, which could negatively affect our operating results. Our QMT divisions business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its operating results may not meet our expectations. While we continue to believe our QMT divisions IMOD displays will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, there can be no assurance that our IMOD product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that other technologies will not continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our IMOD displays. Sales of flat panel displays are currently dominated, and we believe will likely continue to be dominated for some time, by displays based on liquid crystal display (LCD) technology. Numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, LCDs. Additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (OLED), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. In each case, advances in LCD or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our IMOD technology. These advances in competing technologies might cause device manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us or to not renew planned or existing relationships with us. Our QMT division had $437 million in assets (including $130 million in goodwill) at March 27, 2011 . If we do not expect to achieve adequate market penetration with our IMOD display technology, our assets may become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. In such case, our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. In addition, tax rules may change that may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. No provision has been made for United States federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the United States international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. If wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. Interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. Any legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the United States as well as foreign countries. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or security breaches. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a Disaster Recovery Plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts and telecommunication failures, among other factors. As has been widely reported, attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. The theft or publication of our confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations, or in our vendors, customers or licensees operations, could result in a material disruption to our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of their confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems, and we may incur additional costs to remedy any damages caused by disruptions or security breaches. From time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. To the extent such systems fail or are not 39 properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to government regulation pertaining to environmental and safety laws, to our industry, products and services, to corporate governance and public disclosure and to health care. National, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. These laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products. It may also be difficult to comply with laws and regulations in a timely manner, and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. There is also the potential for higher costs driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. As part of the development and commercialization of our IMOD display technology, we are operating both a development and a production fabrication facility. The development and commercialization of IMOD display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving restricted materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development and production activities. Our products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various regulations, including FCC regulations in the United States and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. The adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in the regulation of our activities, or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including, among other factors, changes in laws, policies, practices or enforcement affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, spectrum license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of wireless device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection, loans and employment. We hold licenses to use spectrum in the United States and the United Kingdom, and we expect that licenses to use the BWA spectrum won in the auction in India will be assigned to us in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. All of these licenses are subject to a variety of ongoing regulatory proceedings in these respective countries. Additionally, certain of our licenses in the United States are subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met at various dates beginning in June 2013. On December 20, 2010, we announced that we have agreed to sell substantially all of our licenses in the United States, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by the FCC and clearance from the U.S. Department of Justice. If we do not receive approval to sell these licenses pursuant to this agreement, there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain a comparable price from another party or that we would be able to meet the applicable build-out requirements for those licenses. The BWA spectrum licenses will be subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met within five years of the effective date of the license. If we do not meet these requirements, the relevant government authorities could impose a fine or could rescind the license in the area(s) in which the build-out requirements are not met. Changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the countries in which we hold licenses could have a material adverse risk on our business and the value of our assets. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and health care may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure and complying with laws and regulations. Evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies, procedures, and/or health plans and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. Our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how such new or changed laws, regulations and standards should be applied in practice. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. The market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. In addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of U.S. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller. Key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. We do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel. In the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could 40 experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees. We continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed.