ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the year ended September 25, 2011 contained in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Quarterly Report (including, but not limited to, the following section regarding Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, statements concerning future matters, such as the development of new products, enhancements or technologies, industry or regional trends, consumer demand, sales or price levels, challenges to our business model and other statements regarding matters that are not historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading Risk Factors below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Overview Recent Developments Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $4.6 billion, with net income of $1.2 billion, which were impacted by the following key items: We shipped 141 million MSM integrated circuits for CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless devices, an increase of 18% compared to 120 million MSM integrated circuits in the year ago quarter. (1) Total reported device sales were approximately $47.8 billion, an increase of approximately 31% compared to approximately $36.4 billion in the year ago quarter. (2) Against this backdrop, the following recent developments occurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 with respect to key elements of our business or our industry: Worldwide wireless subscriptions grew by approximately 3% to reach approximately 6.3 billion. (3) Worldwide 3G connections (all CDMA-based) grew by approximately 5% to approximately 1.8 billion, which was approximately 28% of total wireless subscriptions, including approximately 554 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO subscriptions and approximately 1.2 billion WCDMA/HSPA/TD-SCDMA subscriptions. (3) (1) Some customers built devices that incorporated two MSM integrated circuits. In such cases, which represent approximately 1% of our gross volume, we count only one MSM integrated circuit in reporting the MSM integrated circuit shipments. (2) Total reported device sales is the sum of all reported sales in U.S. dollars (as reported to us by our licensees) of all licensed CDMA-based, OFDMA-based and multimode CDMA/OFDMA subscriber devices (including handsets, modules, modem cards and other subscriber devices) by our licensees during a particular period. Not all licensees report sales the same way (e.g., some licensees report sales net of permitted deductions, such as transportation, insurance and packing costs, while other licensees report sales and then identify the amount of permitted deductions in their reports), and the way in which licensees report such information may change from time to time. Total reported device sales for a particular period may include prior period activity that was not reported by the licensee until such particular period. (3) According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of July 16, 2012, for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. Wireless Intelligence estimates for CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO subscribers do not include Wireless Local Loop. 24 Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital communications products and services based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, fixed license fees (payable in one or more installments) and ongoing royalties for use of our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services and software hosting services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services revenues and research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless & Internet, or QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are sold to or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players. The MSM integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon-enabled integrated circuits provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. QCT revenues comprised 62% and 61% of total consolidated revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011 , respectively, and 63% and 58% of total consolidated revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011 , respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die, cut from silicon wafers, that have been assembled into packages or modules and have completed the final test manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing business model, we purchase wafers and die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party manufacturers for probe, assembly and final test services. QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL licensing revenues are comprised of license fees as well as royalties based on sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensees) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 34% and 35% of total consolidated revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011 , respectively, and 33% and 37% of total consolidated revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The vast majority of such revenues were generated through our licensees sales of CDMA2000 and WCDMA subscriber equipment products. QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS), Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV) and Firethorn, generates revenues primarily through sales of products, services, including software development, and software aimed at the support and delivery of wireless applications. QES sells integrated wireless systems and services to transportation and logistics companies to manage their assets and workforce. Through June 2012 , QES has shipped approximately 1,586,000 terrestrial-based and satellite-based mobile information units. QIS provides content enablement services for the wireless industry, including Brew, the Plaza suite and other services. QIS also provides QChat push-to-talk and other software products and services for wireless operators. QGOV provides development and other services and related products involving wireless communications technologies to government agencies and their contractors. Firethorn builds and manages software applications that enable mobile 25 commerce services. QWI revenues comprised 3% and 5% of total consolidated revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011 , respectively, and 3% and 5% of total consolidated revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011 , respectively. QSI makes strategic investments that we believe will open new opportunities for our technologies, support the design and introduction of new products and services for voice and data communications or possess unique capabilities or technology. Many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies. QSI also holds wireless spectrum. As part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in the future. The results of QSIs FLO TV business are presented as discontinued operations and are therefore not included in QSIs revenues or loss before income taxes. Since the shut down of the FLO TV business and network on March 27, 2011, we have been working to sell FLO TVs assets and exit contracts. On December 27, 2011, we completed the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion. Nonreportable segments include the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies (QMT) division, which continues to develop an interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology based on micro-electro-mechanical-system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics, and other product initiatives. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we updated the business plan and related internal forecasts for our QMT division to reflect a focus on licensing our next generation IMOD display technology while directly commercializing only certain IMOD products. As a result, we tested the QMT divisions goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment and concluded both that that fair value of the QMT reporting unit was greater than its carrying value and that the carrying values of QMTs long-lived asset groups were recoverable; accordingly, we did not record any impairment charge related to QMT in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Discontinued Operations On March 27, 2011, the FLO TV business and network were shut down. On December 27, 2011 , we completed the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion , and as a result, we recognized a gain in discontinued operations of $1.2 billion during the second quarter of fiscal 2012 . All remaining assets have been considered disposed of since March 27, 2011, the date on which the assets ceased to be used. Since the shut down of the FLO TV business and network, we have been working to sell the remaining assets and exit contracts. Accordingly, the results of operations of the FLO TV business are presented as discontinued operations. Income (loss) from discontinued operations includes share-based payments and excludes certain general corporate expenses allocated to the FLO TV business during the period presented. Summarized results from discontinued operations were as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 24, 2012 June 26, 2011 June 24, 2012 June 26, 2011 Revenues $ $ 1 $ $ 5 (Loss) income from discontinued operations $ (5 ) $ 1 $ 1,163 $ (502 ) Income tax benefit (expense) 2 43 (410 ) 195 Discontinued operations, net of income taxes $ (3 ) $ 44 $ 753 $ (307 ) During the third quarter of fiscal 2011 , in connection with the presentation of the FLO TV business as discontinued operations and the requirement to compute the tax effect of discontinued operations on a discrete basis, we recorded a tax benefit of $43 million related to losses incurred in the first and second quarter of fiscal 2011 that were previously included in the calculation of the estimated annual effective tax rate. Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks enables increased voice capacity and higher data rates than prior generation networks, thereby supporting more minutes of use and a wide range of mobile broadband data applications for handsets, 3G connected computing devices and other consumer electronics. Many wireless operators have or are planning to complement their existing 3G networks by deploying OFDMA-based technology, often called 4G, in new wireless spectrum to gain additional capacity for data services. As a result, we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for 3G and 3G/4G multimode products and services around the world. In addition, we expect an increasing number of devices, such as computers, consumer electronics and networking equipment, to require multiple communications technologies to support a variety of connected applications. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business: 26 The worldwide transition from 2G to 3G networks is expected to continue, including the further expansion of 3G in China, India and other emerging regions. We expect that the emergence of lower-end smartphone products will contribute to such expansion. We expect consumer demand for advanced 3G and 3G/4G multimode devices, including smartphones and data-centric devices, such as tablets and e-readers, to continue at a strong pace. We expect that CDMA-based device prices will continue to vary broadly due to the increased penetration of smartphones combined with active competition throughout the world at all price tiers. Additionally, varying rates of economic growth by region and stronger than average growth of CDMA-based device shipments in emerging regions, as compared to developed regions, are expected to continue to impact the average and range of selling prices of CDMA-based devices. We continue to invest significant resources toward the development of technologies and products for voice and data communications, primarily in the wireless industry, including advancements to networks for 3G and 4G LTE (an OFDMA-based standard) networks, wireless baseband chips, our converged computing/communications (Snapdragon) chips, multimedia products, software and services, as well as our IMOD display technology. We expect demand for 28 nanometer integrated circuits to continue to exceed available supply. Accordingly, we expect to continue to experience supply shortages, relative to demand, for our newly introduced 28 nanometer integrated circuit products. We continue to work with our suppliers to increase our supply of 28 nanometer integrated circuits. Our QCT business anticipates a strong first quarter in fiscal 2013 as the supply of 28 nanometer integrated circuits increases and as new 3G and 3G/4G devices are launched for the holiday season. Further, during the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we expect to implement the previously announced changes to our corporate structure. The revised structure will feature our parent company, Qualcomm Incorporated, which will include our licensing business (the QTL segment), our corporate functions and most of our patent portfolio, and a new wholly-owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., which, along with its subsidiaries, will operate substantially all of our research and development activities, as well as our product and services businesses, including our semiconductor business (the QCT segment). In addition to the foregoing business and market-based matters, we continue to devote resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless industry. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost-effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report. Third Quarter of Fiscal 2012 Compared to Third Quarter of Fiscal 2011 Revenues. Total revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $4.63 billion, compared to $3.62 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . Revenues from sales of equipment and services for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 increased to $2.95 billion from $2.30 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to a $654 million increase in QCT equipment and services revenues. Licensing revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 increased to $1.68 billion from $1.33 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to a $336 million increase in QTL revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services Revenues. Cost of equipment and services revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was $1.72 billion, compared to $1.28 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 58% for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to 56% for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The decrease in margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was primarily attributable to a decrease in QCT gross margin percentage. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future periods depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $974 million or 21% of revenues, compared to $757 million or 21% of revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $166 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products (including connectivity products), next generation technologies and other initiatives to support the 27 acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms, and a $46 million increase in share-based compensation. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $544 million or 12% of revenues, compared to $475 million or 13% of revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $21 million increase in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, a $20 million increase in share-based compensation, a $17 million increase in employee-related expenses, and a $10 million increase in patent-related expenses, partially offset by an $11 million decrease in amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisition of Atheros in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . Other. Other operating expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 included a $7 million goodwill impairment charge related to our Firethorn division. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $199 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to $161 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The net increase was comprised as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended June 24, 2012 June 26, 2011 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 149 117 $ 32 QSI 7 10 (3 ) Interest expense (18 ) (29 ) 11 Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 68 73 (5 ) QSI 2 2 Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (19 ) (5 ) (14 ) QSI (2 ) (5 ) 3 Gains on derivative instruments 13 13 Equity in losses of investees (1 ) (1 ) $ 199 $ 161 $ 38 The increase in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and the segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances and higher interest rates. Gains on derivative instruments primarily related to changes in the fair values of put options issued to noncontrolling interests which have been terminated and derivative instruments held in our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $375 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to $289 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was 24%, compared to 23% for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was higher than the effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 primarily due to lower foreign earnings taxed at rates that are less than the United States federal tax rate as compared to fiscal 2011 partially offset by a reduction in the state tax rate as a result of California tax legislation previously enacted. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 only reflects the United States federal research and development credit generated through December 31, 2011, the date on which the credit expired. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 of 24% was higher than the expected annual effective tax rate of 20%, primarily due to changes in our estimates related to foreign earnings taxed at rates that are less than the Unites States federal tax rates. The estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 of 20% is less than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 15% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate. The prior fiscal year rate was lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, partially offset by state taxes and tax expenses related to the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law. 28 First Nine Months of Fiscal 2012 Compared to First Nine Months of Fiscal 2011 Revenues. Total revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $14.25 billion, compared to $10.84 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . Revenues from sales of equipment and services for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 increased to $9.25 billion from $6.55 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 primarily due to a $2.71 billion increase in QCT equipment and services revenues. Licensing revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 increased to $5.00 billion from $4.29 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 primarily due to a $694 million increase in QTL revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services Revenues. Cost of equipment and services revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was $5.26 billion, compared to $3.38 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 57% for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to 52% for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The decrease in margin percentage in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2011 was primarily attributable to a decrease in QCT gross margin percentage. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $2.80 billion or 20% of revenues, compared to $2.14 billion or 20% of revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $531 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products (including connectivity products), next generation technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms, and a $117 million increase in share-based compensation. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $1.64 billion or 12% of revenues, compared to $1.41 million or 13% of revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $62 million increase in share-based compensation, a $61 million increase in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, a $54 million increase in employee-related expenses, a $30 million increase in selling and marketing expenses, a $21 million increase in patent-related expenses, a $16 million increase in travel expenses, a $14 million increase in occupancy costs and a $12 million increase in foreign currency transaction losses, partially offset by a $55 million decrease in charitable donations. Charitable donations decreased primarily due to the establishment of the Qualcomm Charitable Foundation in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Other. Other operating expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 included an $81 million charge related to the payment made to the Indian government in connection with the issuance of the BWA spectrum license and $23 million in goodwill impairment charges related to our Firethorn division. Other operating expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 included a $114 million goodwill impairment charge related to our Firethorn division. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $589 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to $574 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The net increase was comprised as follows (in millions): 29 Nine Months Ended June 24, 2012 June 26, 2011 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 413 $ 369 $ 44 QSI 18 15 3 Interest expense (74 ) (84 ) 10 Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 185 303 (118 ) QSI 29 1 28 Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (44 ) (16 ) (28 ) QSI (20 ) (10 ) (10 ) Gains on derivative instruments 87 1 86 Equity in losses of investees (5 ) (5 ) $ 589 $ 574 $ 15 The increase in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and the segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances. The decrease in net realized gains on investments in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2011 was primarily due to adjustments in the allocation of our marketable securities portfolios in fiscal 2011. The increase in gains on derivative instruments primarily resulted from a decrease in the fair value of put options sold in connection with our stock repurchase program. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $993 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to $862 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The effective tax rates for the first nine months of both fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 were 20%. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 reflects a reduced tax benefit as a result of lower foreign earnings taxed at rates that are less than the United States federal tax rate as compared to fiscal 2011, offset by a lower state tax rate as compared to fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in the state tax rate as a result of California tax legislation previously enacted. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 reflects a tax benefit of $32 million resulting from the retroactive extension of the United States federal research and development tax credit in fiscal 2011. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 only reflects the United States federal research and development credit generated through December 31, 2011, the date on which the credit expired. Our Segment Results for the Third Quarter of Fiscal 2012 Compared to the Third Quarter of Fiscal 2011 The following should be read in conjunction with the third quarter financial results of fiscal 2012 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7 - Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $2.87 billion, compared to $2.19 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $2.80 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to $2.15 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $390 million increase related to higher unit shipments, a $209 million increase related to sales of connectivity products, primarily resulting from the acquisition of Atheros on May 24, 2011, and a $37 million increase related to the net effects of changes in product mix and lower average selling prices of such products. (1) Approximately 141 million MSM integrated circuits for CDMA- and OFDMA- based wireless devices were sold during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to approximately 120 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . QCT earnings before taxes for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $472 million, compared to $430 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The increase in QCT earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in QCT revenues, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in gross margin percentage, a $154 million increase in research and development expenses and a $44 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 16% in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to 20% in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin percentage, partially offset by a higher increase in QCT revenues relative to the increase in research and 30 development expenses. QCT gross margin percentage decreased as a result of the net effects of lower average selling prices, unfavorable product mix and higher product support costs, partially offset by a decrease in average unit costs. Starting with acquisitions in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, expenses related to the step-up of acquired inventories to fair value and amortization of acquired intangible assets are not allocated to our operating segments. Expenses related to acquisitions assigned to QCT that were not included in QCTs earnings before taxes were $59 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to $77 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . QTL Segment. QTL revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $1.59 billion, compared to $1.26 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The $336 million increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA-based devices by licensees and higher average royalties per unit of CDMA-based devices. QTL earnings before taxes for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $1.41 billion, compared to $1.09 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . QTL operating margin percentage was 88% in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 , compared to 87% in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . QWI Segment. QWI revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $160 million, compared to $164 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . QWI loss before taxes for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was $6 million, compared to $13 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The $7 million decrease in QWI loss before taxes was primarily attributable to a $12 million decrease in QIS operating loss, partially offset by a $3 million increase in our Firethorn divisions operating loss. The Firethorn operating loss included a $7 million goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 . QSI Segment. QSI loss before taxes from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was $16 million, compared to $30 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 . The $14 million decrease in QSI loss before taxes from continuing operations was primarily attributable to an $11 million decrease in interest expense as a result of capitalizing interest starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 related to the BWA network build-out. Our Segment Results for the First Nine Months of Fiscal 2012 Compared to the First Nine Months of Fiscal 2011 The following should be read in conjunction with the first nine months financial results of fiscal 2012 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7 - Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $9.01 billion, compared to $6.27 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $8.83 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to $6.12 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The increase in equipment and services revenues primarily resulted from a $1.59 billion increase related to higher unit shipments, a $793 million increase related to sales of connectivity products, primarily resulting from the acquisition of Atheros in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 , and a $280 million increase related to the net effects of changes in product mix and lower average selling prices of such products. (1) Approximately 449 million MSM integrated circuits for CDMA- and OFDMA- based wireless devices were sold during the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to approximately 356 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . QCT earnings before taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $1.81 billion, compared to $1.49 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The increase in QCT earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in QCT revenues, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in gross margin percentage, a $512 million increase in research and development expenses and a $142 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 20% in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to 24% in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin percentage, partially offset by a higher increase in QCT revenues relative to the increase in research and development expenses. QCT gross margin percentage decreased as a result of the net effects of lower average selling prices, unfavorable product mix and higher product support costs, partially offset by a decrease in average unit costs. Expenses related to acquisitions assigned to QCT that were not included in QCTs earnings before taxes were $174 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to $77 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . QTL Segment. QTL revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $4.76 billion, compared to $4.06 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we entered into agreements with two licensees to settle disputes, including an arbitration proceeding with Panasonic, and recorded $401 million in revenues related to prior quarters. The $1.10 billion increase in revenues (before the $401 million offset) was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA-based devices by licensees and higher average royalties per unit of CDMA-based devices. QTL earnings before taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $4.22 billion, compared to $3.56 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . QTL operating margin percentage was 89% in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , 31 compared to 88% in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . QWI Segment. QWI revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 were $471 million, compared to $493 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . The decrease in QWI revenues was primarily due to an $18 million decrease in QES revenues attributable to lower shipments of mobile information units and lower services revenues. QWI loss before taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was $15 million, compared to $147 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . QWI operating expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011 included $23 million and $114 million, respectively, in goodwill impairment charges related to our Firethorn division. The $41 million decrease in QWI loss before taxes, excluding these charges, was primarily attributable to a $23 million decrease in Firethorn operating loss (before the impairment charges) and a $23 million decrease in QIS operating loss. QSI Segment. QSI loss before taxes from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was $149 million, compared to $97 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . QSI operating expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 included $81 million related to the payment made to the Indian government in connection with issuance of the BWA spectrum license. The $29 million decrease in QSI loss before taxes from continuing operations, excluding this charge, was primarily attributable to a $28 million increase in net realized gains on investments. (1) Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we updated the method we use to quantify the dollar impact of changes in QCT unit shipments as compared to the impact of changes in product mix and changes in product prices. The information presented for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was calculated using the updated method. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $26.5 billion at June 24, 2012 , an increase of $5.6 billion from September 25, 2011 . This increase included $1.9 billion in proceeds from the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum and $1.4 billion in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our equity compensation plans. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at June 24, 2012 consisted of $9.6 billion held domestically and $16.9 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. Of the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries at June 24, 2012 , $15.8 billion is indefinitely reinvested and would be subject to material tax effects if repatriated. Due to tax and accounting considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and investments held domestically. Total cash provided by operating activities increased to $4.6 billion during the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , compared to $3.1 billion during the first nine months of fiscal 2011 . During the first nine months of fiscal 2012 , we repurchased 8,606,000 shares of our common stock for $ 471 million . In connection with our stock repurchase program, we had one put option outstanding at June 24, 2012 , which was sold in fiscal 2011, with an expiration date during fiscal 2012 that may require us to repurchase 4,000,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for $176 million , net of premiums received. Any shares repurchased are retired. At June 24, 2012 , approximately $3.5 billion remained available for repurchase under our stock repurchase program, net of the put option outstanding. Since June 24, 2012 , we repurchased and retired 11,251,000 shares of our common stock for $ 617 million . The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. We continue to evaluate repurchases as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to our periodic determinations that repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders. We paid cash dividends totaling $429 million, or $0.25 per share on June 20, 2012. On July 6, 2012 , we announced a cash dividend per share of $0.25 per share on our common stock, payable on September 26, 2012 to stockholders of record as of September 7, 2012 . We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to our periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Accounts receivable increased 5% during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 . Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 24 days at June 24, 2012 , compared to 22 days at March 25, 2012 . The increase in accounts receivable and the related days sales outstanding were primarily due to the effects of timing of shipments and customer payments for receivables related to integrated circuits. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and our expected cash flow generated from operations will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans. Our research and development expenditures were $2.8 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and $3.0 billion in fiscal 2011 , and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for voice and data communications, primarily in the wireless industry. 32 Capital expenditures were $1.0 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and $593 million in fiscal 2011 . Capital expenditures are higher in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to more than $500 million in capital expenditures estimated for fiscal 2012 related to the construction of a new manufacturing facility in Taiwan for our QMT division. The facility is primarily being funded using cash held by foreign subsidiaries. We expect to continue to incur capital expenditures in the future to support our business, including research and development activities. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted. Our purchase obligations for the remainder of fiscal 2012 and for fiscal 2013, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $1.9 billion and $320 million, respectively, at June 24, 2012 . The acquisition of Atheros in fiscal 2011 was more significant than others we have made in the past. We expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions, the amounts of which could vary significantly, to open new opportunities for our technologies, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new business. We have loan and debenture obligations in the aggregate of $968 million related to the BWA spectrum won in India that are denominated in Indian rupees. At June 24, 2012 , loans in the aggregate of $504 million are due and payable in full on December 18, 2012, and $464 million in debentures, including accrued interest, are due and payable in full on June 25, 2017. The loans bear interest at rates that are reset quarterly (ranging from 10.25% to 10.75% at June 24, 2012 ); interest payments are due monthly. The debentures bear interest at an agreed-upon annual rate, which is compounded annually and reset semi-annually beginning on June 25, 2013 ( 10.25% at June 24, 2012 ) with interest due upon redemption. However, each holder has the right to demand redemption of its portion of the debentures outstanding on June 25, 2013 subject to sufficient prior written notice. As a result, the debentures were classified as a component of current liabilities. Contractual Obligations/Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated balance sheet at June 24, 2012 included an aggregate of $504 million and $464 million in loans and debentures, respectively, that are payable in full in Indian rupees on December 18, 2012 and June 25, 2017 , respectively. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii). Additional information regarding our financial commitments at June 24, 2012 is provided in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4 Income Taxes, Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies and Note 8 Discontinued Operations. Future Accounting Pronouncements In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board revised the authoritative guidance for comprehensive income to require an entity to present total comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements and eliminated the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. The guidance will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and should be applied retrospectively. The adoption of the guidance will impact the presentation of the financial statements but will not impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Quarterly Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2011 , including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Businesses Our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of technologies based on CDMA and OFDMA, among others, and upgrades of 2G, 3G and 3G/4G multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services 33 based on these technologies. We develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on CDMA and OFDMA, among others. Our revenues are dependent upon the commercial deployment of these technologies and products and upgrades of 2G, 3G and 3G/4G multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. Our business may be harmed, and our investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return if: wireless operators delay moving 2G customers to 3G devices; wireless operators delay 3G and/or 3G/4G multimode deployments, expansions or upgrades; government regulators delay the reallocation of 2G spectrum to allow wireless operators to upgrade to 3G, which will restrict the expansion of 3G wireless connectivity, primarily outside of major population areas; wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3G network performance and/or capacity; LTE, an OFDMA-based wireless standard, is not widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; or wireless operators and other industries using these technologies deploy other technologies. Our business is dependent on our ability to increase our share of components sold and to continue to drive the adoption of our products and services into 3G, 3G/4G multimode and 4G wireless devices and networks. We are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless operators and other industries using our technologies, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services, and they may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on these technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or other factors. If commercial deployment of these technologies, upgrade of 2G subscribers to 3G devices or upgrades to 3G, 3G/4G multimode or 4G wireless communications equipment, products or services based on these technologies do not continue or are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer. Our licensing revenues can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on CDMA, OFDMA and their derivatives or by the need to extend certain existing license agreements to cover additional later patents. Although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to GSM, GPRS, EDGE, OFDM, OFDMA, WLAN and Multiple Input, Multiple Output (MIMO) technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our CDMA licensing program. Many wireless operators are investigating or have selected LTE (or to a lesser extent WiMAX) as next-generation technologies for deployment in existing or future wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing CDMA-based networks. Although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the LTE and WiMAX industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to more than 25 companies (including LG, Nokia and Samsung) to make and sell products implementing those standards but not implementing 3G standards, the royalty rates for such products are generally lower than our royalty rates for 3G products (whether or not such 3G products also incorporate a LTE or WiMAX mode of operation), and therefore, we might not achieve the same licensing revenues on such LTE or WiMAX products as on CDMA-based or multimode CDMA/OFDMA-based products. The licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. As a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us or royalties are not owed to us under such license agreements after the specified time period. In order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We might not be able to modify those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications may impact our revenues. Global economic conditions that impact the communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and our customers products, which may negatively affect our revenues. Volatility in capital markets or a decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high customer concentrations, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. Any prolonged financial or economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in reporting 34 and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. In addition, our direct and indirect customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to cancellation or delay of orders for our products. Our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees, declining average selling prices for our licensees products and our products and/or new specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. Technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. Our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and the revenues generated or the timing of their deployment, which may be dependent on the actions of others, may not meet our expectations. Competition in the communications industry is affected by various factors that include, among others: evolving industry standards; evolving methods of transmission for voice and data communications; networking; value-added features that drive replacement rates and selling prices; turnkey, integrated product offerings that incorporate hardware, software, user interface and applications; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: increase demand for our integrated circuit products and drive their adoption across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones and tablets, and into new areas of wireless connectivity, including gaming, wireless charging and the connected home; strengthen our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and develop channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions requiring turnkey product offerings for low-end smartphones; be a preferred partner for operating system platforms, such as Android and Windows Phone, and effectively commercialize Windows 8 on ARM processor-equipped devices; focus our service businesses on key opportunities, such as eHealth and machine-to-machine technologies (allowing both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices), among others, that create standalone value and/or contribute to the success of our other businesses; be a leader in the 4G technology evolution, including expansion of our LTE (and WiMAX) single mode licensing program and timely introduction of 4G turnkey, integrated products and services; and succeed in significant foreign regions, such as China, India and Europe. Companies that promote WWAN (Wireless Wide Area Network) technologies that are neither CDMA- nor OFDMA-based (e.g., GSM) and companies that design integrated circuits based on CDMA, OFDMA or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. Examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include Broadcom, CSR plc, Freescale, Intel, Lantiq, Marvell Technology, Mediatek, nVidia, Renesas Electronics, Samsung, Spreadtrum Communications, ST-Ericsson (a joint venture between Ericsson Mobile Platforms and ST-NXP Wireless), Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. Many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; foreign government support of other technologies; and more extensive relationships with indigenous distribution and original equipment manufacturer companies in developing territories (e.g., China). Certain of our software and our suppliers software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our chipsets, that will incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a products source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. Licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. For example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. Developing open source 35 products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. Also, our use and our customers use of open source software may subject our products and our customers products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors products. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employed adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. Competition may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. Reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced total royalties payable to us. We anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. If revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease, our operating results could be negatively affected. Our QCT segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers. The loss of any one of our QCT segments significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay or cancellation and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results. Accordingly, unless and until our QCT segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will largely depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. Although we have more than 215 licensees, our QTL segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. Our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. We have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the average selling price of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have an adverse effect on our revenues. Efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by foreign governments, U.S. government agencies, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) or other industry groups that harm our business. A small number of companies, in the past, have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. These strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, and/or patent and/or license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations, and (v) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holders ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. Some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by SDOs and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. They have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. Others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement. A number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain SDOs concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our and/or other companies alleged failure to abide by these policies. There is a risk that relevant courts or governmental 36 agencies will interpret some or all of those proposals in a manner adverse to our interests. If such proposals and strategies continue and are successful in the future, our business model would be harmed, either by artificially limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the SDOs or such other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. As well, the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. We assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. Other companies or entities have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of one or more of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. Such adverse decisions, depending upon their extent, could negatively impact our revenues. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights or could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. Policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United States, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. We may have difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including: challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the United States; and challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our wireless chipset products. A substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. We may need to litigate in the United States or elsewhere in the world to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. These claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. We may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products were found to infringe on another companys intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. In any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. We are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. Reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the 37 businesses of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect upon our operating results. We expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the U.S. International Trade Commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. We may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers devices using our chipsets). Any imposition of royalty payments might make purchases of our chipsets less economical for our customers. A negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. A number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various CDMA standards, GSM standards and OFDMA standards or implementations of systems based on such standards. If we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more of such other patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our CDMA, GSM, OFDMA or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees products and our results of operations. Our earnings and stock price are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include, among others: volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular that is often unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company; announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling price of our licensees products and our products; unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; or inquiries, rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert managements attention and resources. Changes in financial market volatility and liquidity may result in declines in the value and performance of our significant portfolio of marketable securities. Net investment income could vary depending on the gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, impairment charges related to marketable securities and other investments, changes in interest rates and changes in fair values of derivative instruments. These factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. If our earnings fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for our procurement, manufacture and testing of product 38 inventories. If these third-party suppliers fail to meet our needs, or if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or a loss of, any of these third-party suppliers, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues, increase our operating expenses and harm our business. We purchase raw materials, component parts, subassemblies and specialized manufacturing equipment from our suppliers and contract with separate suppliers for probe, assembly, test and other services in the manufacture of our product inventories. A reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply source, a failure by our suppliers to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products or their inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, our business and/or our profitability. The loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues, business operations and ability to compete for future business. In the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could cause us to incur additional expense and production delays, resulting in possible loss of customers. While our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. Our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. QCT Segment. Although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, these contracts generally do not provide for long-term capacity commitments, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that has been accepted by our supplier. To the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. Accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We have experienced and are currently experiencing capacity limitations from our suppliers, resulting in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand, as well as increased operating expenses as we attempt to facilitate additional supply. The readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could also impact our ability to meet customer demand, increase our operating expenses and subject us to the risk of excess inventories. Our inability to meet customer demand and/or the additional operating expenses that we incur because of these or other supply constraints could negatively impact our business, our revenues and our results of operations. QMT Division. Our QMT division needs to further develop its business relationships with raw materials and component supply partners to support the manufacture of IMOD products. We depend on certain raw materials, components and specialized manufacturing equipment, primarily from suppliers in Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, to produce our IMOD products, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities and acceptable quality of raw materials, components and equipment in the future to support commercial production. The effect of these supplier-related risks could negatively impact the adoption of the IMOD technology. Our suppliers may also be our competitors, putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. One or more of our suppliers may obtain rights from us to manufacture CDMA- or OFDMA-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. In this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. In addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. We cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. We may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. We engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We acquire businesses and other assets, including wireless spectrum, patents and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies. Many of our strategic investments are in early-stage companies to expand the wireless industry and promote the global adoption of CDMA- or OFDMA-based technologies and related services. Most 39 of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. Our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. Our share of any losses will adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. Achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, such as our acquisition of Atheros, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, business systems and technology; retaining customers and suppliers of the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. We may not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. Additionally, we may not be successful in expanding into geographic regions and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to an acquired business and in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. Due to our inexperience with products and/or geographic regions served by acquired businesses, we may overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may fail to achieve them. For example, Atheros business has focused on LAN connectivity and products for WLAN (also referred to as WiFi) and other technologies primarily for networking, computing and other consumer electronic devices. We may not realize the expected return on our investment in Atheros if we do not effectively execute upon the product and business strategies and/or other opportunities created by the acquisition. Our QMT divisions business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its operating results may not meet our expectations. While we continue to believe our QMT divisions IMOD display technology will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, other technologies may continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate. Sales of flat panel displays are currently dominated, and we believe will likely continue to be dominated for some time, by displays based on liquid crystal display (LCD) technology. Numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, LCDs. Additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (OLED), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. In each case, advances in LCD or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our IMOD technology. These advances in competing technologies might cause device manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us or to not renew planned or existing relationships with us. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we updated the business plan and related internal forecasts for our QMT division to reflect a focus on licensing our next generation IMOD display technology while directly commercializing only certain IMOD products. We may not evolve our QMT division into a successful licensing business or IMOD product supplier if we are unable to develop our IMOD display technology to meet market demands or to cost-effectively manufacture and commercialize our IMOD products, among other factors. In addition, we have limited experience commercializing IMOD products, and we may be unsuccessful in selling such products. Our QMT division had $1.3 billion in assets (including $136 million in goodwill) at June 24, 2012 . If we do not expect to achieve or do not achieve the cash flows anticipated in QMTs updated business plan, our assets may become impaired, negatively impacting our operating results, and we may not meet future earnings projections related to this business. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the U.S. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. Our international customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. Consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and in each of the last three fiscal years. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies that could negatively affect our operating results. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following, among others: 40 Our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the United States may become less price-competitive as a result of adverse currency fluctuations; Certain of our revenues, such as royalties, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. Weakening of currency values versus the U.S. dollar in selected regions could reduce our revenues and cash flows; We may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and results of operations because they may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; Our loan and debenture obligations are denominated in Indian rupees. If the U.S. dollar weakens, additional cash may be required to settle this obligation and the related interest; Currency exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the U.S. dollar value of our marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies; and Certain suppliers may price goods in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A weakening dollar would result in higher than expected costs for these goods. Failures in our products and services or in the products of our customers, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. The use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. While we continue to expand our focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve in a 3G/4G environment, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk that security failures will occur. Our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. For example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. The design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. Manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. Because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of their products. Such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships, and other financial liability or harm to our business. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers or licensees confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. In such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we established QCTs non-United States headquarters in Singapore. We have obtained tax incentives in Singapore that result in a tax exemption for the first five years provided that we meet specified employment and incentive criteria in Singapore. The location of QCTs headquarters in Singapore will not result in any 41 change in foreign tax during this period, as compared to tax that would be owed under the previous structure of QCTs non-United States operations. Our Singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027 as a result of expiration of these incentives. If we fail to meet the criteria required to benefit from such incentives, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. No provision has been made for United States federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the United States international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. If wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers and licensees may decrease. Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions continue. Interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over, and state laws have been enacted to mitigate, the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. Legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns or adverse news or findings about safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the United States as well as in foreign countries. We are subject to government regulations. Our business may suffer as a result of changes in laws or regulations, our failure or inability to comply with laws or regulations or adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings. National, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. These laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products. It may also be difficult to comply with laws and regulations in a timely manner, and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. There is also the potential for higher costs driven by environmental regulations. Our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. As part of the development and commercialization of our IMOD display technology, we are operating both a development and a production fabrication facility. The development and commercialization of IMOD display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving restricted materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development and production activities. Our products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various regulations, including FCC regulations in the United States and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of international, national and regional standards bodies. The adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in the regulation of our activities, or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have an adverse effect on our business, including, among other factors, changes in laws, policies, practices or enforcement affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, spectrum license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of wireless device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection, loans and employment. One of our subsidiaries in India holds BWA spectrum that will be used to operate a wireless network. Bharti Airtel Limited (Bharti), an Indian wireless network operator, holds a 49% interest in this and other subsidiaries formed to operate the wireless network (the BWA subsidiaries). Our license to use the BWA spectrum is subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met within 3.5 years of the effective date of the license. If we do not meet these requirements, the Government of Indias Department of Telecommunications could impose a fine or could rescind the license in the area(s) in which the build-out requirements are not met. There are also other contingencies, including unexpected regulatory delays or conditions, which could adversely impact our ability to successfully and timely exit the BWA subsidiaries as anticipated. Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, business conduct, public disclosure and health 42 care are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. Laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. As a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. Evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. The market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. In addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the United States, making the pool of available talent even smaller. Key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in our industry. We continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed.