ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report and with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the year ended September 30, 2012 contained in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Quarterly Report (including, but not limited to, the following section regarding Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, statements concerning future matters, such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, industry or regional trends, consumer demand, sales or price levels, challenges to our business model, capital expenditures, investments in research and development, strategic investments and acquisitions and other statements regarding matters that are not historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading Risk Factors below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Overview Recent Developments Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 were $6.1 billion , with net income of $1.9 billion , which were impacted by the following key items: We shipped approximately 173 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless devices, an increase of 14%, compared to 152 million MSM integrated circuits in the year ago quarter. Total reported device sales were approximately $61.1 billion, an increase of approximately 18%, compared to approximately $51.7 billion in the year ago quarter. (1) Against this backdrop, the following recent developments occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2013 with respect to key elements of our business or our industry: Worldwide wireless connections grew by approximately 2% to reach approximately 6.6 billion. (2) Worldwide 3G connections (all CDMA-based) grew by approximately 4% to approximately 2.0 billion, which was approximately 30% of total wireless subscriptions, including approximately 537 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO subscriptions and approximately 1.5 billion WCDMA/HSPA/TD-SCDMA subscriptions. (2) (1) Total reported device sales is the sum of all reported sales in U.S. dollars (as reported to us by our licensees) of all licensed CDMA-based, OFDMA-based and CDMA/OFDMA multimode subscriber devices (including handsets, modules, modem cards and other subscriber devices) by our licensees during a particular period (collectively, 3G/4G devices). Not all licensees report sales the same way (e.g., some licensees report sales net of permitted deductions, such as transportation, insurance and packing costs, while other licensees report sales and then identify the amount of permitted deductions in their reports), and the way in which licensees report such information may change from time to time. Total reported device sales for a particular period may include prior period activity that was not reported by the licensee until such particular period. (2) According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of April 22, 2013, for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 (estimates exclude Wireless Local Loop). 22 Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital communications products and services based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, fixed license fees (payable in one or more installments) and ongoing royalties for use of our intellectual property, and fees for messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing, and related services and software hosting services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services revenues and research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments: QCT, QTL, QWI and QSI. Our reportable segments are operated by QUALCOMM Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. At the beginning of fiscal 2013, we completed a corporate reorganization in which certain assets of QUALCOMM Incorporated, as well as the stock of certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, were contributed to its wholly-owned subsidiary Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (QTI). QTL continues to be operated by QUALCOMM Incorporated, which continues to own the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Substantially all of our products and services businesses, including QCT, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by QTI and its subsidiaries. Neither QTI nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by QUALCOMM Incorporated. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are sold to or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players. The MSM integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon processor-based devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon processors provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. QCT revenues comprised 64% and 62% of total consolidated revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and 66% and 64% of total consolidated revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have been assembled into packages or modules and have completed the final test manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase wafers and die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party manufacturers for probe, assembly and final test services. QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL licensing revenues are comprised of license fees as well as royalties based on sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensees) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL recognizes royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter and when other revenue recognition criteria are met. Licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter. QTL revenues comprised 34% and 35% of total consolidated revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and 31% and 33% of total consolidated revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The vast majority of such revenues were generated through our licensees sales of CDMA2000 and WCDMA subscriber equipment products. 23 QWI, which includes our Omnitracs (formerly QES), QIS, QGOV and QRS (Qualcomm Retail Solutions, formerly Firethorn) divisions, generates revenues primarily through sales of products, services (including software development) and software aimed at the support and delivery of wireless applications. Omnitracs sells integrated wireless systems and services to transportation and logistics companies to manage their assets and workforce. QIS provides content enablement services for the wireless industry, including its Brew, Plaza and other products and services. QIS also provides QChat push-to-talk and other software products and services for wireless operators. QGOV provides development and other services and related products involving wireless communications technologies to government agencies and their contractors. QRS builds and manages software applications that enable certain mobile commerce services. QWI revenues comprised 3% of total consolidated revenues in the second quarter of both fiscal 2013 and 2012 and 2% and 3% of total consolidated revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively. QSI makes strategic investments that we believe will open new opportunities for our technologies, support the design and introduction of new products and services for voice and data communications or possess unique capabilities or technology. Many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies. QSI also holds wireless spectrum, including the broadband wireless access (BWA) spectrum held by our subsidiaries (BWA subsidiaries) that were established to operate a wireless network in India. As part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies from each of our QSI investments at some point in the future. The assets and liabilities of the BWA subsidiaries were presented as held for sale at March 31, 2013 as a result of our agreement with Bharti Airtel Limited (Bharti), which provides that Bhartis ownership interest in the BWA subsidiaries will increase over time to 100% if certain conditions are met. Nonreportable segments are comprised of display and other product and services initiatives, including our QMT division. QMT continues to develop an interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology based on micro-electro-mechanical-system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics. Seasonality. Many of our products are incorporated into wireless devices that are sold to consumers, which are subject to seasonality and other fluctuations in demand. As a result, historically, QCT has tended to have stronger sales toward the end of the calendar year as manufacturers prepare for major holiday selling seasons, and QTL has tended to record higher royalty revenues in the first calendar quarter when licensees report their sales made during the fourth calendar quarter. These seasonal trends may not continue in the future. Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks enables increased voice capacity and higher data rates than prior generation networks, thereby supporting more minutes of use and a wide range of mobile broadband data applications for handsets, 3G connected computing devices and other consumer electronics. According to the Global mobile Suppliers Association (GSA), as of April 2013, to complement their existing 3G networks, more than 160 wireless operators have deployed and more than 360 wireless operators are planning to deploy OFDMA-based technology, often called 4G, in new wireless spectrum to gain additional capacity for data services. As a result, we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for 3G and 3G/4G multimode products and services around the world. In addition, we expect an increasing number of devices, such as computers, consumer electronics and networking equipment, to require multiple communications technologies to support a variety of connected applications. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business: The worldwide transition from 2G to 3G and 3G/4G networks is expected to continue, including the further expansion of 3G in emerging regions, such as China. We expect that the emergence of lower-end smartphone products will contribute to such expansion. We expect consumer demand for advanced 3G and 3G/4G multimode devices, including smartphones and data-centric devices, to continue at a strong pace. We expect that CDMA-based device prices will continue to vary broadly due to the increased penetration of smartphones combined with active competition throughout the world at all price tiers. Additionally, varying rates of economic growth by region and stronger growth of CDMA-based device shipments in emerging regions, as compared to developed regions, are expected to continue to impact the average and range of selling prices of CDMA-based devices. We continue to invest significant resources toward the development of technologies and products for voice and data communications, primarily in the wireless industry, including advancements to 3G, 3G/4G and 4G LTE (an OFDMA-based standard) technologies, wireless baseband chips, our converged computing/communications 24 (Snapdragon) chips, multimedia products, software and services, as well as our IMOD and other display technologies. In addition to the foregoing business and market-based matters, we continue to devote resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless industry. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost-effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. Further discussion of risks related to our businesses is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report. Results of Operations Revenues (in millions) Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change Equipment and services $ 3,990 $ 3,137 $ 853 $ 8,189 $ 6,305 $ 1,884 Licensing 2,134 1,806 328 3,954 3,320 634 $ 6,124 $ 4,943 $ 1,181 $ 12,143 $ 9,625 $ 2,518 The increases in equipment and services revenues in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2013 were primarily due to increases in QCT revenues of $865 million and $1.90 billion, respectively. The increases in licensing revenues in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2013 were primarily due to increases in QTL revenues of $334 million and $651 million, respectively. Operating Expenses (in millions) Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change Cost of equipment and services (E&S) revenues $ 2,372 $ 1,783 $ 589 $ 4,609 $ 3,537 $ 1,072 Cost as % of E&S revenues 59 % 57 % 56 % 56 % The decrease in margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 was primarily attributable to a decrease in QCT margin percentage. Our margin percentage may fluctuate in future periods depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change Research and development $ 1,214 $ 954 $ 260 $ 2,320 $ 1,827 $ 493 % of revenues 20 % 19 % 19 % 19 % Selling, general, and administrative $ 661 $ 595 $ 66 $ 1,248 $ 1,098 $ 150 % of revenues 11 % 12 % 10 % 11 % Other $ $ 97 $ (97 ) $ $ 97 $ (97 ) The dollar increases in research and development expenses in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2013 were primarily attributable to increases of $213 million and $408 million, respectively, in costs related to the development of CDMA-based 3G, OFDMA-based 4G LTE and other technologies for integrated circuit and related software products and to expand our intellectual property portfolio and increases of $30 million and $60 million, respectively, in share-based compensation. 25 The dollar increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 was primarily attributable to increases of $31 million in employee-related expenses, $20 million in patent-related expenses and $14 million in selling and marketing expenses. The dollar increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in the first six months of fiscal 2013 was primarily attributable to increases of $61 million in employee-related expenses, $25 million in patent-related expenses and $20 million in costs related to litigation and other legal matters. Other operating expenses for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2012 included an $81 million charge related to the payment made to the Indian government concurrent with the issuance of the BWA spectrum license and a $16 million goodwill impairment charge related to our QRS division. Net Investment Income (in millions) Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change QSI: Interest and dividend income $ 4 $ 8 $ (4 ) $ 5 $ 11 $ (6 ) Interest expense (6 ) (26 ) 20 (12 ) (51 ) 39 Net realized gains on investments 43 20 23 47 27 20 Net impairment losses on investments (2 ) (12 ) 10 (8 ) (17 ) 9 Gains on derivative instruments 2 (2 ) 3 (3 ) Equity in losses of investees (1 ) (2 ) 1 (4 ) (4 ) Other segments and corporate: Interest and dividend income 177 138 39 342 264 78 Interest expense (1 ) (3 ) 2 (3 ) (6 ) 3 Net realized gains on investments 41 81 (40 ) 132 117 15 Net impairment losses on investments (10 ) (12 ) 2 (14 ) (26 ) 12 Gains on derivative instruments 14 26 (12 ) 12 71 (59 ) $ 259 $ 220 $ 39 $ 497 $ 389 $ 108 The decreases in QSI interest expense in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2013 resulted from capitalizing a portion of interest starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 related to the BWA network in India. The increases in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by other segments and corporate in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2013 resulted from higher average cash and marketable securities balances. The decrease in net realized gains on investments held by corporate in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 primarily resulted from decreases in fair values of certain debt securities held in our trading portfolios due to adverse changes in foreign currencies and interest rates. Gains on derivative instruments held by corporate in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2012 primarily resulted from changes in the fair value of put options sold in connection with our stock repurchase program that expired in fiscal 2012. Income Tax Expense (in millions) Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Change Income tax expense $ 273 $ 296 $ (23 ) $ 697 $ 617 $ 80 Effective tax rate 13 % 17 % (4 %) 16 % 18 % (2 %) 26 The following table summarizes the primary factors that caused our effective tax rates for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012 to be less than the United States federal statutory rate: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 25, 2012 Expected income tax provision at federal statutory tax rate 35 % 35 % 35 % 35 % Benefits from foreign income taxed at other than U.S. rates (17 %) (17 %) (17 %) (17 %) Benefits related to the research and development tax credit (6 %) (1 %) (3 %) (1 %) Other 1 % % 1 % 1 % Effective tax rate 13 % 17 % 16 % 18 % During the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the United States government reinstated the federal research and development tax credit retroactively to January 1, 2012 and extended the credit through December 31, 2013. As a result of the reinstatement, we recorded a tax benefit of $64 million related to fiscal 2012 in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. The estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 of 16% also reflects the tax benefit from such reinstatement for fiscal 2013. The fiscal 2012 annual effective tax rate of 19% only reflected the United States federal research and development credit generated through December 31, 2011, the date on which the credit originally expired. Segment Results The following should be read in conjunction with the second quarter and first six months financial results of fiscal 2013 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7 - Segment Information. QCT QTL QWI QSI Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 Revenues $ 3,916 $ 2,057 $ 155 $ EBT (1) 681 1,803 33 EBT as a % of revenues 17 % 88 % % Three Months Ended March 25, 2012 Revenues $ 3,059 $ 1,723 $ 159 $ EBT (1) 599 1,540 (10 ) (99 ) EBT as a % of revenues 20 % 89 % (6 %) Six Months Ended March 31, 2013 Revenues $ 8,036 $ 3,813 $ 301 $ EBT (1) 1,749 3,335 (4 ) 16 EBT as a % of revenues 22 % 87 % (1 %) Six Months Ended March 25, 2012 Revenues $ 6,143 $ 3,162 $ 311 $ EBT (1) 1,338 2,808 (9 ) (133 ) EBT as a % of revenues 22 % 89 % (3 %) (1) Earnings (loss) before taxes. QCT Segment. The increases in QCT revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 of $857 million and $1.89 billion, respectively, were primarily due to increases in equipment and services revenues. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $3.87 billion and $3.00 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and $7.94 billion and $6.03 billion in the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The increases in equipment and services revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 resulted primarily from increases of $410 million and $1.03 billion, respectively, related to the net effects of changes in product mix and lower selling prices of such products and increases of $333 million and $730 million, respectively, related to higher unit shipments. Approximately 173 million and 152 27 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during the second quarter of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and approximately 354 million and 308 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The decrease in QCT EBT as a percentage of revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 was due to a decrease in gross margin percentage, partially offset by an increase of 28% in QCT revenues relative to a combined increase of 24% in research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. QCT gross margin percentage decreased as a result of normal price declines and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by decreases in average unit costs. QCT inventories increased by 17% in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 from $1.23 billion to $1.44 billion primarily due to an increase in finished goods and work-in-process related to the growth of the business. QTL Segment. The increases in QTL revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 of $334 million and $651 million, respectively, were primarily due to increases in sales of CDMA-based devices by licensees. The decreases in QTL EBT as a percentage of revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 were attributable to increases in revenues of 19% and 21%, respectively, relative to increases in operating expenses of 38% and 34%, respectively, primarily due to increased allocation of patent expenses in connection with the corporate reorganization and increased research and development expenses. QWI Segment. The decreases in QWI revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 of $4 million and $10 million, respectively, were primarily due to decreases of $14 million in each period in QIS revenues, partially offset by increases of $8 million and $3 million, respectively, in Omnitracs revenues. The increases in QWI EBT in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 of $10 million and $5 million, respectively, were primarily attributable to a $16 million goodwill impairment charge related to our QRS division recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, partially offset by decreases in revenues in fiscal 2013. QSI Segment. QSI operating expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 included an $81 million charge related to the payment made to the Indian government concurrent with the issuance of the BWA spectrum license. The remaining increases in QSI EBT in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 of $51 million and $68 million, respectively, were primarily due to decreases in interest expense of $20 million and $39 million, respectively, as a result of capitalizing interest starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 related to the BWA network in India and increases of $23 million and $20 million, respectively, in net realized gains on investments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $30.5 billion at March 31, 2013 , an increase of $3.7 billion from September 30, 2012 . This increase included $747 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our equity compensation plans. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 31, 2013 consisted of $11.2 billion held domestically and $19.3 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. Of the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries at March 31, 2013 , $18.8 billion was held in jurisdictions where our undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested and would be subject to material tax effects if repatriated. Total cash provided by operating activities increased to $4.2 billion during the first six months of fiscal 2013 , compared to $3.7 billion during the first six months of fiscal 2012 . During the first six months of fiscal 2013 , we repurchased and retired 4,295,000 shares of our common stock for $ 250 million , before commissions. On March 5, 2013 , the Company announced that it had been authorized to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of the Companys common stock. The $5.0 billion stock repurchase program replaced a $4.0 billion stock repurchase program, of which $2.5 billion remained authorized for repurchase. At March 31, 2013 , $5.0 billion remained available for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. We continue to evaluate repurchases as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to our periodic determinations that repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders. We paid cash dividends totaling $431 million, or $0.25 per share, on March 27, 2013. On March 5, 2013 , we announced a 40% increase in our quarterly cash dividend per share of common stock from $0.25 to $0.35 , which is effective for dividends payable after March 27, 2013 . On April 9, 2013 , we announced a cash dividend of $0.35 per share on our common stock, payable on June 26, 2013 to stockholders of record as of June 5, 2013 . We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. 28 Accounts receivable increased 15% during the second quarter of fiscal 2013 . Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 28 days at March 31, 2013 , compared to 25 days at December 30, 2012 . The increases in accounts receivable and the related days sales outstanding was primarily due to the effects of timing of shipments and customer payments for receivables related to integrated circuits. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and our expected cash flow generated from operations will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans. Our research and development expenditures were $2.3 billion during the first six months of fiscal 2013 and $3.9 billion in fiscal 2012 , and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for voice and data communications, primarily in the wireless industry. Cash outflows for capital expenditures were $494 million during the first six months of fiscal 2013 and $1.3 billion in fiscal 2012, respectively, including approximately $480 million in fiscal 2012 related to the construction of a new manufacturing facility in Taiwan for our QMT division. We expect to continue to incur capital expenditures in the future to support our businesses, including research and development activities. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted. Our purchase obligations for the remainder of fiscal 2013 and for fiscal 2014, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $3.4 billion and $447 million , respectively, at March 31, 2013 . We expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions, the amounts of which could vary significantly, to open new opportunities for our technologies, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new business. At March 31, 2013 , we had loan and debenture liabilities in the aggregate of $1.1 billion , which were classified as held for sale, related to the BWA spectrum won in India that are denominated in Indian rupees. At March 31, 2013 , loans in the aggregate of $455 million are due and payable in full on May 31, 2014 , one loan in the amount of $76 million is due and payable on December 1, 2014 , and $530 million in debentures, including accrued interest, are due and payable in full on June 25, 2017 . Each holder has the right to demand redemption of its portion of the debentures outstanding on June 25, 2013 subject to sufficient prior written notice. The loans bear interest at rates that are reset quarterly ( 9.75% at March 31, 2013 ); interest payments are due monthly. The debentures bear interest at an agreed-upon annual rate, which is compounded annually and reset semi-annually beginning on June 25, 2013 ( 10.25% at March 31, 2013 ) with interest due upon redemption. Contractual Obligations/Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2013 included an aggregate of $455 million and $76 million in loans and $530 million in debentures that are denominated in Indian rupees and payable in full on May 31, 2014 , December 1, 2014 and June 25, 2017 , respectively. The debentures can be redeemed by us without penalty on certain dates. Additionally, each holder has the right to demand redemption of its portion of the debentures outstanding on June 25, 2013 subject to sufficient prior written notice. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii). Additional information regarding our financial commitments at March 31, 2013 is provided in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4 Income Taxes and Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Quarterly Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 , including our financial statements and the related notes. 29 Risks Related to Our Businesses Our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of CDMA, OFDMA and other communications technologies and our customers and licensees sales of communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. We develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on CDMA, OFDMA and other communications technologies. Our revenues are dependent upon the commercial deployment of these technologies and our customers and licensees sales of wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. Our business may be harmed, and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators delay 3G and/or 3G/4G multimode deployments, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2G customers to 3G, 3G/4G multimode or 4G wireless devices; LTE, an OFDMA-based 4G wireless standard, is not more widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay the reallocation of 2G spectrum to allow wireless operators to upgrade to 3G, thereby restricting the expansion of 3G wireless connectivity, primarily outside of major population areas; wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3G network performance and/or capacity; or wireless operators and other industries using these technologies deploy other technologies. Our business is dependent on our ability to increase our share of components sold and to continue to drive the adoption of our products and services into 3G, 3G/4G multimode and 4G wireless devices and networks. We are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees, operators of CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless networks and other industries using our technologies, as well as the timing of their deployment of new products and services, and they may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on these technologies than on products using alternative technologies. If commercial deployment, expansions or upgrades of these technologies or upgrades of 2G subscribers to 3G, 3G/4G multimode or 4G wireless communications equipment, products or services based on these technologies do not continue or are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer. Our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and those of our licensees and/or result in new specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. Technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. Our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and the revenues generated or the timing of their deployment, which may be dependent on the actions of others, may not meet our expectations. Competition in the communications industry is affected by various factors that include, among others: evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission for voice and data communications; networking; value-added features that drive replacement rates and selling prices; turnkey, integrated product offerings that incorporate hardware, software, user interface and applications; and scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: increase and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products and drive their adoption into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets and other mobile computing devices, and into a new generation of products for consumer electronics and connectivity, including gaming, wireless charging, eHealth and the connected home; strengthen our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and develop channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions requiring turnkey product offerings for low-end smartphones; be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing products that support Android, Windows Phone/RT and other operating system platforms to the partners that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; 30 continue to be a leader in 4G technology evolution, including expansion of our OFDMA-based single mode licensing program, and continue our timely introduction of 4G turnkey, integrated products and services; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (HLOS) providers, operators and other industry participants as new market entrants and other factors affect the industry landscape; become a leading supplier of small cell technology (which allows inexpensive cell sites deployed by users to connect to traditional cellular networks through wired internet connections) to enable significant network capacity expansion to meet anticipated growth in mobile data traffic; develop brand recognition as we compete against better known companies in mobile computing and other consumer driven arenas; focus our service businesses on key opportunities, such as wireless charging, eHealth and machine-to-machine technologies (allowing both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices) that create standalone value and/or contribute to the success of our other businesses; and succeed in significant foreign regions, such as China, India and Europe. Companies that promote standards that are neither CDMA- nor OFDMA-based (e.g., GSM) and companies that design integrated circuits based on CDMA, OFDMA or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. Examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include Broadcom, CSR plc, Ericsson, Freescale, HiSilicon Technologies, Intel, Lantiq, Marvell Technology, MediaTek, nVidia, Renesas Electronics, Samsung, Spreadtrum Communications, Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. Many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; foreign government support of other technologies; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in emerging geographic regions (e.g., China); and/or a more established presence in certain device markets. Certain of our software and our suppliers software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a products source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. Licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. For example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. Developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. Also, our use and our customers use of open source software may subject our products and our customers products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors products. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employed adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. Competition may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. Total royalties payable to us will generally decrease as a result of reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes. We anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. If revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuate, our operating results could be negatively affected. Our QCT segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers, and we may be unable to further diversify our customer base. In addition, our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience an increasing concentration of device share among a few companies, and this trend may result in an increasing portion of our revenues being derived from a small number of customers. Further, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including 31 but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products, could impact our business. The loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers, or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant purchases from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay or cancellation and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results. Further, concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in volume, could have an adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers new or next generation product introductions, over which we have little or no control, and the timing of such introductions may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Accordingly, unless and until our QCT segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will largely depend upon and be impacted by future purchases and the timing and size of any such future purchases by these customers. Further, companies that provide HLOS for devices, including large companies, such as Microsoft and Google, have entered the device market. If we fail to effectively partner with these companies, or their partners or their customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. Although we have more than 230 CDMA-based licensees, our QTL segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. Our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. We have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the average selling price of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have an adverse effect on our revenues. Our licensing revenues can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on CDMA, OFDMA and their derivatives, by the need to extend certain existing license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional later patents or by the success of our licensing programs for 4G single mode products and in emerging, machine-to-machine (M2M) services markets. Although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to GSM, GPRS, EDGE, OFDM, OFDMA, WLAN, Multiple Input, Multiple Output (MIMO) and other technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing revenues as our CDMA licensing program. Many wireless operators are investigating or have selected LTE (or to a lesser extent WiMAX) as their next-generation 4G technologies for deployment in existing or future wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing CDMA-based networks. While 3G/4G multimode products are generally covered by existing 3G licensing agreements, products that implement 4G and do not implement 3G are generally not covered by existing 3G licensing agreements. Although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the LTE and WiMAX industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to more than 50 companies (including LG, Nokia, Samsung, Sony Mobile and ZTE) to make and sell products implementing 4G standards but not implementing 3G standards, the royalty rates for single mode 4G products are generally lower than our royalty rates for 3G and 3G/4G multimode products, and therefore, we might not achieve the same licensing revenues on such LTE or WiMAX products as on 3G-based or 3G/4G-based multimode products. In addition, new connectivity services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in gaming and the connected home. Standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature may impact our ability to obtain royalties that are equivalent to those that we receive for 3G products used in cellular communications. Although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, the royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. The licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. As a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us and/or royalties are not owed to us under such license agreements after the specified time period. In order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We might not be able to modify those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may impact our revenues. If we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. 32 Efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) or other industry organizations that harm our business. A small number of companies have initiated various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. These strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, and/or patent and/or license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations, and (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holders ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. Some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by SDOs and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. They have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. Others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). A number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain SDOs concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our and/or other companies alleged failure to abide by these policies. There is a risk that relevant courts or governmental agencies will interpret some or all of those proposals in a manner adverse to our interests or that some SDOs may adopt such proposals as so-called clarifications or amendments to their intellectual property policies. If such proposals and strategies continue and are successful in the future, our business model would be harmed, either by artificially limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standards essential patents, or forcing us to work outside of the SDOs or such other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. As well, the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. We assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. Other companies or entities have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of one or more of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. Such adverse decisions, depending upon their extent, could negatively impact our revenues. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. Policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. Some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents generally, or standards essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent 33 systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. In the United States, the remaining provisions of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act changing patent laws governing, among other things, the granting and enforcement of patents, went into effect in March 2013. Many observers anticipate that in the next few years the European Union will adopt a unitary patent system that may broadly impact that regions patent regime. We cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of these changes or proposed changes. In addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. We may have difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction due to, among others: challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the United States; and challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. We may need to litigate in the United States or elsewhere in the world to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. These claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. We may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products were found to infringe on another companys intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. In any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. We are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. Reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect upon our operating results. We expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the U.S. International Trade Commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. We may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and on the sale of our customers devices using such products). Any imposition of royalty payments might make purchases of our products less economical for our customers. A negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. A number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various CDMA standards, GSM standards and OFDMA standards or implementations of systems based on such standards. If we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more of such other patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our products and technologies, average sales prices of and demand for our licensees products and our results of operations. 34 We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for our procurement, manufacture and testing of product inventories. If we fail to execute supply strategies that provide competitive advantage in terms of supply assurance, technology leadership and cost, our operating results and our business may be harmed. Our QCT segment purchases raw materials, component parts, subassemblies and specialized manufacturing equipment from third-party suppliers and contracts with separate suppliers for the manufacture of product inventories, including probe, assembly, test and other services. A reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply source, a failure by our suppliers to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products or their inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, our business and/or our profitability. The loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues, business operations and ability to compete for future business. In the event of a loss of or a decision to change a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could cause us to incur additional expense and production delays, resulting in possible loss of customers. While we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. To the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources in supporting, and incur higher costs to maintain, such alternate suppliers. Our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. The ability of our suppliers to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing performance of our competition, could also impact our ability to meet customer demand, increase our operating expenses and subject us to the risk of excess inventories. Our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional operating expenses that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business, our revenues and our results of operations. Although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. To the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. Accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. As an example, we experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers related to 28 nanometer integrated circuits, resulting in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand during fiscal 2012 and the first quarter of fiscal 2013. To the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments. One or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture CDMA- or OFDMA-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. In this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. In addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. We cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. Global economic conditions that impact the communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and our customers products, which may negatively affect our revenues. A decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high customer concentrations, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. Any prolonged economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. In addition, our direct and indirect customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancellation or delay of orders for our products. Our stock price and earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. 35 Both the market price of our common stock and our earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future as well. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include, among others: volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular that is often unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company; announcements concerning us, our competitors or our customers, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems, the use of our or our competitors semiconductor components in wireless devices by certain manufacturers or the business performance of our customers; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; earnings (or forecasts) that fail to meet financial guidance that we provided to investors or the expectations of investment analysts or investors; proprietary rights, product or patent litigation taken or threatened against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling price of our licensees products and our products; unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; declines in the value or performance of our significant marketable securities portfolio, which is subject to financial market volatility and liquidity, interest rate, credit and other risks; or inquiries, rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures, practices or compliance programs. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert managements attention and resources. We may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make strategic investments that could adversely affect our financial results or fail to enhance stockholder value. We engage in acquisitions and strategic transactions and make strategic investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We acquire businesses and other assets, including wireless spectrum, patents and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that are generally private and early-stage. Our strategic activities are focused on expanding the wireless industry and promoting the global adoption of CDMA, OFDMA or other technologies and related services to enhance our stockholder value. Many of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. Our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. In addition, we may record impairment charges related to our strategic investments or other strategic assets, such as wireless spectrum and other intangible assets. Any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic investments or other transactions will have a negative impact on our financial results, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. Achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, business systems and technology; retaining customers and suppliers of the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. We may not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products and 36 intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain or become subject to litigation. Additionally, we may not be successful in expanding into geographic regions and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to an acquired business and in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. Due to our inexperience with products of and/or geographic regions served by acquired businesses, we may overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve them. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. Our QMT divisions business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its operating results may not meet our expectations. While we continue to believe our QMT divisions next generation IMOD display technology will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, other technologies may continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate. Sales of flat panel displays are currently dominated, and we believe will likely continue to be dominated for some time, by displays based on liquid crystal display (LCD) technology. Numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, LCDs. Additionally, at least one company has commercialized, and several other companies are developing, another flat panel display technology called organic light-emitting diode (OLED), which is competitive with high end LCD technology. In each case, advances in LCD or other flat panel display technologies, such as OLED, could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our IMOD technology. These advances in competing technologies might cause device manufacturers or display suppliers to avoid entering into or continuing licensing and/or commercial relationships with us. During fiscal 2012, we updated the business plan and related internal forecasts for our QMT division to reflect a focus on licensing our next generation IMOD display technology while directly commercializing only certain IMOD products. We may not evolve our QMT division into a successful licensing business or IMOD product supplier if we are unable to develop our IMOD display technology to meet market demands or to cost-effectively manufacture and commercialize our IMOD products, among other factors. In addition, we have limited experience commercializing IMOD products, and we may be unsuccessful in selling such products. Our QMT division had $1.1 billion in assets (including $136 million in goodwill) at March 31, 2013 . If we do not expect to achieve or do not achieve the cash flows anticipated in QMTs business plan, our assets may become impaired, negatively impacting our operating results, and we may not meet future earnings projections related to this business. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the U.S. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. Our international customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. Consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% during the first six months of fiscal 2013 and in each of the last three fiscal years. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others: Our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the United States may become less price-competitive; Certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; Foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; We may need additional cash to settle our loan and debenture obligations, and the related interest, that are denominated in Indian rupees; The U.S. dollar value of our marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies may decline; and 37 Labor and the cost of goods in currencies other than the U.S. dollar may increase, resulting in higher than expected costs. Failures in our products and services or in the products of our customers, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. The use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. While we continue to expand our focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve in a 3G/4G environment, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. Further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. For example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. The design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. Manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. Because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our components, materials or software or in our customers products could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of their products. Such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships and other financial liability or harm to our business. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. While we have identified several incidents of unauthorized access, none have caused material damage to our business. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers or licensees confidential information, we may incur liability. We expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. In such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we established our QCT segments non-United States headquarters in Singapore. We obtained tax incentives in Singapore, including a tax exemption for the first five years provided that we meet specified employment and incentive criteria in Singapore. Our Singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027 as a result of expiration of these incentives. If we do not meet the criteria required to benefit from such incentives, our Singapore tax rate could increase prior to those dates, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States based on current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. No provision has been made for United States federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. Our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the United States international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. If wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers and licensees may decrease. 38 Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions continue. Interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with, among other things, airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. Legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns or adverse news or findings about safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the United States as well as in foreign countries. We are subject to government regulations. Our business may suffer as a result of changes in laws or regulations, our failure or inability to comply with laws or regulations or adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings. Our products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. The adoption of new laws or regulations or changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body, including, among others, those affecting the use of our technology or products, trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection, loans and employment, could have an adverse effect on our business. National, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. These laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products. Our costs could also increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. It may also be difficult to comply with laws and regulations in a timely manner, and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. One of our subsidiaries in India holds broadband wireless access (BWA) spectrum that will be used to operate a wireless network. Bharti Airtel Limited (Bharti), an Indian wireless network operator, holds a 49% interest in this and other subsidiaries formed to operate the wireless network (the BWA subsidiaries). Our license to use the BWA spectrum is subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met by May 2017. If we do not meet these requirements, the Government of Indias Department of Telecommunications could impose a fine or could rescind the license in the area(s) in which the build-out requirements are not met. There are also other contingencies, including unexpected regulatory delays or conditions, which could adversely impact our ability to successfully and timely exit the BWA subsidiaries as anticipated. The SEC has recently adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. These new rules and verification requirements, which will apply to our activities in calendar 2013, will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, business conduct, public disclosure and health care are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. Laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. As a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. New laws, regulations and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. The market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. Further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the United States, making the pool of available talent even smaller. We continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed.