Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, should be read in conjunction with (1) our condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited) and the related notes included elsewhere in this report, and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 27, 2019. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, it is possible to identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipates, believes, contemplates, continue, could, estimates, expects, future, intends, likely, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, seek, should, target, or will, or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements about: our financial performance, including our revenues, costs, expenditures, growth rates, operating expenses and ability to generate positive cash flow to fund our operations and sustain profitability; anticipated technology trends, such as the use of cloud solutions; our ability to adapt to changing market conditions; economic and financial conditions, including volatility in foreign exchange rates; our ability to diversify our sources of revenues, including selling additional solutions to our existing customers and our ability to pursue new customers; the effects of increased competition in our market; our ability to innovate and enhance our cloud solutions and platform and introduce new solutions; our ability to effectively manage our growth; our anticipated investments in sales and marketing, our infrastructure, new solutions, and research and development, and acquisitions; maintaining and expanding our relationships with channel partners; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel, including sales and marketing personnel; our ability to successfully enter new markets and manage our international expansion; our expectations, assumptions and conclusions related to our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and our effective tax rate; and other factors discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in the sections titled Risk Factors and Management ' s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results, events and circumstances reflected in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors including those described in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements used herein. We cannot provide assurance that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. 30 Table of Contents Overview We are a pioneer and leading provider of a cloud-based platform delivering security and compliance solutions that enable organizations to identify security risks to their information technology (IT) infrastructures, help protect their IT systems and a pplications from ever-evolving cyber-attacks and achieve compliance with internal policies and external regulations. Our cloud solutions address the growing security and compliance complexities and risks that are amplified by the dissolving boundaries between internal and external IT infrastructures and web environments, the rapid adoption of cloud computing, containers and serverless IT models, and the proliferation of geographically dispersed IT assets. Our integrated suite of security and compliance solutions delivered on our Qualys Cloud Platform enables our customers to identify and manage their IT assets, collect and analyze large amounts of IT security data, discover and prioritize vulnerabilities, recommend remediation actions and verify the implementati on of such actions. Organizations use our integrated suite of solutions delivered on our Qualys Cloud Platform to cost-effectively obtain a unified view of their IT asset inventory as well as security and compliance posture across globally-distributed IT infrastructures as our solution offers a single platform for information technology, information security, application security, endpoint, developer security and cloud teams. We were founded and incorporated in December 1999 with a vision of transforming the way organizations secure and protect their IT infrastructure and applications and initially launched our first cloud solution, Vulnerability Management (VM), in 2000. As VM gained acceptance, we introduced additional solutions to help customers manage increasing IT security and compliance requirements. Today, the suite of solutions that we offer on our cloud platform and refer to as the Qualys Cloud Apps helps our customers protect a range of on-premise assets, endpoints and cloud environments. These solutions and their Cloud Apps address and include : IT Security: Vulnerability Management (VM), Threat Protection (TP), Continuous Monitoring (CM), Patch Management (PM), Indication of Compromise (IOC); Compliance Monitoring: Policy Compliance (PC), PCI Compliance (PCI), File Integrity Monitoring (FIM), Security Configuration Assessment (SCA), Security Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Out of-Band Configuration Assessment (OCA); Web Application Security: Web Application Scanning (WAS), Web Application Firewall (WAF); Global IT Asset Management: Asset Inventory (AI), CMDB Sync (SYN), Certificate Inventory (CRI); and, Cloud/Container Security: Cloud Inventory (CI), Cloud Security Assessment (CSA), Container Security (CS). Our VM solutions (including VM, CM, TP, Cloud Agent for VM , allocated scanner revenue and Qualys Private Cloud Platform) have provided a substantial majority of our revenues to date, representing 73% of our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . We provide our solutions through a software-as-a-service model, primarily with renewable annual subscriptions. These subscriptions require customers to pay a fee in order to access each of our cloud solutions. We generally invoice our customers for the entire subscription amount at the start of the subscription term, and the invoiced amounts are treated as deferred revenues and are recognized ratably over the term of each subscription. We continue to experience significant revenue growth from our existing customers as they renew and purchase additional subscriptions . We market and sell our solutions to enterprises, government entities and small and medium-sized businesses across a broad range of industries, including education, financial services, government, healthcare, insurance, manufacturing, media, retail, technology and utilities. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the corresponding period of 2018, approximately 65% and 68%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from customers in the United States. We sell our solutions to enterprises and government entities primarily through our field sales force and to small and medium-sized businesses through our inside sales force. We generate a significant portion of sales through our channel partners, including managed service providers, value-added resellers and consulting firms in the United States and internationally. 31 Table of Contents Our revenues increased to $75.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $64.9 million for the corresponding period in 2018 , representing an increase of $10.5 million or 16% . Key Metric In addition to measures of financial performance presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we monitor the key metric set forth below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational efficiencies. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands, except percentages) Adjusted EBITDA $ 30,625 $ 24,618 Percentage of revenues 41 % 38 % Adjusted EBITDA We monitor Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to analyze our financial results and believe that it is useful to investors, as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance and enhancing an overall understanding of our past financial performance. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA helps illustrate underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the income or expenses that we exclude in Adjusted EBITDA. Furthermore, we use this measure to establish budgets and operational goals for managing our business and evaluating our performance. We also believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our recurring core business operating results over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Qualys defines Adjusted EBITDA as earnings before interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, interest income and other income (expense), net, non-recurring expenses, and acquisition-related expenses that do not reflect ongoing costs of operating the business. 32 Table of Contents The following unaudited table presents the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net income $ 13,266 $ 9,142 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment 6,415 6,410 Amortization of intangible assets 1,520 633 Interest expense 42 38 Provision for income taxes 2,571 509 EBITDA 23,814 16,732 Stock-based compensation 8,445 8,891 Interest income and Other income (expense), net (1,828 ) (1,283 ) Acquisition-related expense(1) 194 278 Adjusted EBITDA $ 30,625 $ 24,618 (1) Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2019 includes $0.3 million and $1.3 million of compensation related to acquisitions in 2019 and 2018, respectively, offset by $1.4 million of reversals of previous obligations. Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2018 includes $0.3 million of compensation related to acquisitions in 2017. Limitations of Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain cash and non-cash charges that are recurring; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect income tax payments that reduce cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently or not at all, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should be considered alongside other financial performance measures, including revenues, net income, cash flows from operating activities and our financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenues We derive revenues from the sale of subscriptions to our security and compliance solutions, which are delivered on our cloud platform. Subscriptions to our solutions allow customers to access our cloud-based security and compliance solutions through a unified, web-based interface. Customers generally enter into one-year renewable subscriptions. The subscription fee entitles the customer to an unlimited number of scans for a specified number of devices or web applications and, if requested by a customer as part of their subscription, a specified number of physical or virtual scanner appliances. Our physical and virtual scanner appliances are requested by certain customers as part of their subscriptions in order to scan IT infrastructures within their firewalls and do not function without, and are not sold separately from, subscriptions for our solutions. In some limited cases, we also provide certain computer equipment used to extend our Qualys cloud platform into our customers private cloud environment. Customers are required to return physical scanner appliances and computer equipment if they do not renew their subscript ions. 33 Table of Contents We typically invoice our customers for the entire subscription amount at the start of the subscription term. Invoiced amounts are reflected on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as accounts receivable or as cash when collected, and as deferred revenues until earned and recognized ratably over the subscription period. Accordingly, deferred revenues represent the amount billed to customers that has not yet been earned or recognized as revenues, pursuant to subscriptions entered into in current and prior periods. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, amortization of internal-use software, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for employees who operate our data centers and provide support services to our customers. Other expenses include depreciation of data center equipment and physical scanner appliances and computer hardware provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions, expenses related to the use of third-party data centers, amortization of third-party technology licensing fees, amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions, maintenance support, fees paid to contractors who supplement or support our operations center personnel and overhead allocations. We expect to continue to make capital investments to expand and support our data center operations, which will increase the cost of revenues in absolute dollars. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for our research and development teams. Other expenses include third-party contractor fees, amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions and overhead allocations. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We capitalize some research and development costs related to new products' internal-use software development. Capitalized costs include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation charges for employees that are directly involved in developing new products for our cloud security platform during the application development stage. Capitalized costs related to internally developed software under development are treated as construction in progress until the program, feature or functionality is ready for its intended use, at which time amortization commences. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development in an effort to continuously improve our existing solutions as well as develop new solutions and capabilities and expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, sales commissions, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation for our worldwide sales and marketing teams. Other expenses include marketing and promotional events, lead-generation marketing programs, public relations, travel, software licenses and overhead allocations. Sales commissions related to new business and upsells are capitalized as an asset. We amortize the capitalized commission cost as a selling expense on a straight-line basis over a period of five years. We expense sales commissions related to contract renewals. Our new sales personnel are typically not immediately productive, and the resulting increase in sales and marketing expenses we incur when we add new personnel may not result in increased revenues if these new sales personnel fail to become productive. The timing of our hiring of sales personnel, or the participation in new marketing events or programs, and the rate at which these generate incremental revenues, may affect our future operating results. We expect to continue to significantly invest in additional sales personnel worldwide and also in more marketing programs to support new solutions on our platform, which will increase sales and marketing expenses in absolute dollars. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for our executive, finance and accounting, legal and human resources teams, as well as professional services, insurance, fees, and software licenses. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to add personnel and incur professional services to support our growth and compliance with legal requirements. 34 Table of Contents Other Income, Net Our other income, net consists primarily of interest and investment income from our short-term and long-term investments; foreign exchange gains and losses, the majority of which result from fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, British Pound and Indian Rupee; losses on disposal of property and equipment; and impairment of long-lived assets. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to federal, state and foreign income taxes for jurisdictions in which we operate, and we use estimates in determining our provision for these income taxes and deferred tax assets. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to income taxes in the local country which are generally higher than U.S. tax rates, and may be subject to U.S. income taxes. Our provision for income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that arise during the period. Each quarter, we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual effective tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment in such period. Our estimated effective rate for the year differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to non-deductible stock-based compensation expense, state taxes, foreign income subject to different tax rates than the U.S., and the benefit of U.S. federal income tax credits. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the tax impact of timing differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using statutory tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period when the statutory rate change is enacted into law. We assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realized, and we recognize a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be recognized. This assessment requires judgment as to the likelihood and amounts of future taxable income. 35 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data: Revenues $ 75,343 $ 64,878 Cost of revenues (1) 17,709 15,901 Gross profit 57,634 48,977 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 15,837 12,553 Sales and marketing (1) 17,315 16,233 General and administrative (1) 10,431 11,785 Total operating expenses 43,583 40,571 Income from operations 14,051 8,406 Other income, net 1,786 1,245 Income before income taxes 15,837 9,651 Provision for income taxes 2,571 509 Net income $ 13,266 $ 9,142 (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 545 $ 654 Research and development 2,340 1,841 Sales and marketing 1,068 1,401 General and administrative 4,492 4,995 Total stock-based compensation $ 8,445 $ 8,891 36 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Revenues 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues 24 25 Gross profit 76 75 Operating expenses: Research and development 21 19 Sales and marketing 22 25 General and administrative 14 18 Total operating expenses 57 62 Income from operations 19 13 Other income, net 2 2 Income before income taxes 21 15 Provision for income taxes 3 1 Net income 18 % 14 % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 75,343 $ 64,878 $ 10,465 16 % Revenues increased $10.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , due to an increase in the purchase of subscriptions from existing customers and new customer subscriptions entered into after March 31, 2018 . Of the total increase of $10.5 million , $4.3 million was from customers in the United States and the remaining $6.2 million was from customers in foreign countries. We expect revenue growth from existing and new customers to continue. The growth in revenues reflects the continued demand for our solutions. 37 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues $ 17,709 $ 15,901 $ 1,808 11 % Cost of revenues increased $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily a result of an increase of $0.9 million in amortization expense related to acquired technology resulting from our business acquisitions; increased third-party software license and maintenance expenses of $0.5 million resulting from our continued business growth; a $0.4 million increase in depreciation expense related to additional computer hardware and software; and increased data center and supply costs of $0.3 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in personnel expenses of $0.3 million, driven by lower compensation costs in international locations. Research and Development Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 15,837 $ 12,553 $ 3,284 26 % Research and development expenses increased $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to an increase in personnel expenses of $2.6 million, driven by additional employees hired to support the growth of our business; an increase of acquisition-related expense of $1.6 million offset by reversals of previous acquisition related obligations of $1.4 million; increased allocation of overhead costs to the research and development department of $0.5 million related to the headcount increases; increased data center, third-party software license and consulting expenses of $0.1 million resulting from our continued business growth and increased depreciation expense of $0.1 million related to additional fixed assets placed into service. These increases were partially offset by $0.2 million of capitalization of internally developed software costs. 38 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 17,315 $ 16,233 $ 1,082 7 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to an increase in trade show expense of $1.3 million; and an increase in personnel expenses of $0.7 million, driven by additional employees hired to support the growth of our business. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in customer acquisition expense of $0.2 million and a decrease of $0.8 million of allocated overhead costs due to a lower proportion of sales and marketing employees in the employee base . General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 10,431 $ 11,785 $ (1,354 ) (11 )% General and administrative expenses decreased by $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily driven by lower employee related costs of $0.6 million, decreased allocated overhead costs of $0.5 million and consulting and professional services costs of $0.3 million. Total Other Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Total other income, net $ 1,786 $ 1,245 $ 541 43 % Total other income, net increased by $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million related to the accretion of purchase discounts from marketable securities balances increasing year over year as a result of increasing interest rates, partially offset by foreign exchange losses of $0.3 million. 39 Table of Contents Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 2,571 $ 509 $ 2,062 405 % Effective Tax Rate 16.2 % 5.3 % We recorded an income tax provision of $2.6 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The increase in income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily due to an increase in pre-tax income and a decrease in the tax benefit of excess stock-based compensation deductions. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2019 , our principal source of liquidity was cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $394.5 million , including $8.8 million held outside of the United States by our foreign subsidiaries. We do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. However, if we repatriate these funds, we could be subject to foreign withholding taxes. We experienced positive cash flows from operations during each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 . We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing, type and extent of our spending on research and development efforts, international expansion and investment in data centers. We may also seek to invest in or acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Cash Flows The following summary of cash flows for the periods indicated has been derived from our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 44,347 $ 42,989 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 15,364 (38,081 ) Cash (used in) provided by financing activities (7,610 ) 1,675 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash flows from operating activities of $44.3 million primarily resulted from our net income of approximately $13.3 million , as adjusted for non-cash items including stock-based compensation of $8.4 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $7.9 million ; and cash flows from working capital of $13.5 million mainly attributable to the continued growth in our deferred revenues. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash flows from operating activities of $43.0 million primarily resulted from our net income of approximately $9.1 million, as adjusted for non-cash items including stock-based compensation of $8.9 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $7.0 million; and cash flows from working capital of $17.7 million mainly attributable to collections from our customers. 40 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash provided by investing activities of $15.4 million was attributable to purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities of $24.8 million , and $8.6 million of cash used for capital expenditures, including computer hardware and software for our data centers to support our growth and development, and to purchase physical scanner appliances and computer hardware provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions. Additionally, we paid $0.9 million in cash in connection with our acquisition of the assets of Adya. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash used in investing activities of $38.1 million was attributable to purchases of investments, net of sales and maturities of $32.1 million, and $6.0 million of cash used for capital expenditures, including computer hardware and software for our data centers to support our growth and development, and to purchase physical scanner appliances and computer hardware provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash used in financing activities of $7.6 million was attributable to share repurchases of $7.9 million , the payment of employee payroll taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards of $3.4 million , and principal payments under finance lease obligations of $0.4 million . These decreases were offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $4.0 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by financing activities of $1.7 million was attributable to $7.9 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, offset by the payment of employee payroll taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards of $4.0 million, share repurchases of $1.5 million and principal payments under finance lease obligations of $0.7 million. 41 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our outstanding leases for office space, third-party data centers, office equipment and finance leases. The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations, including future interest payments, at March 31, 2019 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2019 (remaining nine months) 2020-2021 2022-2023 2024 and thereafter (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 48,683 $ 6,601 $ 13,943 $ 8,840 $ 19,299 Finance lease obligations 1,512 1,328 184 Purchase order obligations 15,246 13,169 2,077 Total $ 65,441 $ 21,098 $ 16,204 $ 8,840 $ 19,299 On October 14, 2016, we entered into a lease agreement (included in the table above) for our new headquarters office facility. The lease payments commenced on May 1, 2018 and the lease has a ten-year term through April 2028. The total commitment of $38.6 million is payable monthly with escalating rental payments throughout the lease term. In connection with this lease, we provided the landlord with a $1.2 million standby letter of credit to secure our obligations through the end of the lease term, which was classified as restricted cash in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining commitment on this lease was $35.5 million. Operating lease obligations represent our obligations to make payments under the lease agreements for our facilities, data centers, and office equipment leases. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we made regular payments on our operating lease obligations of $1.3 million. Finance lease obligations represent financing on data center storage equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we made regular principal payments on our finance lease obligations of $0.4 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have, nor do we currently have, any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 42 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 , filed with the SEC on February 27, 2019, the accounting policies related to revenue recognition, leases, derivative instruments, income taxes and stock-based compensation involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. A critical accounting policy is one that is material to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and requires us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments for uncertain matters that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Apart from the adoption of ASC 842 - Leases as of January 1, 2019 as described in Part 1, Item 1, Note 7 Leases of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 , filed with the SEC on February 27, 2019. 43 Table of Contents