Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, should be read in conjunction with (1) our condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited) and the related notes included elsewhere in this report, and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 26, 2016. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, it is possible to identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipates, believes, contemplates, continue, could, estimates, expects, future, intends, likely, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, seek, should, target, or will, or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements about: our financial performance, including our revenues, costs, expenditures, growth rates, operating expenses and ability to generate positive cash flow to fund our operations and sustain profitability; anticipated technology trends, such as the use of cloud solutions; our ability to adapt to changing market conditions; economic and financial conditions, including volatility in foreign exchange rates; our ability to diversify our sources of revenues, including selling additional solutions to our existing customers and our ability to pursue new customers; the effects of increased competition in our market; our ability to innovate and enhance our cloud solutions and platform and introduce new solutions; our ability to effectively manage our growth; our anticipated investments in sales and marketing, our infrastructure, new solutions, and research and development, and acquisitions; maintaining and expanding our relationships with channel partners; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel, including sales and marketing personnel; our ability to successfully enter new markets and manage our international expansion; our expectations, assumptions and conclusions related to our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and our effective tax rate; and other factors discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in the sections titled Risk Factors and Management ' s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results, events and circumstances reflected in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors including those described in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements used herein. We cannot provide assurance that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. 21 Table of Contents Overview We are a pioneer and leading provider of cloud-based security and compliance solutions that enable organizations to identify security risks to their IT infrastructures, help protect their IT systems and applications from ever-evolving cyber-attacks and achieve compliance with internal policies and external regulations. Our cloud solutions address the growing security and compliance complexities and risks that are amplified by the dissolving boundaries between internal and external IT infrastructures and web environments, the rapid adoption of cloud computing and the proliferation of geographically dispersed IT assets. Our integrated suite of security and compliance solutions delivered on our Qualys Cloud Platform enables our customers to identify their IT assets, collect and analyze large amounts of IT security data, discover and prioritize vulnerabilities, recommend remediation actions and verify the implementation of such actions. Organizations use our integrated suite of solutions delivered on our Qualys Cloud Platform to cost-effectively obtain a unified view of their security and compliance posture across globally-distributed IT infrastructures. We were founded and incorporated in December 1999 with a vision of transforming the way organizations secure and protect their IT infrastructure and applications and initially launched our first cloud solution, Qualys Vulnerability Management (VM), in 2000. As this solution gained acceptance, we introduced new solutions to help customers manage increasing IT security and compliance requirements, including PCI Compliance, Policy Compliance, Web Application Scanning, Malware Detection Service and Qualys SECURE Seal. In 2012, we introduced our virtualized private cloud platform as an additional deployment option of our solutions for customers and partners. In 2014, we released Continuous Monitoring (CM) for internet-facing systems, which allows customers to continuously monitor their mission-critical assets and to be alerted to security vulnerabilities or misconfigurations that may make them more susceptible to a cyber-attack and in 2015, we introduced our Cloud Agent Platform (CAP), which provides customers with the ability to secure IT assets on a continuous basis regardless of where they reside, inside the enterprise, in the cloud or mobile endpoints. Additional offerings, such as CM and CAP, add functionality to our core VM and POL services and expand the scope of our capabilities. We expect the sales of multiple, fully-integrated cloud based security offerings on our platform will contribute to the continuing trend of revenue growth. We provide our solutions through a software-as-a-service model, primarily with renewable annual subscriptions. These subscriptions require customers to pay a fee in order to access our cloud solutions. We typically invoice our customers for the entire subscription amount at the start of the subscription term, and the invoiced amounts are treated as deferred revenues and are recognized ratably over the term of each subscription. We continue to experience significant revenue growth from existing customers as they renew and purchase additional subscriptions. We market and sell our solutions to enterprises, government entities and to small and medium-sized businesses across a broad range of industries, including education, financial services, government, healthcare, insurance, manufacturing, media, retail, technology and utilities. In the three month period ended March 31, 2016 , approximately 71% of our revenues were derived from customers in the United States. We sell our solutions to enterprises and government entities primarily through our field sales force and to small and medium-sized businesses through our inside sales force. We generate a significant portion of sales through our channel partners, including managed service providers, value-added resellers and consulting firms in the United States and internationally. Our revenues increased to $46.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $37.5 million for the comparable period in 2015 , representing an increase of $8.8 million or 23% . 22 Table of Contents Key Metrics In addition to measures of financial performance presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we monitor the key metrics set forth below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational efficiencies. Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands, except percentages) Adjusted EBITDA $ 16,128 $ 11,977 Percentage of revenues 35 % 32 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Free cash flow $ 12,839 $ 3,779 Adjusted EBITDA We monitor Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to analyze our financial results and believe that it is useful to investors, as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance and enhancing an overall understanding of our past financial performance. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA helps illustrate underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the income or expenses that we exclude in Adjusted EBITDA. Furthermore, we use this measure to establish budgets and operational goals for managing our business and evaluating our performance. We also believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our recurring core business operating results over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income before (1) other (income) expense, net, which includes interest income, interest expense and other income and expense, (2) provision for income taxes, (3) depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, (4) amortization of intangible assets and (5) stock-based compensation. 23 Table of Contents The following unaudited table presents the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net income $ 4,783 $ 3,002 Other (income) expense, net (168 ) 77 Provision for income taxes 2,982 1,841 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment 3,724 3,084 Amortization of intangible assets 110 98 Stock-based compensation 4,697 3,875 Adjusted EBITDA $ 16,128 $ 11,977 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalization of software development costs. We monitor free cash flow as a liquidity measure because we believe it provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash we generated, that, after the acquisition of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs, can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business, making strategic acquisitions and strengthening the balance sheet. We also believe free cash flow provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our recurring core business operating results over multiple periods. A limitation of using free cash flow as a means for evaluating liquidity is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the period because it excludes cash provided by or used in other investing and financing activities. In addition, it is important to note that other companies, including companies in our industry, may not use free cash flow, may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do, or may use other financial measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a comparative measure. A reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, is provided below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 17,138 $ 10,026 Less: Purchases of property and equipment (4,181 ) (6,148 ) Capitalized software development costs (118 ) (99 ) Free cash flow $ 12,839 $ 3,779 Limitations of Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measures, have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain cash and non-cash charges that are recurring; 24 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect income tax payments that reduce cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; Free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash and cash equivalents for the period; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow differently or not at all, which reduces their usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow should be considered alongside other financial performance measures, including revenues, net income, cash flows from operating activities and our financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenues We derive revenues from the sale of subscriptions to our security and compliance solutions, which are delivered on our cloud platform. Subscriptions to our solutions allow customers to access our cloud-based security and compliance solutions through a unified, web-based interface. Customers generally enter into one year renewable subscriptions. The subscription fee entitles the customer to an unlimited number of scans for a specified number of devices or web applications and, if requested by a customer as part of their subscription, a specified number of physical or virtual scanner appliances. Our physical and virtual scanner appliances are requested by certain customers as part of their subscriptions in order to scan IT infrastructures within their firewalls and do not function without, and are not sold separately from, subscriptions for our solutions. In some limited cases, we also provide certain computer equipment used to extend our Qualys Cloud Platform into our customers private cloud environment. Customers are required to return physical scanner appliances and computer equipment if they do not renew their subscriptions. We typically invoice our customers for the entire subscription amount at the start of the subscription term. Invoiced amounts are reflected on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as accounts receivable or as cash when collected, and as deferred revenues until earned and recognized ratably over the subscription period. Accordingly, deferred revenues represents the amount billed to customers that has not yet been earned or recognized as revenues, pursuant to subscriptions entered into in current and prior periods. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for employees who operate our data centers and provide support services to our customers. Other expenses include depreciation of data center equipment and physical scanner appliances and computer hardware provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions, expenses related to the use of third-party data centers, amortization of third-party technology licensing fees and related maintenance support, fees paid to contractors who supplement or support our operations center personnel and overhead allocations. We expect to continue to make capital investments to expand and support our data center operations which will increase the cost of revenues in absolute dollars. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for our research and development teams. Other expenses include third-party contractor fees, amortization of intangibles related to prior acquisitions and overhead allocations. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development in an effort to continuously improve our existing solutions as well as develop new solutions and capabilities and expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars. 25 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, sales commissions, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation for our worldwide sales and marketing teams. Other expenses include marketing and promotional events, lead-generation marketing programs, public relations, travel and overhead allocations. All costs are expensed as incurred, including sales commissions. Sales commissions are expensed in the quarter in which the related order is received and are paid in the month subsequent to the end of that quarter, which results in increased expenses prior to the recognition of related revenues. Our new sales personnel are typically not immediately productive, and the resulting increase in sales and marketing expenses we incur when we add new personnel may not result in increased revenues if these new sales personnel fail to become productive. The timing of our hiring of sales personnel, or the participation in new marketing events or programs, and the rate at which these generate incremental revenues may affect our future operating results. We expect to continue to significantly invest in additional sales personnel worldwide and also in more marketing programs to support new solutions on our platform, which will increase sales and marketing expenses in absolute dollars. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, comprised of salaries, benefits, performance-based compensation and stock-based compensation, for our executive, finance and accounting, legal, human resources and internal information technology support teams, as well as professional services, insurance, fees, and overhead allocations. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to add personnel and incur professional services to support our growth and compliance with legal requirements. Other Income (Expense), Net Our other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest and investment income from our short-term and long-term investments; foreign exchange gains and losses, the majority of which result from fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, British Pound and Indian Rupee; and losses on disposal of property and equipment. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to federal, state and foreign income taxes for jurisdictions in which we operate, and we use estimates in determining our provision for these income taxes and deferred tax assets. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to income taxes in the local country which are generally lower than U.S. tax rates, and may be subject to U.S. income taxes. Our effective rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to foreign income subject to different tax rates than the U.S., research and development tax credits, non-deductible stock-based compensation expense and other adjustments. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the tax impact of timing differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using statutory tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period when the statutory rate change is enacted into law. We assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realized, and we recognize a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be recognized. This assessment requires judgment as to the likelihood and amounts of future taxable income. Our provision for income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 consists of income taxes for federal and certain states in the United States, as well as income taxes for profits generated in foreign jurisdictions by wholly-owned subsidiaries. The provision for income taxes also includes changes to unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data: Revenues $ 46,248 $ 37,493 Cost of revenues (1) 9,416 7,964 Gross profit 36,832 29,529 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 7,834 7,150 Sales and marketing (1) 13,933 11,443 General and administrative (1) 7,468 6,016 Total operating expenses 29,235 24,609 Income from operations 7,597 4,920 Other income (expense), net 168 (77 ) Income before income taxes 7,765 4,843 Provision for income taxes 2,982 1,841 Net income $ 4,783 $ 3,002 ____________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 379 $ 328 Research and development 1,295 1,152 Sales and marketing 1,249 811 General and administrative 1,774 1,584 Total stock-based compensation $ 4,697 $ 3,875 27 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Revenues 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues 20 21 Gross profit 80 79 Operating expenses: Research and development 17 19 Sales and marketing 30 31 General and administrative 16 16 Total operating expenses 63 66 Income from operations 16 13 Other income (expense), net 0 0 Income before income taxes 16 13 Provision for income taxes 6 5 Net income 10 % 8 % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 46,248 $ 37,493 $ 8,755 23 % Revenues increased $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , due to new customer subscriptions entered into after March 31, 2015 and from an increase in the purchase of subscriptions from existing customers. Of the total increase of $8.8 million , $6.4 million was from customers in the United States and the remaining $2.4 million was from customers in foreign countries. The growth in revenues reflects the continued demand for solutions. 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues $ 9,416 $ 7,964 $ 1,452 18 % Percentage of revenues 20 % 21 % Gross profit percentage 80 % 79 % Cost of revenues increased $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in depreciation expense related to additional computer hardware and software; increased third-party software license and maintenance expense of $0.5 million; increased data center costs of $0.2 million; and increased personnel expenses of $0.2 million to support continued growth of our business. Research and Development Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 7,834 $ 7,150 $ 684 10 % Percentage of revenues 17 % 19 % Research and development expenses increased $0.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily due to an increase in personnel expenses of $0.7 million, due to new employees and higher stock-based compensation. We continue to significantly invest in and expand our research and development teams to continuously improve our platform and existing solutions, as well as develop new solutions and capabilities. Sales and Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 13,933 $ 11,443 $ 2,490 22 % Percentage of revenues 30 % 31 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , primarily due to increased personnel expenses of $0.8 million, principally due to new employees and higher stock based compensation, and also due to an increase in marketing expenses of $1.6 million, primarily due to increased trade shows and program activities as a result of a large security trade show that occurred in the first quarter of 2016 which previously occurred in the second quarter of 2015. 29 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 7,468 $ 6,016 $ 1,452 24 % Percentage of revenues 16 % 16 % General and administrative expenses increased $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily driven by increased personnel expenses of $0.5 million, principally due to additional employees and higher stock-based compensation; and increased professional services of $0.8 million. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Other income (expense), net $ 168 $ (77 ) $ 245 NM Percentage of revenues 0 % 0 % Other income (expense), increased by $0.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in investment and interest income and lower foreign exchange losses. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2016 2015 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 2,982 $ 1,841 $ 1,141 62 % Effective Tax Rate 38.4 % 38.0 % The provision for income taxes increased by $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in income before taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2016 , our principal source of liquidity was cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments of $240.3 million , including $3.4 million held outside of the United States by our foreign subsidiaries. We do not intend to repatriate these funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. We have experienced positive cash flows from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 . We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, and cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our spending on research and development efforts, international expansion and investment in data centers. We may also seek to invest in or acquire complementary businesses or technologies. 30 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following summary of cash flows for the periods indicated has been derived from our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 17,138 $ 10,026 Cash used in investing activities (1,573 ) (12,051 ) Cash provided by financing activities 5,208 3,539 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 20,773 $ 1,514 Cash Flows from Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , cash flows from operating activities of $17.1 million resulted from our net income of approximately $4.8 million , as adjusted by an increase in deferred revenues of $2.1 million , attributable to our continued growth, an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $4.8 million and by non-cash items including depreciation and amortization expense of $3.8 million and stock-based compensation of $4.7 million . These increases are partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $0.2 million due to continued growth, excess tax benefits from stock based compensation of $3.1 million , and additions to deferred income tax assets of $1.1 million . In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , cash flows from operating activities of $10.0 million resulted from our net income of $3.0 million , as adjusted by an increase in deferred revenues of $6.8 million , attributable to our continued growth. These working capital increases are further increased by non-cash items including depreciation and amortization expense of $3.2 million and stock-based compensation expense of $3.9 million . These increases are partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $5.9 million , due to timing of orders received relatively later in the quarter, and by a decrease in accounts payable of $3.6 million due to timing of payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , cash used in investing activities of $1.6 million was primarily attributable to $4.2 million of cash used for capital expenditures, including computer hardware and software for our data centers to support our growth and development and physical scanner appliances and computer hardware provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions; and sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases, of $2.7 million . In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , cash used in investing activities of $12.1 million was primarily attributable $6.1 million of cash used for capital expenditures, including computer hardware and software for our data centers to support our growth and development and physical scanner appliances provided to certain customers as part of their subscriptions, and net purchases of investments of $5.8 million . Cash Flows from Financing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , cash provided by financing activities of $5.2 million was primarily attributable to $2.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $3.1 million of tax benefit from exercise of stock options. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , cash provided by financing activities of $3.5 million was primarily attributable to $3.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 31 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our outstanding leases for office space, third-party data centers and certain office equipment. The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations at March 31, 2016 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Remainder of 2016 2017-2018 2019-2020 2021 and thereafter (in thousands) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 9,165 $ 3,169 $ 4,078 $ 1,520 $ 398 Total $ 9,165 $ 3,169 $ 4,078 $ 1,520 $ 398 (1) Operating lease obligations represent our obligations to make payments under the lease agreements for our facilities, data centers, and office equipment leases. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , we made regular payments on our operating lease obligations of $1.1 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have, nor do we currently have, any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 , filed with the SEC on February 26, 2016, the accounting policies related to revenue recognition, income taxes and stock-based compensation involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. A critical accounting policy is one that is material to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and requires us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments for uncertain matters that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 . 32 Table of Contents