Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed Quantum Computing, Inc. (the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Quantum Computing Inc. is a full-stack quantum solutions company. Our mission is to be the democratizing force that brings quantum solutions to business, academia, government, and ultimately individual users. Our solutions enable subject matter experts (SMEs) and end users to get answers to critical business problems today, using the computing solutions that best deliver those results. Since our formation in 2018, the Company has focused on providing software tools and applications for several commercially available quantum computers and we remain committed to that goal. However, following the June 2022 merger with QPhoton, Inc. (QPhoton) and its associated intellectual property and engineering team, the Company is now able to provide full-stack quantum information services. The core of our quantum information services today is our Entropy Quantum Computing (EQC) technology. We have built room-temperature, photonic quantum information processing systems underpinned by a series of patented and patent pending technologies. We believe this will enable us to develop and produce multiple generations of quantum information processors with increasing computational power, capacity, and speed, as well as the eventual hardware miniaturization. Such systems are expected to deliver compelling performance advantages over classical computational machines and will eventually be able to solve complex problems more effectively and efficiently in terms of scalability, power consumption, and cost compared with current high-performance computing technology. Our technology, supported by professional services through our Quantum Solutions offering, helps our clients benefit from the technology today. In addition, our leading-edge photonic technology and engineering teams will enable QCI to continue to enhance quantum LIDAR and sensing systems, imaging systems, quantum-secured network solutions, and photonic quantum chips. Several of these important technologies are already in early stages of commercialization. Our short-term core business model is based on generating revenue from selling access to our advanced quantum data processing systems via the cloud, with the long-term model focused on selling desktop or rack-sized quantum devices and systems to commercial and individual users. We currently offer access to our quantum computing machines via our own in-house cloud service and plan to eventually offer access through other commercial service providers. 2 In the near term, we plan to generate revenue from our Quantum Solutions team, collaborating directly with customers to take them from problem formulation to solution. This end-to-end support empowers a spectrum of clientele, from users with little to no experience in quantum processing to advanced users capable of independent problem formulation and execution through the service. The Company already produces its own lithium niobate nanophotonic circuits and has plans to scale production to meet projected demand. The Company has announced plans to construct and operate a new state-of-the-art quantum nanophotonics technology manufacturing and research center, which we believe could be the worlds first dedicated quantum-photonic chip manufacturer. The plan for the facility is to produce a range of lithium niobate nanophotonic circuits for internal use in our own product lines and for general sale in the market. This initiative is expected to benefit from the US CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (the "CHIPS Act"), which allocates $52 billion for the revitalization and onshoring of semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S. The CHIPS Act funding includes $39 billion in manufacturing incentives and $13 billion to support new research and development. QCI is focused on providing integrated quantum information gathering, transmission, and processing solutions, including both the user interface software and the quantum hardware. With our proprietary full-stack technologies that are designed using our solution-oriented system architectures, we believe we will have a competitive advantage in the market. With an integrated engineering team working across multiple quantum technology domains, we believe we are uniquely positioned to leverage our expertise in software, hardware, and nanophotonic circuits to develop quantum services and products, from quantum chip design and manufacturing through cloud delivery and eventually sales of hardware systems. We believe this full-stack development approach offers both the fastest and lowest risk path to building commercially valuable quantum machines. Strategy QCIs strategy has evolved to become a full stack quantum solutions company, with products and services available in the market today. When QCI was formed several years ago, quantum computing was a fundamentally new paradigm compared with conventional computing, requiring a new and highly technical set of skills to create the hardware and software to drive quantum results. The pool of people with those skills is limited and in high demand. In addition, the predominant quantum computer programming approach, using one or more software development toolkits (SDKs) to create a quantum computing program was and continues to be today, slow and costly, and therefore poorly suited for non-quantum experts attempting to solve real world problems. Moreover, many types of quantum computing hardware require delicate and expensive cryogenic isolation systems just to maintain stability, which makes it difficult for users to interact with quantum computing systems. While quantum computing is generally still used mainly at universities and laboratories for research and science experiments, a larger user community is emerging, demanding greater capabilities from quantum systems, leading to frustration and comparisons to the similar market characteristics faced by artificial intelligence in its early days high expectations but low performance results. QCIs merger with QPhoton, combined with QCIs significant IP work that culminated in the development of the Companys Qatalyst software, enables the Company to offer room temperature quantum computation systems through cloud services today, as well as affordable, turn-key products in the future. This combination of quantum hardware and software will address the steep learning curve and highly particular skillsets generally associated with quantum information processing, which have historically represented significant barriers to adoption for companies and government entities looking to leverage novel quantum computing capabilities to solve problems. Market Opportunity For the past 45 years or so, silicon-based processor manufacturers have been able to double their processing power every 18 to 24 months, a phenomenon known in the computer industry as Moores Law. Recently, the computer processor industry has found it increasingly difficult to offer faster, more powerful processors due to fundamental physical effects limiting further size reduction of transistors, according to Were not prepared for the end of Moores Law, MIT Technology Review, February 2020; https:// www.technologyreview.com/2020/02/24/905789/ (Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, this website is not incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report, and you should not consider information on this website to be part of this Quarterly Report). Despite this progress in transistors and computing power, many of the worlds most important computational problems are still considered impractical to solve with classical computers of today and the foreseeable future. 3 With this in mind, quantum computing represents a potential alternative approach to the hard limits now being approached by conventional computers that utilize silicon-based processors. This is because quantum computers apply the properties of quantum physics to operate in a fundamentally different way. Classical computer chips use binary bits (ones and zeros) to represent information. Quantum computers utilize qubits, which leverage some of the properties of quantum physics to potentially process computations that would otherwise be intractably difficult using classical computers. Research suggests that quantum computers may be ideally suited to run optimization algorithms, where further advancements in approaches and quantum computing hardware could result in computational benefit over currently used conventional systems. See Quantum Computing for Finance: Overview and Prospects, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405428318300571 (Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, this website is not incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report, and you should not consider information on this website to be part of this Quarterly Report). The ability to solve challenging computational problems in a reasonable period of time is of particular interest in compute-heavy fields that include, but are not limited to: big data, artificial intelligence, healthcare, and cybersecurity. We believe these are natural markets for quantum computing, due to the immense compute power required to process large data sets, which have experienced rapid growth in size and complexity in recent years. Products and Products in Development Qatalyst QCIs evolution into full-stack quantum computing company was enabled by the prior creation of its Qatalyst software. The Qatalyst development platform is QCIs answer to the broader industrys current approach to quantum software development, which relies on highly trained scientists working with SDKs at the circuit level, which is analogous to programming in assembly language. Unlike SDKs, which require deep level quantum expertise to create quantum workflows, Qatalyst is not a tool kit, but a complete platform. Qatalyst enables developers to create and execute quantum-ready applications on conventional computers, while also being ready to run on multiple quantum computers. Qatalyst performs the complex problem transformations necessary to be executed on a variety of quantum processor platforms today. Users can call upon the same Qatalyst APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) on conventional computers to achieve optimization performance advantages using our cloud-based solution. Qatalyst dramatically reduces the required time, and the associated costs, for obtaining results from both conventional and quantum computers. It accelerates performance and results on classic and quantum computers, with no additional quantum programming or quantum computing expertise required. Qatalyst manages the workflow, optimizations, and results, without any further intervention by the user. Qatalyst provides a unique advantage to reduce applications development risks and costs by eliminating the need for scarce high-end quantum programmers. Building a quantum program with an SDK is time consuming and the resulting program must be updated constantly as QPUs evolve and change, resulting in significant development costs. Qatalyst automatically optimizes the same problem submitted by a subject matter expert (SME) for multiple quantum and classical processors. With Qatalyst, users only have to learn to use six API calls, which can be learned in a day by most programmers. Instead of spending months or years developing new applications and workflows requiring complex and extremely low-level coding with SDKs, users, workflows or applications can immediately submit a problem to Qatalyst within a day, using the same familiar constructs they use right now, via the Qatalyst API. Users have utilized Qatalysts simple API and familiar constructs to solve their first complex problem within a week, as compared to the 6-12 months associated with quantum software toolkits. Qatalyst integrates with our own Dirac-1 (EQC-1) and Dirac-2 (EQC-2) systems, and Qatalyst provides access to our QRNG-as-a-Service offering. Qatalyst is also integrated with the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud-based Braket service (AWS Braket), through which Qatalyst offers access to multiple Quantum Processing Units (QPUs) including Rigetti, Oxford Quantum Circuits and IonQ.By using Qatalyst, users can run their applications on any or all of the available QPUs by merely selecting which QPU they prefer to run on based on the desired performance results of the application. In addition, Qatalyst contains QCIs proprietary optimization problem solvers and QGraph and QAmplify tools. Qatalyst supports a variety of input formats for optimization problems to be solved on quantum computers including objective-and-constraints, Hamiltonian, and Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization (QUBO) formats. QGraph is a powerful transformation engine that enables SMEs to submit and analyze graph models as part of their complex optimizations. QGraph accepts familiar graph models and functions including Community Detection and Partitioning. QAmplify is a patented software technology that can expand the processing power of a quantum computer, primarily by spreading the problem over multiple small computers. 4 Entropy Quantum Computer The core of QCIs hardware offering is the Entropy Quantum Computer (EQC). The EQC leverages the principle of open quantum systems. The EQC differs substantially from todays Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ) computers offered by most of our competitors. Quantum systems are naturally open, meaning, they inevitably interact with their surrounding environment. However, as a result of these interactions, the wavefunctions describing those systems collapse, at which point the quantum information is lost and the NISQ system decoheres which causes significant processing challenges for NISQ architectures. The EQC works by coupling photonic states to their surrounding environment (the Entropy), including quantum fluctuations of the electromagnetic vacuum. This approach runs completely counter to those being developed with other atom / ion-based NISQ systems. The quantum vacuum fluctuations are ubiquitous and can be used to capture every possible outcome in a very large system with many configurations, simultaneously, making the approach ideal for fast and accurate computations in optimization problems. Todays NISQ computers are designed to produce closed quantum systems in pristine quantum states that are isolated from the environment, but there is a significant engineering cost to protect quantum information from the environment to eliminate noise. This is why NISQ quantum computers usually require cryogenic cooling, pure vacuum, vibration isolation and electromagnetic shielding. Those requirements introduce high cost, complex maintenance, and ongoing stability issues. Our EQC machines are not subject to those environmental isolation requirements and can function effectively in normal device settings (desktop or rack sizes, room temperature, battery-powered, turn-key, etc.). In addition to the Companys announcement of Dirac 1, our first commercially-available EQC, QCI plans to release a series of additional EQC products later in 2023. This family of products will include next generations of EQC that further expand the scale and capabilities of the EQC to broader, larger, and more complex optimization problems. Developing this family of products will involve improving the size and capacity of the EQC machines by continuing to innovate in the number, quality and operational fidelity of the qubits. This will include developing technology that operates using quantum digits (qudits) instead of quantum bits (qubits). A qudit-based computer may prove better at tackling complex problems than qubit-based computers, and may allow more computational power with fewer components. EQC Subscription Service The combination of the Entropy Quantum Computer and Qatalyst has enabled QCI to launch its cloud-based quantum computing solutions on a subscription basis. Subscriptions are offered on an annual, quarterly, and proof of concept (short term) basis with discounts provided for multiyear commitments. Subscription prices are based on the expected usage from each customer. A dedicated system subscription (currently offered as the Dirac Dedicated Subscription), is also available that provides unlimited usage within the SLA included in our agreement. QCI anticipates that our subscription service will be competitive with the quantum computing subscription services offered by our competitors, such as IBM, IonQ and Quantinuum. However, we believe our subscription service will offer significant computational advantage that will differentiate it from our competitors. The Dirac Dedicated Subscription will provide a customer with exclusive use of a Dirac EQC system from our datacenter without ever having to wait for other users to complete their work nor having to worry about the time it will take to solve their problem. QCI is also offering potential clients the opportunity to run problems on our EQC on an hourly-rate basis to demonstrate our computational value prior to entering into a longer subscription. Our Dirac Introductory Rate, which can be used for proof of concept evaluation, is an example of when this rate may apply. Some companies utilize a per transaction-based model. Quantum computers typically use shots (a shot is a single processing submission or run) to measure usage on their machines and per shot models typically cost a small fraction of a cent for each shot. Most quantum problems require hundreds of thousands of shots. While the cost per shot is very low, the cost to solve a problem can quickly rise to hundreds or thousands of dollars. AWS is one of the larger per shot providers utilizing their AWS Braket services for companies including IonQ, Rigetti, Oxford Quantum Circuits, and QuEra. 5 Usage of the Dirac EQC is done using a problem solution model, which is different from most other quantum computers. Rather than measure the number of shots made by our system; we solve the problem by finding the lowest ground state energy and measure the completion of the solution in the number of seconds or minutes it takes to complete solving the problem. While we anticipate that subscription sales will be the primary strategy moving forward, we have not ruled out providing a per usage based model by partnering with per shot providers such as AWS Braket and Strangeworks, and eventually sales of EQC hardware for on-premise implementation. Initially the EQC subscription services are hosted at the Companys data center in Hoboken, New Jersey. As usage grows, we may utilize other data centers including Amazon Web Services (AWS) for datacenter services. Many large computing and datacenter companies like, Google and Microsoft also sell access to third party Quantum Computers over their networks on a commission basis. While we are focused on selling subscriptions on Dirac in our own datacenter, there may be a time where we also provide subscriptions through Google, Microsoft, and Amazon through their Marketplaces. In addition to shared subscription services and dedicated subscription services, we intend in the future to provide to customers an on-premise implementation of the Dirac EQC as customer demand grows and our service organization matures. There are multiple markets which will require this type of delivery including the United States Government, United States Military and European Financial Organizations, where European laws require customer data to be always be in the control of the financial institutions. There are only a few on premise implementations of quantum computers today and they require commitments of tens of millions of dollars. While pricing has not been determined for the Dirac on-premise implementation, we expect it will be very competitive with the few on-premise quantum implementations available today from other firms. As a full stack quantum solutions provider, while selling subscriptions in some manner to Dirac EQCs will be the cornerstone of our business model, providing professional services or quantum solutions support will likely be needed in many cases, especially in the beginning of a customers quantum journey. We partner today with large management consulting companies as a way to scale our business and we expect that consulting partners will continue to grow in numbers and as a percentage of our customers. In addition, we plan to always provide a Quantum Solutions offering for customers that prefer to work directly with a full stack provider and customers who are using cutting edge technologies that may not have become supported yet by our consulting partners. As we evolve the LiDAR and sensing systems, imaging systems, and quantum-secured networking technologies into products, the models described above will be evaluated to select the best pricing and routes to market for each new product. Some will likely use the existing direct sale model that we are using for Dirac, some may use an OEM model for inclusion in other companies products, and others may be sold through 1 or 2 tier distribution. Each product will be evaluated for the best route to market to maximize the shareholder value based upon their individual product attributes. Quantum Photonic Applications The merger with QPhoton has broadened the Companys technology portfolio and enables us to develop a group of closely related products to EQC, based on our common core photonic technology. Products in development include: Quantum Optical Chips Optical chips will ultimately provide the greatest scalability and performance advantages for quantum information processing, sensing and imaging. The Company is actively working on the specification and design for a dedicated quantum optical chip fabrication facility to develop and produce Lithium Niobate optical chips (Quantum Chips) for quantum information processing and other single photon detection and sensing applications. The Company believes there is an opportunity to benefit from the recently authorized CHIPS Act and will take steps to establish a U.S.-based chip facility in 2023. The Company is evaluating multiple options for a facility site, as well as potential federal, state and regional funding incentives to help finance the project and advance quantum technology innovation. Construction of such a fabrication facility for the Quantum Chips may take several years and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise the necessary funding. 6 Quantum Imaging One of the most exciting opportunities in development involves leveraging the ability to count single photons and filter their associated wave functions precisely to obtain optical imaging through otherwise opaque and dense materials. Quantum imaging has the potential to be a powerful supplement to modern reconstructed computerized tomography (CT) imaging applications, where tissue damage from high energy radiation can and needs to be avoided. Optical chips will ultimately provide the greatest scalability and performance advantages for quantum information processing, sensing and imaging. When all of the critical optical components can be embedded on a fully integrated chip, the efficiency and fidelity of the photonic quantum technologies will be fully realized. A prototype quantum imaging system has been built and is currently undergoing testing by the Company. Cybersecurity Quantum Networks and Quantum Authentication The Cybersecurity field has been aware for some time of the potential threats and benefits of quantum computing resulting from the expectation that quantum computers will eventually have the capability to can break any of the currently utilized non-quantum-based encryption methods. However, effective cybersecurity goes well beyond encryption for protection. Effective cybersecurity requires a holistic approach to protecting the enterprise. The Company believes that our quantum computing capabilities may have applications in encryption. However, initially we are applying our quantum technologies to create secure transport layers (quantum networks) and endpoints (quantum authentication) which will contribute greatly to the cybersecurity domain, beyond encryption. QCI has several patents in the area of quantum-based technologies for protection of data at rest and in quantum private communication. QCI plans to begin commercial development of quantum networking products in 2023 and partnerships are actively being explored. Quantum Remote Sensing QLiDAR Our Quantum LiDAR (QLiDAR) can see through dense fog and provide image fidelity at great distances and through difficult environments such as snow, ice, and water. Once again, by leveraging the power of quantum mechanics and single photon detection, LiDAR systems can be greatly enhanced in their ability to measure at improved resolution and distances as well as extend these photonic signals to applications in vibrometry for material stress analysis, particle size analysis, and potential remote sensing from aircraft, drones and even satellites. In January 2023, QCIs federal contracting subsidiary, QI Solutions, received an award from NASA, through a subcontract from Science Systems Applications, Inc., to test its QLiDAR technology for remote measurement of the physical properties of different types of snowpacks including density, particle size and depth. We are also pursuing commercial development of QLiDAR applications and partnerships are actively being explored. Quantum Random Number Generator QRNG Our patented Quantum Random Number Generator (QRNG) technology, which is capable of generating non-repeating number sequences, can generate truly random numbers of various probability densities and correlation properties to serve many different applications including security, modeling, and finance. The QCI QRNG data output includes quantum random numbers (QRNs) that are either binary or high-dimensional, and either independent of, or correlated with each other. As an additional feature, users of the QCI QRNG can configure the QRNG to obey either a uniform probability distribution or a specific non-uniform probability distribution appropriate for their specific application, such as Gaussian, Lorentzian, or other distributions that are important for data simulation and analysis. The Company began offering the first series of QRNG products through a cloud-based subscription beginning in April 2023, and plans to offer an option to purchase the hardware, which is a handheld cube-sized QRNG device, later in 2023. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 vs. March 31, 2022 Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services 120,530 100 % 31,240 100 % 286 % Total $ 120,530 100 % $ 31,240 100 % 286 % 7 Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were $120,530 as compared with $31,240 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $89,290 or 286%. The increase in revenues is primarily due to changes in the number and size of active customer contracts and the level of effort performed on each one during the periods. Revenue in the current reporting period is derived from professional services provided to multiple government and commercial customers under multi-month contracts. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $56,239 as compared with $11,568 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $44,671 or 386%. The increase in cost of revenues is primarily due to the increase in direct labor expense required to perform on the contracts in the current quarter compared with the prior year period. Cost of revenues for the current reporting period consists primarily of salary expense. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $64,291 or 53% as compared with $19,672 or 63% for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $44,619, or 227%. The increase in gross margin dollars is primarily due to the increase in gross revenue compared with the prior year period, and the decrease in gross margin percentage is primarily due to the increases in the amount of direct labor and the higher cost of the skill sets required to perform the contracted services in the current period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were $7,851,801 as compared with $6,728,603 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $1,123,198 or 17%. The increase in operating expenses is primarily due to the $337,406 increase in salary expense related to an increase in the number and composition of staff, an increase of $510,010 in research and development expenses related to cost of additional technical labor, parts and supplies needed to design and test new hardware products, and an increase of $1,532,612 in other SG&A expenses. These increases were offset in part by a $1,110,989 decrease in stock-based compensation related in large part to the decline in our stock price in the current period, a decrease of $145,841 in consultant and professional services expense driven in large part by an increasing use of full and part time employees, and by a decrease in legal expense of $530,204 related to work on the QPhoton merger in the prior year period. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $8,506,139 as compared with a net loss of $7,133,692 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $1,372,447 or 19%. The increase in net loss is primarily due to the increase in operating expenses, noted above, as well as $718,629 in net interest expense related to the accrual of interest expense on the Streeterville Note, the amortization of the Original Issue Discount on the Streeterville Note and the Series A Convertible Preferred and Warrants recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared with net interest expense of $424,761 during the comparable prior year period relating to accrual of dividends and amortization of the Original Issue Discount on the Series A Convertible Preferred stock. This was offset in part by an increase of $20,981 in interest income earned in the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to use of the Morgan Stanley money market fund. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since commencing operations as Quantum Computing in February 2018, the Company has raised $34,311,359 through private placement of equity and $12,633,000 through private placements of Convertible Promissory Notes and other debt for a total of $46,944,359 in new investment. The Company has no lines of credit, and $8,287,969 in short -term debt obligations outstanding. The Company has an At The Market (ATM) facility, managed by Ascendiant Capital, with a ceiling of $25,000,000. As of March 31, 2023, the Company had cash and equivalents of $6,766,111 on hand. 8 The following table summarizes total current assets, liabilities and working capital at March 31, 2023, compared to December 31, 2022: March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Increase/ (Decrease) Current Assets $ 7,094,592 $ 5,587,647 $ 1,506,945 Current Liabilities $ 12,571,850 $ 6,545,320 $ 6,026,530 Working Capital (Deficit) $ (5,477,258 ) $ (957,673 ) $ (4,519,585 ) At March 31, 2023, we had a working capital deficit of $5,477,258 as compared to a working capital deficit of $957,673 at December 31, 2022, an increase in deficit of $3,531,105. The increase in working capital deficit is primarily due to the principal of the Streeterville Note becoming a current liability. Net Cash Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were $4,716,302 and $4,193,833, respectively. The net losses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, were $8,524,310 and $7,133,692, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were $378,753 and $1,243,955, respectively. The decrease in investment in the current period is primarily due to a $1,250,000 investment related to the Note Purchase Agreement with QPhoton in February 2022. In the current period the Company invested $378,753 in computer and laboratory equipment, as well as some office furniture. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were $6,551,455 and $212,500, respectively. The cash flow provided in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due to use of the ATM facility to sell common stock on the NASDAQ market. During the first three months of 2023, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity securities and the use of cash on hand. As of May 9, 2023, we had cash on hand of approximately $4,290,208. We have approximately $104,772 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll, employee benefits and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities will be the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Certain of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by our management, and such judgments are reflected in the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies, our management uses judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of estimates. Those estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of market trends, information provided by our strategic partners and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates contained in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Revenue from time and materials based contracts is recognized as the direct hours worked during the period times the contractual hourly rate, plus direct materials and other direct costs as appropriate, plus negotiated materials handling burdens, if any. Revenue from units-based contracts is recognized as the number of units delivered or performed during the period times the contractual unit price. Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognized as work is performed with estimated profits recorded on a percentage of completion basis. The Company has no cost reimbursement (cost-plus) type contracts at this time. 9 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2023 and for fiscal 2022, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.