Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and information about revenue and long-lived assets attributable to certain geographic regions is included in Note 2 , Revenue and Note 4, Balance Sheet Information , respectively, to the consolidated financial statements and risks attendant to our foreign operations is set forth below in Item 1A Risk Factors. Seasonality As is typical in our industry, we generally have the greatest demand for our products and services in the fourth quarter of each calendar year, or our fiscal third quarter. We usually experience the lowest demand for our products and services in the first and second quarters of each calendar year, or our fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal first quarter, respectively. Backlog On a historical basis we do not believe that product backlog was a meaningful indicator of net revenue that can be expected for any period. Our products are manufactured based on forecasts of customer demand and we work with our manufacturers and suppliers to support increases and decreases in demand. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. Product orders are confirmed and, in most cases, shipped to customers within four to six weeks. More complex systems and product configurations often have longer lead times, sometimes as 9 Table of Contents much as 26 weeks. Much of the product backlog is from these more complex systems and typically increases at the end of each fiscal quarter, with these products typically being shipped in the following quarter. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, there were supply chain shortages experienced industry-wide which restricted our ability to fulfill all orders. These shortages combined with customer bookings have created a significant backlog entering the first quarter of fiscal year 2022. Executive Officers and Management Team Following are the names and positions of our management team as of May 18, 2021, including a brief account of the business experience of each. Name Position with Quantum James J. Lerner President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board J. Michael Dodson Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth King Chief Revenue Officer Lewis Moorehead Chief Accounting Officer Brian E. Cabrera Chief Legal and Compliance Officer James J. Lerner, 51, was appointed as President and CEO of the Company, effective July 1, 2018, and was appointed Chairman of the Board on August 7, 2018. Mr. Lerner has previously served as Vice President and Chief Operating Officer at Pivot3 Inc. from March 2017 to June 2018, and Chief Revenue Officer from November 2016 to March 2017. Prior to Pivot3, from March 2014 to August 2015, Mr. Lerner served as President of Cloud Systems and Solutions at Seagate Technology Public Limited Company. Prior to Seagate, Mr. Lerner served in various executive roles at Cisco Systems, Inc., including most recently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Cloud & Systems Management Technology Group. Before beginning his career as a technology company executive, Mr. Lerner was a Senior Consultant at Andersen Consulting. Since 2011, Mr. Lerner has served on the Board of Trustees of Astia, a global not-for-profit organization built on a community of men and women dedicated to the success of women-led, high-growth ventures, and is currently serving as the Chair of the Board of Trustees. Mr. Lerner earned a Bachelor of Arts in Quantitative Economics and Decision Sciences from U.C. San Diego. J. Michael Dodson, 60, was appointed Chief Financial Officer effective May 31, 2018. He was also appointed interim Chief Executive Officer, a position in which he served until James J. Lerner joined the Company on July 1, 2018. From August 2017 to May 2018, Mr. Dodson served as the Chief Financial Officer of Greenwave Systems. Prior to joining Greenwave Systems, Mr. Dodson served as the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer at Mattson Technology, Inc. from 2012 to 2017. He joined Mattson as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in 2011. Prior to joining Mattson, Mr. Dodson served as Chief Financial Officer at four global public technology companies and Chief Accounting Officer for an S&P 500 company. Mr. Dodson started his career with Ernst & Young in San Jose, California. From 2013 through 2020, he served on the Board of Directors of Sigma Designs, Inc., a provider of system-on-chip solutions, including as Lead Independent Director starting in 2014 and Chairman of the Audit Committee starting in 2015. He has also served on Board of Directors of A10 Network from February 2020 until April 2021 and was named Chairman of their Audit Committee in June 2020. In addition, Mr. Dodson serves as a director of two private entities: a charitable organization and a privately held for-profit company. He holds a B.B.A. degree with dual majors in Accounting and Information Systems Analysis and Design from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Elizabeth King, 63, has served as Quantums Chief Revenue Officer since March 2019. Prior to Quantum, from January 2017 to February 2019, she was Vice President, Go-to-Market & Enablement, HPC & AI at HPE. She joined HPE as part of HPEs acquisition of SGI, where she served as SVP of worldwide sales from January 2014 through December 2016. Prior to HPE/SGI, she was vice president of strategic alliances for IBM and global systems integrators at Juniper Networks from June 2010 to January 2014. Prior to Juniper, she was vice president and general manager of the Hitachi Server Group of Hitachi Data Systems. She also held key senior sales, business development and operations roles at Nokia (formerly Alcatel-Lucent), Oracle (formerly Sun Microsystems), Raytheon, and Texas Instruments. Ms. King holds an MBA with honors from the University of Dallas and a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering from Lehigh University. Lewis Moorehead, 49, has served as our Chief Accounting Officer since October 2018. Prior to joining Quantum, Mr. Moorehead was the Director of Finance, Accounting and Tax at Carvana, Co., a publicly traded on-line retailer, 10 Table of Contents from November 2016 to October 2018. From September 2004 to October 2016, he served as Managing Partner at Quassey, an investment firm. While at Quassey, he also served as Vice President of Finance and Principal Accounting Officer at Limelight Networks, a NASDAQ-listed global content delivery network and SaaS provider, from March 2010 to August 2013. He has also held finance and accounting positions at eTelecare Global Solutions, Rivers and Moorehead PLLC, Intelligentias, Inc., American Express and PricewaterhouseCoopers. He holds a Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.), in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater. Brian E. Cabrera, 56, most recently served as the Assistant United States Attorney from October 2018 to April 2020 and as Special Assistant United States Attorney from October 2017 to October 2018 in the Office of the United States Attorney, Northern District of California. From May 2014 to June 2017, Mr. Cabrera served as Senior Vice President & General Counsel of NVIDIA Corporation. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Cabrera served as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer of Synopsys, Inc. from 2006 to 2014. From 1999 to 2006, Mr. Cabrera served as Senior Vice President, Operations, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Callidus Software, Inc. Prior to Callidus Software, Mr. Cabrera held various legal positions with PeopleSoft, Inc., Netscape Communications Corporation, Silicon Graphics and Bronson, Bronson & McKinnon. Human Capital Our Chief Human Resources Officer ("CHRO") leads our human capital initiatives which includes the design and execution of all people strategies. The CHRO partners directly with the Board of Directors, the Leadership and Compensation Committee, and Senior Management on the design, cost, and effectiveness of our people programs to ensure they are competitive and rewards our teams for driving company performance. This past year we saw the evolution and pivot of our business strategy to cloud and data services which tested our organizations agility and overall effectiveness. This inflection point served as a springboard to drive additional improvements across our business, including as it relates to our people strategy. Our workforce is distributed over 18 countries, with 827 employees globally as of March 31, 2021, with 509 in the U.S. and 318 internationally. We mobilize and engage our teams to support our cloud and data services strategy using the following objectives and measures. Overall Employee Satisfaction To measure employee engagement and satisfaction, we surveyed our employees four different times throughout fiscal year including (1) assessing their concerns when the pandemic first began, (2) conducted our annual Pulse Survey to measure our employees opinions on leadership and business strategy, culture, work environment, management, career development, and rewards and recognition, (3) assessed our employees thoughts on new people programs initiatives introduced in the year, and (4) our employees thoughts for what our work environment will look like beyond the pandemic. Response to COVID-19 Pandemic In February 2020, our CHRO addressed the rising concerns of the COVID-19 pandemic at the regular executive staff meeting. As the pandemic ensued, the CHRO with other leaders in the business formed the COVID-19 Task Force that met daily to determine employee safety protocols, build and communicate a workforce pandemic guide, produce regular communications about working from home and what to do if you test positive for the virus. Highlights from fiscal year 2021 included: Work-from-home : To support the transition to working from home, we ensured all our team members were equipped with the online meeting and chat tools for each virtual collaboration. We allowed our employees to take home equipment from the office including chairs or monitors to make them more comfortable at home. Benefits : As the duration of the pandemic ensued, we communicated to our employees the importance of mental health and well-being. We encourage our teams to take advantage of our virtual mental health resources and utilize virtual health care when doctors offices were closed. In addition, we implemented a Summer Hours program that allows people to take every other Friday off as a way to prevent employee burn out and spend time away from their workstations. 11 Table of Contents Essential worker safety : For our essential workers that could not work remotely, we provided all personal protective equipment including hand sanitizing stations, masks, gloves, added cleaning services and ensured social distancing. We provide the employees with a mobile application to personally screen for symptoms before accessing our sites. The safety of our employees and work environments remain a top priority. We published our pandemic guide with all written safety policies and protocols. Workforce of the future : Following the results of our Post Pandemic survey, we will continue to offer a hybrid work-from-home policy and use of current office space as centers of collaboration where our employees will have larger dedicated spaces for team meetings, customer engagements, or other social gatherings. To ensure we offer our employees the best work environment for productivity and success that suits their needs, we will also have space designated for single day use workstations. Culture of Excellence, Accountability, and Innovation Our company goals and leadership attributes set the tone for our culture of excellence and accountability. Through our Code of Conduct, Culture of Compliance survey, and monthly compliance newsletter, employees are empowered to ask questions, use their voice and report concerns without fear of retaliation. Our company culture supports and inspires innovation. Employees are encouraged to seek out new projects or experiences even outside their own working group. The leadership team created regular no internal meetings days so employees can have more time to work on innovative projects, plan, take a training course, or use the uninterrupted time for personal development. Talent Development Our talent is our greatest asset. We are actively growing our employees from a skills and leadership perspective while also retaining our high potential and most critical talent. We offer a worldwide mentorship program that last six months in duration and is available to any interested employee. All of our senior leaders participate in the program and get paired with an employee on key developmental skills or behaviors. In addition, we focus our performance reviews on a semi-annual basis in order to closely monitor and discuss our talent successes, needs, and aspirations. Our managers and employees participate in semi-annual discussions that help facilitate conversations of employee contributions, goals and expectations. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at https://www.quantum.com generally when such reports are available on the SEC website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this Annual Report, before investing in any of our securities. The occurrence of any single risk or any combination of risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity, or competitive position, and consequently, the value of our securities. The material adverse effects include, but are not limited to, not growing our revenue or market share at the pace that they have grown historically or at all, our revenue and market share fluctuating on a quarterly and annual basis, an extension of our history of losses and a failure to become profitable, not achieving the revenue and net income (loss) guidance that we provide, and harm to our reputation and brand. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The COVID-19 pandemic has affected our business and may continue to affect our business. The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have impacted and will continue to impact our workforce and operations, and those of our strategic partners, customers, suppliers and logistics providers. These impacts have included and may include under-absorbed overhead, increased logistics and other costs and decreased product output. While our third-party partners are all currently operational, in some cases with exemptions from government restrictions, this is subject to change based on evolving conditions related to the pandemic. The effects of the pandemic are uncertain and difficult to predict, but may include: Further disruptions to our supply chain, our operations or those of our strategic partners, customers or suppliers caused by employees or others contracting COVID-19, or governmental orders to contain the spread of COVID-19 such as travel restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, trade controls, and business shutdowns; A global economic downturn or a recession causing a decrease in short- or long-term demand for our products, resulting in industry oversupply and decreases of average selling prices (ASPs), which would negatively impact our sales and profitability; Deterioration of worldwide credit markets that may limit our ability or increase our cost to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures and result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to customer credit defaults; Extreme volatility in financial markets which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access the financial markets on acceptable terms, or at all; Increased data security and technology risk as many employees transition to work from home arrangements, including possible outages to systems and technologies critical to remote work and increased data privacy risk with cybercriminals attempting to take advantage of the disruption; and Managements ongoing commitment of significant time, attention and resources to respond to the pandemic. The degree to which the pandemic ultimately impacts our business and results of operations will depend on future developments beyond our control which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, the extent of actions to contain or treat COVID-19, the effectiveness of government stimulus programs, any possible resurgence of COVID-19 that may occur after the initial outbreak subsides, how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating activity can resume, and the severity and duration of the global economic downturn that results from the pandemic. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in more detail in this Risk Factors section, such as those relating to adverse global or regional conditions, our highly competitive industry, supply chain disruption, customer demand conditions and our ability to forecast demand, cost saving initiatives, our indebtedness and liquidity, and cyber-attacks. 13 Table of Contents If our products fail to meet our or our customers specifications for quality and reliability, we may face liability and reputational or financial harm which may adversely impact our results of operations and our competitive position may suffer. We may from time to time experience problems with the performance of our products, which could result in one or more of the following: Increased costs related to fulfillment of our warranty obligations; The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products; Focused failure analysis causing distraction of the sales, operations and management teams; or The loss of reputation in the market and customer goodwill. These factors could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we face potential liability for performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Loss of this data could cost our customers significant amounts of money, directly and indirectly as a result of lost revenues, intellectual property, proprietary business information or other harm to their business. In some cases, the failure of our products may have been caused by third-party technology that we incorporate into our products. Even if failures are caused by third-party technology, we may be required to expend resources to address the failure and work with our customers to preserve our relationship with them. We could also potentially face claims for product liability from our customers if our products cause property damage or bodily injury. Although there are limitations of liability in our commercial agreements and we maintain technology errors and omissions liability and general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of these types or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or litigation costs that are not covered by insurance or is in excess of our limitation of liability or our insurance coverage could harm our business. A certain percentage of our sales are to a few customers, some of which are also competitors, and these customers generally have no minimum or long-term purchase commitments. The loss of, or a significant reduction in demand from, one or more key customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product sales have been and continue to be concentrated among a small number of our direct end-user customers and channel partners as a result of how we sell our products. Under our business model, we sell directly to end user customers, through distributors, VARs and DMRs (which we collectively call our channel partners), as well as to OEMs. We sell to many end-user customers and channel partners on purchase orders, not under the terms of a binding long-term procurement agreement. Accordingly, they generally are not obligated to purchase any minimum product volume, and our relationships with them are terminable at will. In addition, recently we have focused our direct-sales business on the largest users of hierarchical storage architectures, the so-called Hyper-scalers; there are very few of these extremely large storage customers. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020 no single customers represented 10% or more of our total revenue. A significant reduction in orders from, or a loss of, one or more large customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our tape and disk products are incorporated into larger storage systems or solutions that are marketed and sold to end users by large OEM customers as well as channel partners. Because of this, we have limited market access to the end users who purchase from the OEMs and channel partners, which limits our ability to influence the end users purchasing decisions and to forecast their future purchases of our products. Revenue from OEM customers has decreased in recent years. Certain of our large OEM customers are also our competitors, and such customers could decide to reduce or terminate their purchases of our products for competitive reasons. These market conditions increase our reliance on these OEM and channel partners. Thus, a significant reduction, delay or cancellation of their orders with us would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our sales are to various agencies and departments of the U.S. federal government, and funding cuts to federal spending can adversely impact our revenue. In the past, we have experienced the impact of reduced government spending and temporary government shutdowns on our sales to government agencies. Future spending cuts by the U.S. federal government, temporary shutdowns of the U.S. federal government or changes in its procurement processes or criteria could decrease our sales to the federal government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Competition is intensifying in the data storage and protection market as a result of competitors introducing products based on new technology standards and merger and acquisition activity, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors in the data storage and protection market are aggressively trying to advance and develop new technologies and products to compete against our technologies and products. Consequently, we face the risk that customers could choose competitor products over ours. Competition in our markets is characterized by technological innovation and advancement. As a result of competition and new technology standards, our sales or gross margins could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of those competitors, such as Dell, IBM, HPE, and others, are much larger and have more diverse product offerings, and aggressively compete based on their reputations and greater size. Technological developments and competition over the years in the tape automation market, and in the storage market in general, have resulted in decreased prices for tape automation products and our other product offerings. Pricing pressure is more pronounced in the tape automation market for entry-level products and less pronounced for enterprise products. Over time, the prices of our products and competitor products have decreased, but such products often incorporate new or different features and technologies from what we offered in prior years. We face risks that customers could choose competitors products over ours due to these features and technologies or due to pricing differences. If competition further intensifies, our sales and gross margins for tape automation systems could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Industry consolidation and competing technologies with device products, which include tape drives and removable hard drives, have resulted in decreased prices and increasingly commoditized device products. Additionally, the competitive landscape in the data storage and protection market could continue to change due to merger and acquisition activity. Such transactions may impact us in a number of ways. For instance, they could result in: competitors consolidating, having greater resources and becoming more competitive with us; companies that we have not historically competed against entering into one or more of our primary markets and increasing competition in such market(s); customers that are also competitors becoming more competitive with us and/or reducing their purchase of our products; and competitors acquiring our current suppliers or business partners and negatively impacting our business model. These transactions also create uncertainty and disruption in the market because the timing of such a transaction and its degree of impact, or whether it will happen at all, are often unknown. Given these factors and others, such merger and acquisition activity may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully manage the changes that we have made and may continue to make to our infrastructure and management, our business could be disrupted, and that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Managing change is an important focus for us. In recent years, we have implemented several significant initiatives involving our sales and marketing, product engineering and operations organizations, aimed at increasing our efficiency and better aligning these groups with our corporate strategy. In addition, we have reduced headcount to streamline and consolidate our supporting functions as appropriate in response to market or competitive conditions and following past acquisitions and have increased our reliance on certain third-party business relationships. If we are unable to successfully manage the changes that we implement and detect and address issues as they arise, our business could be disrupted, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. 15 Table of Contents We must maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories. If we do not have sufficient service parts inventories, we may experience increased levels of customer dissatisfaction. If we hold excessive service parts inventories, we may incur financial losses. We maintain levels of service parts inventories to satisfy future warranty obligations and also to earn service revenue by providing enhanced and extended warranty and repair service during and beyond the warranty period. We estimate the required amount of service parts inventories based on historical usage and forecasts of future warranty and extended warranty requirements, including estimates of failure rates and costs to repair, and out of warranty revenue. Given the significant levels of judgment inherently involved in the process, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories to satisfy customer needs and to avoid financial losses from excess service parts inventories. If we are unable to maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. A cybersecurity breach into our products when used by our customers could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, harm our reputation, expose us to significant liability or otherwise damage our financial results. A cybersecurity breach into a system we have sold to a customer could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted provider of large-scale storage, archive and data protection products by adversely affecting the markets perception of the security or reliability of our products and services. Many of our customers and partners store sensitive data on our products, and a cybersecurity breach related to our products could harm our reputation and potentially expose us to significant liability. We also maintain sensitive data related to our employees, strategic partners and customers, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information on our own systems. We employ sophisticated security measures; however, we may face threats across our infrastructure including unauthorized access, security breaches and other system disruptions. It is critical to our business that our employees, strategic partners and customers sensitive information remains secure and that our customers perceive that this information is secure. A cybersecurity breach could result in unauthorized access to, loss of, or unauthorized disclosure of such information. A cybersecurity breach could expose us to litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and other possible liabilities. Additionally, a cyber-attack, whether actual or perceived, could result in negative publicity which could harm our reputation and reduce our customers confidence in the effectiveness of our solutions, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. A breach of our security systems could also expose us to increased costs including remediation costs, disruption of operations or increased cybersecurity protection costs that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of these types or may not be adequate to indemnify us for inability that may be imposed. Any imposition or liability or litigation costs that are not covered by insurance or in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. From time to time we have made acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may make acquisitions in the future, subject to certain debt covenants. For example, in December 2020, we acquired Square Box Systems Ltd. ("SBS"). We may also make significant investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions or significant investments, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that we may face in our efforts to integrate any recent or future acquisitions include, among others: failure to realize anticipated synergies from the acquisition; difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees; potential incompatibility of business cultures or resistance to change; coordinating geographically separate organizations; diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns; coordinating infrastructure operations in a rapid and efficient manner; the potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; 16 Table of Contents failure of acquired technology or products to provide anticipated revenue or margin contribution; insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; costs and delays in implementing or integrating common systems and procedures; reduction or loss of customer orders due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; impairment of existing customer, supplier and strategic relationships of either company; insufficient cash flows from operations to fund the working capital and investment requirements; difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; the possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment, the original investment may become impaired, and/or we may incur losses from these investments; dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company; the assumption of risks of the acquired company that are difficult to quantify, such as litigation; the cost associated with the acquisition, including restructuring actions, which may require cash payments that, if large enough, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity; and assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated adverse events or circumstances. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have taken considerable steps towards reducing our cost structure. The steps we have taken may not reduce our cost structure to a level appropriate in relation to our future sales and therefore, these cost reductions may be insufficient to achieve profitability. In the last several years, we have recorded significant restructuring charges and made cash payments to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses to respond to adverse economic and industry conditions, to execute strategic management decisions and to rationalize our operations following acquisitions. During fiscal years 2018 through 2021 we have implemented restructuring plans to eliminate certain positions in the U.S. and internationally and to exit certain locations. These restructuring plans may result in decreases to our revenues or adversely affect our ability to grow our business in the future. Workforce reductions may also adversely affect employee morale and our ability to retain our employees. We may take future steps to further reduce our operating costs, including future cost reduction steps or restructurings in response to strategic decisions, adverse changes in our business or industry or future acquisitions. We may be unable to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses at a rate and to a level appropriate in relation to our future sales, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these restructuring plans within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks related to Intellectual Property Some of our products contain licensed, third-party technology that provides important product functionality and features. The loss or inability to obtain any such license could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of our products contain technology licensed from third parties that provides important product functionality and features. We may not have continued access to this technology, for instance, if the licensing company ceased to exist, either from bankruptcy, dissolution or purchase by a competitor. In some cases, we may seek to enforce our contractual protections via litigation against the licensing company itself, which may cause us to incur significant legal or other costs and may not be resolved in our favor. Other legal actions, such as intellectual property actions, brought against the licensing company could also impact our future access to the technology. We also have limited visibility or control of the technology roadmap at the licensing company and cannot ensure that the licensing company will advance the roadmap of the licensed technology in the manner best for us. Any of these actions could negatively impact our technology licensing, thereby reducing the functionality or features of our products, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face the risk of not being able to quickly implement a replacement technology or otherwise mitigate the risks associated with not 17 Table of Contents having access to this licensed technology, which may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party intellectual property infringement claims could result in substantial liability and significant costs, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, third parties allege that our products infringe their patented or proprietary technology and demand that we purchase a license from them. For example, we are currently in patent litigation with Realtime Data LLC d/b/a IXO, which has been stayed, described in Note 11: Commitments and Contingencies . The ultimate outcome of any license discussion or litigation, including the Realtime litigation, is uncertain. Adverse resolution of any third-party infringement claim could subject us to substantial liabilities and require us to refrain from manufacturing and selling certain products. In addition, the costs incurred in intellectual property litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or if others use our proprietary technology without authorization, our competitive position may suffer. Our future success and ability to compete depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secrets laws and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. However, we cannot provide assurance that patents will be issued with respect to pending or future patent applications that we have filed or plan to file or that our patents will be upheld as valid or will prevent the development of competitive products or that any actions we have taken will adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. Enforcing our intellectual property rights can sometimes only be accomplished through litigation, which is expensive and can divert managements attention away from our business. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We license certain of our software under open source licenses. Because of the characteristics of open source software licenses, it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of whom have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. One of the characteristics of open source software is that the source code for our open source projects is publicly available, and anyone who obtains copies has a license under certain of our intellectual property rights, which, depending on the license, may include certain of our patents, to modify and redistribute the software and use it to compete in the marketplace. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. It is possible for competitors to use our open source project software to develop their own software, potentially reducing the demand for our solution and putting price pressure on our subscription offerings. We cannot guarantee that competitive pressure or the availability of new open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we use our own open source project software in our proprietary products. As a result, there is a risk that we may inadvertently release as open source certain code that was intended to be kept as proprietary, that reveals confidential information regarding the inner workings of our proprietary products, or that could enable competitors to more readily reverse engineer or replicate aspects of our proprietary technology that we would otherwise protect as trade secrets. We may also accept contributions from third parties to our open source projects, and it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the contributions and whether their use, including in our proprietary products, infringes, misappropriates or violates third-party intellectual property or other rights. The availability of certain of our own software in source code form may also enable others to detect and exploit security vulnerabilities in our products. 18 Table of Contents Our products may contain "open source" software and failure to comply with the terms of the open source license could have a material adverse effect on our competitive positions and financial results. Certain products or technologies acquired or developed by us may include open source software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge. Certain open source software licenses, however, require users of the open source software to license to others any software that is based on, incorporates or interacts with, the open source software under the terms of the open source license. Although we endeavor to comply fully with such requirements, third parties could claim that we are required to license larger portions of our software than we believe we are required to license under open source software licenses. If such claims were successful, they could adversely impact our competitive position and financial results by providing our competitors with access to sensitive information that may help them develop competitive products. In addition, our use of open source software may harm our business and subject us to intellectual property claims, litigation or proceedings in the future. Risks related to our Supply Chain and Sales Strategy As a result of our global manufacturing and sales operations, we are subject to a variety of risks related to our business outside of the U.S., any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our manufacturing and sales operations and supply chain occurs in countries other than the U.S. We also have sales outside the U.S. We utilize contract manufacturers to produce and fulfill orders for our products and have suppliers for various components, several of which have operations located in foreign countries including China, Hungary, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Mexico, the Philippines and Thailand. Because of these operations, we are subject to a number of risks including: import and export duties and value-added taxes; import, export and trade regulation changes that could erode our profit margins or restrict our ability to transport our products; reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property; compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulatory requirements and practices; commercial laws that favor local businesses; exposure to economic fluctuations including inflationary risk and continuing sovereign debt risk; shortages in component parts and raw materials; the burden and cost of complying with foreign and U.S. laws governing corporate conduct outside the U.S. including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act and other similar regulations; adverse movement of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar (the currency in which our results are reported) and uncertain global economic conditions generally; inflexible employee contracts and employment laws that may make it difficult to terminate or change the compensation structure for employees in some foreign countries in the event of business downturns; recruiting employees in highly competitive markets and wage inflation in certain markets; potential restrictions on the transfer of funds between countries; political instability, military, social and infrastructure risks, especially in emerging or developing economies; natural disasters, including earthquakes, flooding, typhoons and tsunamis; pandemics and epidemics, including the impact of COVID-19, and governmental restrictions on the operation of businesses, travel and other restrictions, which may vary from country-to-country; and cultural differences that affect the way we do business. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing, component production and service repair are outsourced to third-party contract manufacturers, component suppliers and service providers. If we cannot obtain products, parts and services from these third parties in a cost effective and timely manner that meets our customers expectations, this could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many aspects of our supply chain and operational results are dependent on the performance of third-party business partners. We use third-party contract manufacturers, service providers and/or product integrators in connection with our outsourced manufacturing model. We face a number of risks as a result of these relationships. Sole source of product supply 19 Table of Contents In many cases, our business partner may be the sole source of supply for the products or parts they manufacture, or the services they provide, for us. Because we are relying on one supplier in these situations, we are at greater risk of experiencing shortages, reduced production capacity or other delays in customer deliveries that could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales and increased expenses, each of which could materially damage customer relationships and result in lost revenue. Cost and purchase commitments We may not be able to control the costs for the products our business partners manufacture for us or the services they provide to us. They procure inventory to build our products based upon a forecast of customer demand that we provide. We could be responsible for the financial impact on the contract manufacturer, supplier or service provider of any reduction or product mix shift in the forecast relative to materials that they had already purchased under a prior forecast. Such a variance in forecasted demand could require us to pay them for finished goods in excess of current customer demand or for excess or obsolete inventory and generally incur higher costs. As a result, we could experience reduced gross margins and operating losses based on these purchase commitments. With respect to service providers, although we have contracts for most of our third-party repair service vendors, the contract period may not be the same as the underlying service contract with our customer. In such cases, we face risks that the third-party service provider may increase the cost of providing services over subsequent periods contracted with our customer. Financial condition and stability Our third-party business partners may suffer adverse financial or operational results or may be negatively impacted by global and local economic conditions. Therefore, we may face interruptions in the supply of product components or service as a result of financial or other volatility affecting our supply chain. We could suffer production downtime or increased costs to procure alternate products or services as a result of the possible inadequate financial condition of one or more of our business partners. Quality and supplier conduct We have limited control over the quality of products and components produced and services provided by our supply chain and third-party contract manufacturing and service business partners. Therefore, the quality of the products, parts or services may not be acceptable to our customers and could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty costs. In addition, we have limited control over the manner in which our business partners conduct their business. Sub-tier suppliers selected by the primary third-party could have process control issues or could select components with latent defects that manifest over a longer period of time. We may face negative consequences or publicity as a result of a third-partys failure to comply with applicable compliance, trade, environmental or employment regulations. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, on single-source suppliers, for several key components of our products, and we have not generally entered into agreements for the long-term purchase of these components. While we actively monitor and manage our supply chain, we cannot anticipate the potential impact that new or current restrictions due to COVID-19 may have on the manufacturing and shipment of our products. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers and the lack of any guaranteed sources of supply exposes us to several risks, including: the inability to obtain an adequate supply of key components; price volatility for the components of our products; failure of a supplier to meet our quality or production requirements; failure of a supplier of key components to remain in business or adjust to market conditions; and consolidation among suppliers, resulting in some suppliers exiting the industry, discontinuing the manufacture of components or increasing the price of components. 20 Table of Contents Further, some of the components in our products are sourced from component suppliers outside the United States, including from China. The portion of our products that are sourced outside the United States may subject us to additional logistical risks or risks associated with complying with local rules and regulations in foreign countries. Significant changes to existing international trade agreements could lead to sourcing or logistics disruption resulting from import delays or the imposition of increased tariffs on our sourcing partners. For example, there have been discussions regarding potential significant changes to U.S. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, and the United States and Chinese governments have announced import tariffs by both countries. If any new legislation and/or regulations are implemented, if existing trade agreements are renegotiated or terminated, or if tariffs are imposed on foreign-sourced or U.S. goods, it may be inefficient and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with such changes. Such operational changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As a result of these risks, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of these key components in the future or that the cost of these components will not increase. If our supply of components is disrupted or delayed, or if we need to replace our existing suppliers, there can be no assurance that additional components will be available when required or that components will be available on terms that are favorable to us, which could extend our lead times, increase the costs of our components and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to continue to procure components at reasonable prices, which may require us to enter into longer-term contracts with component suppliers to obtain components at competitive prices. Any of the foregoing disruptions could increase our costs and decrease our gross margins, harming our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not manage the supply of our products and their components efficiently, our results of operation could be adversely affected. Managing the supply of our products and underlying components is complex. Our third-party contract manufacturers procure components and build our products based on our forecasts, and we generally do not hold inventory for a prolonged period of time. These forecasts are based on estimates of future demand for our products, which are in turn based on historical trends and analyses from our sales and marketing organizations, adjusted for overall market conditions. In order to reduce manufacturing lead times and plan for adequate component supply, from time to time we may issue orders for components and products that are non-cancelable and non-returnable. Our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to make accurate forecasts and effectively manage the supply of our products and components. If we ultimately determine that we have excess supply, we may have to reduce our prices and write down or write off excess or obsolete inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. Alternatively, insufficient supply levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue, reduced product margins or loss of sales opportunities altogether. The current overall supply shortage related to semiconductors is an example currently impacting us. If we are unable to effectively manage our supply and inventory, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Because we may order components from suppliers in advance of receipt of customer orders for our products that include these components, we could face a material inventory risk if we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products or manage production, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Although we use third parties to manufacture our products, in some cases we may retain the responsibility to purchase component inventory to support third-party manufacturing activities, which presents a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. For instance, as part of our component planning, we may place orders with or pay certain suppliers for components in advance of receipt of customer orders. We may occasionally enter into negotiated orders with vendors early in the manufacturing process of our products to ensure that we have sufficient components for our products to meet anticipated customer demand. Because the design and manufacturing process for these components can be complicated, it is possible that we could experience a design or manufacturing flaw that could delay or even prevent the production of the components for which we previously committed to pay. We also face the risk of ordering too many components, or conversely, not enough components, since supply orders are generally based on forecasts of customer orders rather than actual customer orders. In addition, in some cases, we may make non-cancelable order commitments to our suppliers for work-in-progress, suppliers finished goods, custom sub-assemblies, discontinued (end-of-life) components and Quantum-unique raw materials that are necessary to meet our lead times for finished goods. If we cannot change or be released from supply orders, we could incur costs from the purchase of unusable components, either due to a delay 21 Table of Contents in the production of the components or other supplies or as a result of inaccurately predicting supply orders in advance of customer orders. These same risks exist with our third-party contract manufacturing partners. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we incur increased costs or are unable to fulfill customer orders. We rely on indirect sales channels to market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of or deterioration in our relationship with one or more of our resellers or distributors, or our inability to establish new indirect sales channels to drive growth of our branded revenue, especially for disk backup systems and scale-out tiered storage, could negatively affect our results of operations. We sell most of our branded products to distributors such as Arrow Electronics, Inc. and other VARs and DMRs such as CDW Corporation, who in turn sell our products to end users. We use different distributors, VARs and DMRs in different countries and regions in the world. The success of these sales channels is hard to predict, particularly over time, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from them that assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Several of our resellers carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A reseller might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each reseller determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Establishing new indirect sales channels is an important part of our strategy to drive growth of our branded revenue and as our business shifts toward our branded products, these indirect sales channels will have increasing importance to our business. When we introduce new products and solutions, our relationship with channel partners that historically have sold other products and solutions and that now compete with our new offerings could be adversely impacted. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by any number of factors related to our channel partners, including: A change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a resellers willingness or ability to distribute our products; The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products; Our inability to gain traction in developing new indirect sales channels for our branded products; The loss of one or more of such distributors or resellers; Any financial difficulties of such distributors or resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us; or Changes in requirements or programs that allow our products to be sold by third parties to government customers. Because we rely heavily on distributors and other resellers to market and sell our products, if one or more distributors were to experience a significant deterioration in its financial condition or its relationship with us, this could disrupt the distribution of our products and reduce our revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We heavily utilize distributors and VARs to perform the functions necessary to market and sell our products in certain product and geographic segments. To fulfill this role, the distributor must maintain an acceptable level of financial stability, creditworthiness and the ability to successfully manage business relationships with the customers it serves directly. If the distributor is unable to perform in an acceptable manner, we may be required to reduce the amount of sales of our product to the distributor or terminate the relationship. We may also incur financial losses for product returns from distributors or for the failure or refusal of distributors to pay obligations owed to us. Either scenario could result in fewer of our products being available to the affected market segments, reduced levels of customer satisfaction and increased expenses, which could in turn have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to Regulatory Matters Our operation and design processes are subject to safety and environmental regulations which could lead to increased costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the use, storage, discharge and disposal of materials and substances used in our facilities as well as the safety of our employees and the public. Current regulations in the U.S. and various international jurisdictions restrict the use of certain potentially hazardous materials used in electronic products and components (including lead and some flame retardants), impose a take back obligation on manufacturers for the financing of the collection, recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment and require extensive investigation into and disclosure regarding certain minerals used in our supply chain. We have implemented procedures and will likely continue to introduce new processes to comply with current and future safety and environmental legislation. However, measures taken now or in the future to comply with such legislation may adversely affect our costs or product sales by requiring us to acquire costly equipment or materials, redesign processes or to incur other significant expenses in adapting our supply chain, waste disposal and emission management processes. Furthermore, safety or environmental claims or our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us or the suspension of affected operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to many laws and regulations, and violation of or changes in those requirements could materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and requirements regarding corporate conduct, fair competition, corruption prevention and import and export practices, including laws applicable to U.S. government contractors. In addition, the SEC has adopted disclosure rules related to the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries, and we have incurred costs to comply with such regulations and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. While we maintain a rigorous corporate ethics and compliance program, we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, significant monetary fines or penalties, suspension of business opportunities or loss of jurisdictional operating rights as a result of any failure to comply with those requirements. If we were to be subject to a compliance investigation, we may incur increased personnel and legal costs. In addition, if we identify that we have fallen out of compliance, we may proactively take corrective actions, including the filing of voluntary self-disclosure statements with applicable agencies, which could cause us to incur additional expenses and subject us to penalties and other consequences that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our supply and distribution models may be reliant upon the actions of our third-party business partners and we may also be exposed to potential liability resulting from their violation of these or other compliance requirements. Further, our U.S. and international business models are based on currently applicable regulatory requirements and exceptions. Changes in those requirements or exceptions could necessitate changes to our business model. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A variety of state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personally identifiable information. These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development of new products. For example, in 2016, the European Parliament enacted the General Data Protection Regulation (or GDPR) which governs the collection, storage and use of personal information gathered in the European Union, regardless of where such information is stored. In 2018, California enacted the Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which regulates information stored by companies doing business in California. The regulations implementing the CCPA have not yet been published, and the implementation of standards for GDPR compliance continue to evolve. Our products and internal systems actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, which could result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, subject us to claims or other remedies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operating Results or Financial Condition 23 Table of Contents Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly, and past quarterly results of operations should not be used to predict future performance. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and could fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our quarterly results of operations should not be used to predict future performance. Quarterly results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: fluctuations in IT spending as a result of economic conditions or fluctuations in U.S. federal government spending; failure by our contract manufacturers to complete shipments in a timely manner; changes in product mix; new product announcements by us or our competitors which may cause delays in purchasing; customers canceling, reducing, deferring or rescheduling significant orders as a result of excess inventory levels, weak economic conditions or other factors; seasonality, including customer fiscal year-ends and budget availability impacting customer demand for our products; declines in large orders; declines in royalty or software revenues; product development and ramp cycles and product performance or quality issues of ours or our competitors; poor execution of and performance against expected sales and marketing plans and strategies; reduced demand from our OEM or distributors, VAR, DMR and other large customers; increased competition which may, among other things, increase pricing pressure or reduce sales; restructuring actions or unexpected costs; and foreign exchange fluctuations. Our results of operations depend on continuing and increasing market acceptance of our existing limited number of products and on new product introductions, which may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. A limited number of products comprise a significant majority of our sales, and due to rapid technological change in the industry, our future results of operations depend on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products. To compete effectively, we must continually improve existing products and introduce new ones. We have devoted and expect to continue to devote considerable management and financial resources to these efforts. When we introduce new products to the market, our new products may not achieve market acceptance or significant market share. In addition, the target markets for our new products may not continue or grow as we anticipate. Our new products may not be successfully or timely qualified by new customers, and if they are qualified, we may not achieve high volume production with these products in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, we may experience technical, quality, performance-related or other difficulties that could prevent or delay the introduction and market acceptance of new products. If we are not successful in timely completion of our new product qualifications and then ramping sales to our key customers, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the quality of our products is not acceptable to our customers, this could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty and repair costs. We derive significant revenue from products incorporating tape technology. Our future results of operations depend in part on continued market acceptance and use of products incorporating tape technology; in the past, decreases in the market have materially and adversely impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently derive significant revenue from products that incorporate some form of tape technology, and we expect to continue to derive significant revenue from these products in the next several years. As a result, our future results of operations depend in part on continued market acceptance and use of products employing tape technology. We believe that the storage environment is changing, including reduced demand for tape products. Decreased market acceptance or use of products employing tape technology has materially and adversely impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we expect that our revenues from certain types of tape products 24 Table of Contents could continue to decline, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Disk and solid-state products, as well as various software solutions and alternative technologies such as crystal and organic material-based storage have been announced by other companies. We expect that, over time, many of our tape customers could migrate toward our other products and solutions and that revenue from these other products and solutions will generate a greater proportion of our revenue in the future. While we are making targeted investments in software, disk backup systems and other alternative technologies, these markets are characterized by rapid innovation, evolving customer demands and strong competition, including competition with several companies who are also significant customers. If we are not successful in our efforts, we may not be able to retain customers or attract new customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We continue to face risks related to economic uncertainty and slow economic growth. Uncertainty about economic conditions, particularly under the current circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, poses a risk as businesses may further reduce or postpone spending in response to reduced budgets, tightening of credit markets, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The volatile economic conditions in recent years along with periods of economic uncertainty in various countries around the world has made planning more difficult for us. We continue to face risks related to uncertain tariff levels between countries where our products are manufactured and where they are sold, unstable political and economic conditions in Europe, including concerns about sovereign debt, and uncertainty related to the United Kingdoms exit from the European Union and related political matters, which could negatively impact the U.S. and global economies and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to access capital markets in the near-term or our ability to access capital markets may be restricted. Our inability to access capital markets in an effective and efficient manner could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions and could also materially and adversely affect our ability to sustain our operations at their current levels. A significant decline in our media royalty or branded software revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our media royalties and branded software revenues generate relatively greater profit margins than some of our other products, and can significantly impact our overall profitability. We receive media royalty revenue based on tape media cartridges sold by various tape media manufacturers and resellers. Under our patent and technology license agreements with these companies, each of the licensees determines the pricing and number of units of tape media cartridges that it sells. Our media royalty revenue varies depending on the level of sales of the various media cartridge offerings sold by the licensees and other factors, including: The continued use by our customers of tape media for storage; The size of the installed base of devices and similar products that use tape media cartridges; The performance of our strategic licensing partners, which sell tape media cartridges; The relative growth in units of newer device products, since the associated media cartridges for newer products typically sell at higher prices than the media cartridges associated with older products; The media consumption habits and rates of end users; The pattern of device retirements; The level of channel inventories; and agreement on standards for newer generations of the tape media that generates our royalty revenue. Our stock price has experienced significant volatility in the recent past, and this significant volatility may continue to occur and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our stock price has been extremely volatile in the recent past. For example, the closing price of our common stock was $8.35 on January 29, 2020 and was $1.48 on March 18, 2020. 25 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as: quarterly variations in our results of operations; failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors; failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or any investigations or enforcement actions; related to a potential failure to comply with applicable regulations; significant changes in our brand or reputation; new products, services, innovations and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public, and the issuance of common stock upon exercise of our outstanding warrants; large or sudden purchases or sales of stock by existing or new investors; and the result of any litigation or governmental investigation, which could result in liabilities and reputational harm. Other macro-economic forces also could affect our stock price, including: changes in interest and exchange rates; a continued widespread decline in the U.S. or global economy as a result of the continued impact of COVID-19 or other pandemics or natural disasters; fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for technology companies in particular; and tariffs imposed by the U.S. Government on sales originating in or being shipped to countries with which we have on-going trade or other political conflicts. Any of these events and factors may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. We have previously identified deficiencies in our control environment and financial reporting process that resulted in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and previously concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure