Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed Quantum Computing, Inc. (the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview At the present time, we are a development stage company. The Company is currently developing quantum ready software applications and solutions for companies that want to leverage the promise of quantum computing. Independent of when quantum computing delivers compelling performance advantage over classic computing, the software tools and applications to accelerate real-world problems must be developed to deliver quantum computings full promise. We specialize in quantum computer-ready software application, analytics, and tools, with a mission to deliver differentiated performance using non-quantum processors in the near-term. Quantum computing is a fundamentally new paradigm compared with conventional silicon-based computing, requiring a new and highly technical set of skills to create the software that will drive quantum results. Organizations seeking to gain advantage from the promise of quantum technology must acquire and develop skills in quantum mechanics, mathematics and physics, and a deep knowledge of the ever-changing quantum hardware. The pool of people with those skills today is limited and in high demand. By reducing the barriers to adoption for commercial and government entities to use quantum computing technologies to solve their most complex problems, we believe our products will accelerate quantum technology adoption similar to the adoption curve that has been witnessed with artificial intelligence. Products and Products in Development MUKAI The Companys primary offering is the Mukai platform. Mukai enables developers to create and execute quantum-ready applications on classical computers, while being ready to run on quantum computers where those systems achieve performance advantage. Mukai performs the complex problem transformations necessary to be executed on a variety of quantum platforms today, and users can call upon the same Mukai APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) to achieve optimization performance advantages on conventional computers using our cloud-based solution. 1 Mukai is the only quantum acceleration platform available today, dramatically reducing the time-to-quality results and the associated costs for both classical and quantum computers. Unlike more common toolsets that require deep level quantum expertise to build new quantum problems and workflows, Mukai is not a tool kit, but a complete platform. It accelerates performance and results on classic and quantum computers, with no additional quantum programming or quantum computing expertise required. This is why it is unique in its approach to the quantum computing industry. Instead of invoking a team of quantum specialists to transform an optimization problem, a subject matter expert (SME) or programmer submits their current problem via a software API to the Mukai cloud-based platform. Mukai manages the workflow, optimizations, and results, without any further intervention by the user. Mukai provides a unique advantage to reduce applications development risks and costs by eliminating the need for scarce high-end quantum programmers. Mukai is integrated with the Amazon Cloud BRAKET API, offering access to multiple Quantum Processing Units (QPUs) including DWave, Rigetti, and IonQ. Mukai also integrates directly with IBMs QPUs. By using Mukai, application developers can run their applications on any or all of the available QPUs by merely selecting which QPU they prefer to run on based on the desired performance results of the application. This is an enormous advantage over any other toolkit or platform in the market today. These advantages are significant not just for application developers but for any company that is considering using or exploring quantum computing technology for business applications. Mukai also eliminates the need for the low-level hardware programming expertise required by toolkits. This programming is time consuming and must be updated constantly as QPUs evolve and change, resulting in significant development costs. Mukai automatically optimizes the same problem submitted by a SME for multiple Quantum and Classical Processors. The SME or programmer selects one, or many, processing resources and the problem will be submitted by Mukai. This is an enormous advantage over any tool set in the market today. These advantages are significant not just for application developers but for any company that is considering using or exploring quantum computing technology for business applications. SOLVERS Built into Mukai are several solvers, primarily QBSolv. QBSolv addresses time-bound optimization problems where the outcome is driven by a hard time constraint. QBSolv is a highly optimized classical application that has demonstrated significant performance advantages over current solvers in the market today. The QBsolv application expands the range of solution option outcomes for optimization problems, presenting organizations with the capability to make better decisions. Furthermore, because of QBSolvs performance advantages it is able to uncover new solution options for problems that are currently unattainable with todays solvers. It is important to note that our solvers deliver these performance advantages while running on todays conventional computers and will significantly improve performance as better QPU technology becomes available. To that end, the Company is beginning to seek marketing and distribution partnerships where our current solver technologies can be deployed to enable industry-specific application performance. The Company is also working on software products to address community detection to aid researchers in discovering correlations that may not have been imagined. Community detection holds significant promise in pharmaceutical applications such as evaluating client trial outcomes, and in epidemiology to enable detection of common factors among a population. In addition to commercial markets, QCI is pursuing a number of US government funded opportunities. The US Government, through the National Quantum Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law No: 115-368 - 12/21/2018) directed the President to implement a National Quantum Initiative Program to, among other things, establish the goals and priorities for a 10-year plan to accelerate the development of quantum information science and technology applications. (Sec. 103) The National Science and Technology Council shall establish a Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science, including membership from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), to guide program activities. (Sec. 104) The President must establish a National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee to advise the President and subcommittee on the program and trends and developments in quantum information science and technology. Significant government funding has been allocated for research initiatives including a recent Department of Energy initiative of $625 million over the next five years to establish two to five multidisciplinary Quantum Information Science (QIS) Research Centers in support of the National Quantum Initiative. The Quantum Economic Development Consortium (QED-C), a consortium of stakeholders that aims to enable and grow the U.S. quantum industry. QED-C was established with support from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) as part of the Federal strategy for advancing quantum information science and as called for by the National Quantum Initiative Act enacted in 2018. Quantum Computing Inc. is one of the founding members of the QED-C. 2 QCI is pursuing a number of research areas funded by the government that directly relate to its capabilities. To strengthen its technology base, QCI has entered into a Technology Alliance Partnership agreement with Splunk, Inc. (NASDAQ: SPLK). QCI will partner with Splunk to do both fundamental and applied research and develop analytics that exploit conventional large-data cybersecurity stores and data-analytics workflows, combined with quantum-ready graph and constrained-optimization algorithms. These algorithms will initially be developed using QCIs Mukai software platform, which enables quantum-ready algorithms to execute on classical hardware and also to run without modification on QC hardware when ready. Once proofs of concept are completed, QCI and Splunk will develop new analytics with these algorithms in the Splunk data-analytics platform, to evaluate quantum analytics readiness on real-world data. The Splunk platform/toolkits help customers address challenging analytical problems via neural nets or custom algorithms, extensible to Deep Learning frameworks through an open source approach that incorporates existing and custom libraries. The initial efforts of our partnership with Splunk will focus on three key challenges; network security and dynamic logistics and scheduling. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 vs. September 30, 2019 Revenues For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Total $ 0 100.0 % $ 0 100.0 % 0 % Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2020 were $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0, or 0%. The lack of revenue is due to the fact that the Company has not yet completed the development and testing of any products for sale, or sold any products or services to any customers. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0 or 0%. There was no cost of revenues recorded because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There was no gross margin because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. 3 Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2020 were $8,676,183 as compared with ($784,159) for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $9,460,342, or 1,206%. The increase in operating expenses is due in large part to the $7,906,559 increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $46,345 increase in legal fees in the third quarter of 2020 compared with the comparable period in 2019. In addition, changes in the number and composition of staff resulted in a $203,755 increase in consulting expenses, and a $30,092 increase in research and development expenses, compared to the comparable prior year period. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was $11,657,324 as compared with a net gain of $770,304 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $12,427,628 or 1,613%. The increase in net loss is primarily due to the increase in operating expenses, primarily stock based compensation as described above, and an increase of $2,981,141 in interest expense largely associated with the mark to market repricing of a convertible promissory note derivative, issuing warrants, and other financing related expenses recorded in the current period compared to the comparable prior year period. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 vs. September 30, 2019 Revenues For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Total $ 0 100.0 % $ 0 100.0 % 0 % Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 were $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0, or 0%. The lack of revenue is due to the fact that the Company has not yet completed the development and testing of any products for sale, or sold any products or services to any customers. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0 or 0%. There was no cost of revenues recorded because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. Gross Margin Gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There was no gross margin because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. 4 Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 were $11,332,131 as compared with $1,781,961 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $9,550,170, or 536%. The increase in operating expenses is due in large part to the $7,585,213 increase in stock-based compensation, a $414,000 increase research and development expenses, and a $47,383 increase in legal fees in the first nine months of 2020 compared with the comparable period in 2019. In addition, changes in the number and composition of staff resulted in a $66,903 increase in salary and benefit expenses, and a $171,059 increase in consulting expenses, compared to the comparable prior year period. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $14,134,102 as compared with a net loss of $1,898,596 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $12,235,506 or 644%. The increase in net loss is primarily due to the increase in operating expenses, noted above, plus a $3,234,497 increase in interest expense largely associated with the mark to market repricing of a convertible promissory note derivative, replacing one derivative with another, granting warrants, and repricing existing warrants, and other financing related expenses recorded in the current period compared to the comparable prior year period, offset in part by $432,500 in other income from a legal settlement and a local government business grant. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since commencing operations as Quantum Computing in February 2018, the Company has raised $5,489,500 through private placement of equity and $5,341,055 through private placements of Convertible Promissory Notes for a total of $10,820,555 in new investment. The Company has no bank loans or lines of credit, and no long-term debt obligations. As of September 30, 2020, the Company had cash and equivalents of $3,978,433 on hand. The following table summarizes total current assets, liabilities and working capital at September 30, 2020, compared to December 31, 2019: September 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 Increase/(Decrease) Current Assets $ 3,983,730 $ 122,649 $ 3,861,081 Current Liabilities $ 3,387,618 $ 2,960,538 $ 427,080 ) Working Capital (Deficit) $ 596,112 $ (2,837,889 ) $ 3,434,001 At September 30, 2020, we had working capital of $596,112 as compared to working capital deficit of $2,837,889 at December 31, 2019, an increase of $3,434,001. The increase in working capital is primarily attributable to an increase in cash from new sources of equity financing, net of increases in accrued expenses, short-term loans and derivative liability. Net Cash Net cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 was $5,449,716 and $1,544,642, respectively. The net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, was $14,134,102 and $1,898,596, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 were $3,258 and $13,077, respectively representing a $9,819 decrease in investments for computer equipment in 2020 compared with the first nine months of 2019. 5 Net cash provided in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $9,330,307 and cash flows provided in the same period of 2019 was $99,036. Cash flows provided in financing activities during the first nine-month period in 2020 were primarily attributable to issuance of common stock and convertible notes, conversion of convertible notes to stock, and the exercise of warrants issued with those notes. The cash flow used in financing activities during the first nine months of 2019 were related to the conversion of convertible promissory notes to common stock. Previously, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. During 2020, we have funded our operations through the sale of equity and convertible debt securities and exercise of warrants issued in conjunction with convertible debt, and income from a legal settlement with REMTC. As of November 11, 2020, we had cash on hand of approximately $4,858,272. We have approximately $8,795 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Our current capital and revenues are not sufficient to fund such expansion and we will continue to rely on the sale of our debt and or equity securities to fund operations. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities will be the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Going Concern The Companys financial statements have been prepared on the basis that it is a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has earned no revenue from operations in the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, and has an accumulated deficit of $42,895,057 and $22,278,462, respectively. The Companys ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to develop additional sources of capital or ultimately acquire an entity which the Company hopes will become profitable at some time in the near future. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Management is seeking additional capital to finance the operations of the Company. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the nine months ended September 30, 2020 or for fiscal 2019, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Use of Estimates: These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Because a precise determination of assets and liabilities, and correspondingly revenues and expenses, depends on future events, the preparation of financial statements for any period necessarily involves the use of estimates and assumption an example being assumptions in valuation of stock options. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates. These financial statements have, in managements opinion, been properly prepared within reasonable limits of materiality and within the framework of the accounting policies summarized below. 6 Cash and Cash Equivalents The Companys policy is to present bank balances under cash and cash equivalents, which at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost or contributed value. Depreciation of furniture, software and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, and leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the lease term. The cost and related accumulated depreciation of equipment retired or sold are removed from the accounts and any differences between the undepreciated amount and the proceeds from the sale are recorded as a gain or loss on sale of equipment. Net Loss Per Share: Net loss per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares and common shares equivalents outstanding during the period.