ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION. The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those consolidated financial statements that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. See Forward-Looking Statements. Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition (MD&A) is a supplement to the accompanying condensed financial statements and provides additional information on Quantum Computing Inc.s (Quantum or the Company) business, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. When we say we, us, our, Company, or Quantum, we mean Quantum Computing Inc. Overview At the present time, we are a development stage company with limited operations. The Company plans to enter the market for high performance computers and software applications, specifically focusing on what are known as quantum computers. The Company has assembled a team of experts in super computing software technology and quantum mathematics, which will focus on the design and development of several quantum software applications targeting solutions to non-deterministic polynomial applications. The Companys development team has initially focused on addressing computational problems in the financial services, defense, heavy manufacturing, and computer security (cyber) market segments. The Companys development team includes world class mathematicians, physicists, and software developers. 22 Results of Operations Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2019 vs. December 31, 2018 Revenues For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2019 For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2018 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Total $ 0 100.0 % $ 0 100.0 % 0 % Revenues for the Twelve Months ended December 31, 2019 were $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0, or 0%. The lack of revenue is due to the fact that the Company had not yet completed the development and testing of any products for sale, or offered services to any customers, until late in the year. We have developed and released two products and are now in the process of marketing and commercialization. We expect to generate revenue in 2020. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the Twelve Months ended December 31, 2019 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0 or 0%. There was no cost of revenues recorded because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. Gross Margin Gross margin for the Twelve Months ended December 31, 2019 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There was no gross margin because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the Twelve Months ended December 31, 2019 were $2,547,652 as compared with $5,798,953 for the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $3,251,301, or 56%. The decrease in operating expenses is due to a $3,967,130 decrease in stock based compensation expenses, and a $25,184 decrease in salaries expense, which were offset in part by a $640,486 increase in research and development expenses, a $38,824 increase in consulting fees, a $189,846 increase in legal and audit fees compared to the comparable prior year period, and a $128,143 decrease in other SG&A expenses compared to the comparable prior year period. Net Loss Our net loss for the Twelve Months ended December 31, 2019 was $8,381,088 as compared with a net loss of $10,507,093 for the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $2,126,006 or 20.2%. The decrease in net loss is primarily due to the decrease in operating expenses recorded in the current period compared to the comparable prior year period, as noted above, and the decrease of $3,192,165 in beneficial conversion feature expense that was incurred in connection with an offering of Convertible Promissory Notes, and a decrease of $625,333 in asset impairment charges which were offset in part by an increase in accrued interest expense on the outstanding Convertible Promissory Notes of $63,877 and an increase in derivative and warrant expenses of $4,887,726 in the current period. 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources Since commencing operations as Quantum Computing in February 2018, the Company has raised $75,000 through private placement of equity and $4,495,500 through private placements of Convertible Promissory Notes for a total of $4,570,500 in new investment. The Company has no bank loans or lines of credit, and no long-term debt obligations. As of March 27, 2020, the Company had cash and equivalents of $245,249 on hand. Financings To finance the acquisition of the control block of shares in IBGH, an investor group (the Initial Investors), loaned Convergent Risk Group, LLC (Convergent) $275,000, in exchange for Promissory Notes from Convergent (the Promissory Notes) in the total amount of $275,000. Convergent, a Virginia limited liability company, is owned 100% by Mr. Robert Liscouski, the Companys CEO. To induce Mr. Liscouski to serve as CEO of the Company, the Company assumed the Promissory Notes in the total amount of $275,000 and certain liabilities (the Liabilities). The Liabilities and the Promissory Notes are collectively the Convergent Liabilities. The Convergent Liabilities assumed by the Company were exchanged for Convertible Promissory Notes issued by the Company for $275,000 (the same amount that Convergent had issued them for). The Convertible Promissory Notes accrue interest at eight percent (8%) per annum and are convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $0.10 per share at any time prior to or at August 10, 2020. The Company also assumed a promissory note from one of the Initial Investors to Convergent in the amount of $100,000, which is payable on or before June 30, 2019. The promissory note was issued in payment for a promissory note from Convergent to the Initial Investor, which has also been assumed by the Company in exchange for a Convertible Promissory Note in the amount of $100,000, convertible to Company common shares at a conversion price of $0.10 per share. If the promissory note is paid in full on or before June 30, 2019, the Companys Convertible Promissory Note will convert and shares will be issued. If the promissory note is not paid in full on or before December 31, 2020, the Companys Convertible Promissory Note held by this investor will be cancelled, and no shares will be issued. While the conversion of the Convertible Promissory Notes is mandatory prior to August 10, 2020, the election to convert is at the option of the Initial Investor. The Company has no obligation to repay the Initial Investors in cash. However, the conversion of the Convertible Promissory Notes will result in dilution of other shareholders once the Initial Investors convert their notes into the Companys common stock. Critical Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation: The accompanying Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2019, which was derived from audited financial statements, and the unaudited interim financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for interim financial information, the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. In the opinion of management, the accompanying audited, financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019, and the cash flows and results of operations for the twelve months then ended. Such adjustments consisted only of normal recurring items. The results of operations for the twelve months ended December 31 are not necessarily indicative of the results for subsequent periods. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted. The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in the Companys 2018 Form 10-K, filed with Securities and Exchange Commission, and it is suggested that these financial statements be read in conjunction therewith. Accounting Changes Except for the changes discussed below, Quantum has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in these unaudited financial statements. 24 Adoption of ASC 842 On January 1, 2019, we adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 842, Leases (ASC 842) which requires the recognition of the right-of-use assets and relating operating and finance lease liabilities on the balance sheet. As permitted by ASC 842, we elected the adoption date of January 1, 2019, which is the date of initial application. As a result, the consolidated balance sheet prior to January 1, 2019 was not restated, continues to be reported under ASC Topic 840, Leases (ASC 840), which did not require the recognition of operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet, and is therefore not comparative. Under ASC 842, all leases are required to be recorded on the balance sheet and are classified as either operating leases or finance leases. The lease classification affects the expense recognition in the income statement. Operating lease charges are recorded entirely in operating expenses. Finance lease charges are split, where amortization of the right-of-use asset is recorded in operating expenses and an implied interest component is recorded in interest expense. The expense recognition for operating leases and finance leases under ASC 842 is substantially consistent with ASC 840. As a result, there is no significant difference in our results of operations presented in our consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for each period presented. We adopted ASC 842 using a modified retrospective approach for all leases existing at January 1, 2019. The adoption of ASC 842 had a minor impact on our balance sheet. The most significant impact was the recognition of the operating lease right-of-use assets and the liability for operating leases. The accounting for finance leases (capital leases) was substantially unchanged. Accordingly, upon adoption, leases that were classified as operating leases under ASC 840 were classified as operating leases under ASC 842, and we recorded an adjustment of $2,491 to operating lease right-of-use asset and the related lease liability. The lease liability is based on the present value of the remaining minimum lease payments, determined under ASC 840, discounted using our incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of January 1, 2019. As permitted under ASC 842, we elected several practical expedients that permit us to not reassess (1) whether a contract is or contains a lease, (2) the classification of existing leases, and (3) whether previously capitalized costs continue to qualify as initial indirect costs. The application of the practical expedients did not have a significant impact on the measurement of the operating lease liability. As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2019 we had no finance leases. The impact of the adoption of ASC 842 on the balance sheet at December 31, 2018 was: As Reported December 31, 2018 Adoption of ASC 842 Increase (Decrease) Revised Balance January 1, 2019 Other Current Assets 1,767,080 1,767,080 Operating Lease right-of-use assets - 2,491 2,491 Total assets 1,797,156 2,491 1,799,647 Other current liabilities 3,314,102 3,314,102 Lease Liability-current - 2,491 2,491 Long-term Liabilities - - - Total Liabilities and equity 1,797,156 2,491 1,799,647 We lease substantially all our office space used to conduct our business. We adopted ASC 842 effective January 1, 2019. For contracts entered into on or after the effective date, at the inception of a contract we assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. Our assessment is based on (1) whether the contract involves the use of a distinct identified asset, (2) whether we obtain the right to substantially all the economic benefit from the use of the asset throughout the period, and (3) whether we have the right to direct the use of the asset. At inception of a lease, we allocate the consideration in the contract to each lease component based on its relative stand-alone price to determine the lease payments. Leases entered into prior to January 1, 2019 are accounted for under ASC 840 and were not reassessed. 25 Leases are classified as either finance leases or operating leases. A lease is classified as a finance lease if any one of the following criteria are met: (1) the lease transfers ownership of the asset by the end of the lease term, (2) the lease contains an option to purchase the asset that is reasonably certain to be exercised, (3) the lease term is for a major part of the remaining useful life of the asset or (4) the present value of the lease payments equals or exceeds substantially all of the fair value of the asset. A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not meet any one of these criteria. Substantially all our operating leases are comprised of office space leases and as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2019 we had no finance leases. For all leases at the lease commencement date, a right-of-use asset and a lease liability are recognized. The right-of-use asset represents the right to use the leased asset for the lease term. The lease liability represents the present value of the lease payments under the lease. The Company is currently leasing space on a month-to-month basis while we evaluate alternatives for expansion facilities. Accordingly, no right-or-use asset or lease liability are currently recognized. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which primarily comprises the initial amount of the lease liability, plus any initial direct costs incurred, consisting mainly of brokerage commissions, less any lease incentives received. All right-of-use assets are reviewed for impairment. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or if that rate cannot be readily determined, our secured incremental borrowing rate for the same term as the underlying lease. For our real estate and other operating leases, we use our secured incremental borrowing rate. For our finance leases, we use the rate implicit in the lease or our secured incremental borrowing rate if the implicit lease rate cannot be determined. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following: the fixed noncancelable lease payments, payments for optional renewal periods where it is reasonably certain the renewal period will be exercised, and payments for early termination options unless it is reasonably certain the lease will not be terminated early. Lease expense for operating leases consists of the lease payments plus any initial direct costs, primarily brokerage commissions, and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Adoption of ASU 2018-02 On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2018-02, Income Statement Reporting Comprehensive Income: Reclassification of Certain Tax effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (ASU 2018-02), which requires the reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for the stranded tax effects arising from the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. ASU 2018-02 modifies ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740), which requires businesses to adjust the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities upon a change in the tax law. ASC 740 specifies that changes in tax assets and liabilities related to the tax rate change must be presented in earnings, even when the corresponding deferred taxes relate to items initially recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income such as pension adjustments, gains or losses on cash flow hedges, foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities. The Company had no deferred tax assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2017, accordingly there were no stranded tax effects to reclassify and the adoption of ASU 2018-02 had no impact on the Companys financial statements. Adoption of ASU 2018-07 On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2018-07, Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2018-07), which aligns the accounting for share-based payments to nonemployees for goods and services with the requirements for accounting for share-based payments to employees under ASC 718 Compensation - Stock Compensation. ASU 2018-07 provides that nonemployee share-based payments are measured at the grant date at the fair value of the equity instruments to be provided to the nonemployee when the goods or services have been delivered. Prior to ASU 2018-07 nonemployee share-based payments were measured at the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instruments issued, whichever could be more reliably measured. 26 We adopted ASU 2018-07 using a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the implementation date for all nonemployee share-based payments that (1) have not been settled as of the adoption date and (2) nonemployee share-based payments for which a measurement date has not been established. We made no adjustment to retained earnings as a result of adopting ASU 2018-07. Use of Estimates: These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Because a precise determination of assets and liabilities, and correspondingly revenues and expenses, depends on future events, the preparation of financial statements for any period necessarily involves the use of estimates and assumptions, an example being assumptions in valuation of stock options. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates. These financial statements have, in managements opinion, been properly prepared within reasonable limits of materiality and within the framework of the accounting policies summarized below. Certain of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by our management, and such judgments are reflected in the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies, our management uses judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of estimates. Those estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts and agreements, our observance of market trends, information provided by our strategic partners and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates contained in our condensed consolidated financial statements Cash and Cash Equivalents The Companys policy is to present bank balances under cash and cash equivalents, which at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost or contributed value. Depreciation of furniture, software and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, and leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the lease term. The cost and related accumulated depreciation of equipment retired or sold are removed from the accounts and any differences between the undepreciated amount and the proceeds from the sale are recorded as a gain or loss on sale of equipment. Net Loss Per Share: Net loss per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares and common shares equivalents outstanding during the period. Going Concern The Companys financial statements have been prepared on the basis that it is a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has earned no revenue from operations in the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and has an accumulated deficit of $28,760,955 and $20,379,867 respectively. The Companys ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to develop additional sources of capital or ultimately acquire an entity which the Company hopes will become profitable at some time in the near future. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Management is seeking additional capital to finance the operations of the Company.