Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed Quantum Computing, Inc. (the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview The Company is focused on providing software tools and applications for quantum computers. We believe there is significant business opportunity in the quantum computing industry, and that the quantum computer has the potential to disrupt several global industries. Independent of when quantum computing delivers compelling performance advantage over classical computing, the software tools and applications necessary for accelerating real-world problems must be developed to deliver on quantum computings full promise. Quantum computing is a fundamentally new paradigm compared with conventional silicon-based computing, requiring a new and highly technical set of skills to create the software that will drive quantum results. Organizations seeking to gain advantage from the promise of quantum technology must acquire and develop skills in quantum mechanics, mathematics and physics, and a deep knowledge of the ever-changing quantum hardware. The pool of people with those skills today is limited and in high demand. In order to address the steep learning curve and highly particular skillset associated with quantum computing, the Company is developing quantum ready software applications and solutions for commercial and government entities looking to leverage the expected future performance of quantum computing. We are focused on being an enabler creating software that provide the advantages of advanced computing hardware for forward thinking clients. 1 By reducing the barriers to adoption for commercial and government entities in using quantum computing technologies to solve their most complex problems, we believe our products will accelerate quantum technology adoption similar to the adoption curve that has been witnessed with artificial intelligence. To this end, we are leveraging our collective expertise in finance, computing, mathematics and physics to develop a suite of applications that may enable global industries to utilize quantum computers, quantum annealers and digital simulators to improve their processes, profitability, and security. Products and Products in Development Qatalyst Qatalyst (formerly Mukai) is our answer to the current state of the quantum computing industry. As the industrys first publicly available Quantum Application Accelerator, Qatalyst enables developers to create and execute quantum-ready applications on conventional computers, while being ready to run on quantum computers where those systems achieve performance advantage. Qatalyst performs the complex problem transformations necessary to be executed on a variety of quantum platforms today, and users can call upon the same Qatalyst APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) to achieve optimization performance advantages on conventional computers using our cloud-based solution. Qatalyst dramatically reduces the time-to-quality results and the associated costs for both conventional and quantum computers. Unlike more common toolsets that require deep level quantum expertise to build new quantum problems and workflows, Qatalyst is not a tool kit, but a complete platform. It accelerates performance and results on classic and quantum computers, with no additional quantum programming or quantum computing expertise required. This is why it is unique in its approach to the quantum computing industry. Instead of invoking a team of quantum specialists to transform an optimization problem, an SME or programmer submits their current problem via a software API to the Qatalyst cloud-based platform. Qatalyst manages the workflow, optimizations, and results, without any further intervention by the user. Qatalyst provides a unique advantage to reduce applications development risks and costs by eliminating the need for scarce high-end quantum programmers. Qatalyst is integrated with the Amazon Cloud BRAKET API, offering access to multiple Quantum Processing Units (QPUs) including DWave, Rigetti, and IonQ. Qatalyst also integrates directly with IBMs QPUs. By using Qatalyst, application developers can run their applications on any or all of the available QPUs by merely selecting which QPU they prefer to run on based on the desired performance results of the application. We believe this provides a substantial advantage over any other toolkit or platform in the market today. These advantages are significant not just for application developers but for any company that is considering using or exploring quantum computing technology for business applications. Qatalyst also eliminates the need for the low-level hardware programming expertise required by toolkits. This programming is time consuming and must be updated constantly as QPUs evolve and change, resulting in significant development costs. Qatalyst automatically optimizes the same problem submitted by a SME for multiple Quantum and Conventional Processors. The SME or programmer selects one, or many, processing resources and the problem will be submitted by Qatalyst. This is an enormous advantage over any tool set in the market today. These advantages are significant not just for application developers but for any company that is considering using or exploring quantum computing technology for business applications. The Companys innovative Qatalyst software masks the complexity of quantum programming via the Q API, a powerful six call API that users can learn in a day. Instead of spending months or years developing new applications and workflows requiring complex and extremely low-level coding, users, workflows or applications can immediately submit a problem to Qatalyst within a day, using the same familiar constructs they use right now, via the Q API. Users have utilized Qatalysts simple API and familiar constructs to solve their first complex problem within a week, as compared to the 6-12 months associated with quantum software toolkits. 2 Qatalyst Features Today, SMEs can leverage the power of Qatalyst to solve high-value discrete optimization problems present in finance, bio/pharma, and cybersecurity. Currently, Qatalyst offers the following features: Quantum-ready engines tuned for complex computations. These engines automatically optimize, submit, and iterate to return excellent, diverse results for supply chain and other constrained optimization problems. Transparent abstraction from quantum hardware variance. Qatalyst eliminates the need to write low-level, assembly-type code to support different vendors quantum hardware architectures, such as D-Wave, Rigetti, IBM and ION-Q. The same problem can run seamlessly across all quantum types and architectures. Qatalyst Core: an engine that utilizes sophisticated mathematics, quantum transformation and iterative processing to find highly optimal answers across both classic and quantum computers. For example, LaGrange multipliers, which work to compress and simplify the problem prior to constraint optimization. The Core applies these advanced mathematical techniques, based on the type of problem and processing required. Q Graph: a powerful transformation engine that empowers SMEs to submit and analyze graph models as part of their complex optimizations. Q Graph accepts familiar graph models and functions including Clique Cover, Community Detection and Partitioning. Qontrol: a portal that provides administrative management tools for user administration, request control, statuses and alerts. Qontrol also enables system administrators and users to import Qatalyst results into popular analysis applications such as Excel or Tableau. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 vs. March 31, 2020 Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Total $ 0 100.0 % $ 0 100.0 % 0 % Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021 were $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0, or 0%. The lack of revenue is due to the fact that the Company has not yet sold any products or services to any customers. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0 or 0%. There was no cost of revenues recorded because the Company has not yet sold any products or services. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There was no gross margin because the Company has not yet sold any products or services. 3 Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2021 were $3,393,129 as compared with $1,738,392 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $1,654,676, or 95%. The increase in operating expenses is due in large part to the $964,819 increase in stock-based compensation, a $280,763 increase research and development expenses, partially offset by a $31,073 decrease in legal fees in the first three months of 2021 compared with the comparable period in 2020. In addition, changes in the number and composition of staff resulted in a $80,689 increase in salary and benefit expenses, and a $227,308 increase in consulting expenses, primarily related to increased sales and marketing efforts, compared to the comparable prior year period. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $3,391,746 as compared with a net loss of $698,179 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $2,693,568 or 644%. The increase in net loss is primarily due to the increase in operating expenses, noted above, plus a $615,188 decrease in interest expense largely associated with the mark to market repricing of a convertible promissory note derivative, granting warrants, and repricing existing warrants, and other financing related expenses recorded in the prior year period compared to the current year period. In addition, during the comparable prior year period, the net loss from operations was offset in part by $425,000 in other income from a legal settlement. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since commencing operations as Quantum Computing in February 2018, the Company has raised $19,259,904 through private placement of equity and $5,133,000 through private placements of Convertible Promissory Notes for a total of $24,392,904 in new investment. The Company has one SBA PPP bank loan in the amount of $218,371 but no bank lines of credit, and no long-term debt obligations. As of March 31, 2021, the Company had cash and equivalents of $13,765,848 on hand. The following table summarizes total current assets, liabilities and working capital at March 31, 2021, compared to December 31, 2020: March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Increase/ (Decrease) Current Assets $ 14,057,430 $ 15,237,095 $ (1,179,665 ) Current Liabilities $ 600,153 $ 693,207 $ (93,055 ) Working Capital (Deficit) $ 13,457,277 $ 14,543,888 $ (1,086,610 ) At March 31, 2021, we had working capital of $13,457,277 as compared to working capital of $14,543,888 at December 31, 2020, a decrease of $1,086,610. The decrease in working capital is primarily attributable to in the use of cash to pay for operating expenses and capital investments. Net Cash Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was $1,506,431 and $268,709, respectively. The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, was $3,391,746 and $698,179, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the twelve months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 were $4,043 and $3,258, respectively representing a $785 increase in investments for computer equipment in 2021 compared with the first three months of 2020. 4 Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $80,000 and cash flows provided in the same period of 2020 was $370,198. Cash flows provided in financing activities during the first thee-month period in 2021 were primarily attributable to issuance of common stock for the exercise of options and the exercise of warrants. The cash flow used in financing activities during the first three months of 2020 were related to the sale of a convertible promissory note, the conversion of convertible promissory notes to common stock and the exercise of warrants to purchase common stock. Previously, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. During the first three months of 2021, we have funded our operations through the use of cash on hand, coupled with funds received from the exercise of options and warrants. As of May 7, 2021, we had cash on hand of approximately $13,545,102. We have approximately $6,743 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll, employee benefits and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities will be the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2020. Certain of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by our management, and such judgments are reflected in the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies, our management uses judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of estimates. Those estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of market trends, information provided by our strategic partners and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates contained in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Use of Estimates: These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Because a precise determination of assets and liabilities, and correspondingly revenues and expenses, depends on future events, the preparation of financial statements for any period necessarily involves the use of estimates and assumption an example being assumptions in valuation of stock options. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates. These financial statements have, in managements opinion, been properly prepared within reasonable limits of materiality and within the framework of the accounting policies summarized below. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Companys policy is to present bank balances under cash and cash equivalents, which at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost or contributed value. Depreciation of furniture, software and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, and leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the lease term. The cost and related accumulated depreciation of equipment retired or sold are removed from the accounts and any differences between the undepreciated amount and the proceeds from the sale are recorded as a gain or loss on sale of equipment. 5 Net Loss Per Share: Net loss per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares and common shares equivalents outstanding during the period. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2021 and for fiscal 2020, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.