Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our consolidated financial statements included herein. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory reserves, impairment of goodwill, indefinite-lived and long-lived assets, pension and other post-retirement benefits, product warranty, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, valuation of common stock warrants, and share-based compensation. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our Common Stock. We Face Risks Arising From Acquisitions. We may pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. Risks in acquisition transactions include difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses into our operations and control environment, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing clients of the acquired entities, assumed or unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired businesses, the failure of counterparties to satisfy any obligations to indemnify us against liabilities arising from the acquired businesses, and unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired businesses. Fully integrating an acquired company or business into our operations may take a significant amount of time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with acquisitions and other strategic transactions. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the failure to realize the full economic value of a strategic transaction or the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of an acquisition. These risks could be heightened if we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a short period of time. We Could Be Forced To Pay Damages In Connection With Litigation Involving 350 Green. On September 9, 2015, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of Chicago, Illinois affirmed the ruling of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in the matter of JNS Power & Control Systems, Inc. (JNS) v. 350 Green, LLC in favor of JNS, which affirmed the sale of certain assets by our former subsidiary 350 Green to JNS and the assumption of certain 350 Green liabilities by JNS. On April 7, 2016, JNS amended the complaint to add the Company alleging an unspecified amount of lost revenues from the chargers, among other matters, caused by the defendants. JNS also seeks indemnity for its unspecified costs in connection with enforcing the asset purchase agreement dated April 13, 2013 between 350 Green and JNS in courts in New York and Chicago. As of December 31, 2017, the Company accrued a $750,000 liability in connection with its settlement offer to JNS. On February 2, 2018, the parties entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby the parties agreed to settle the litigation. The Company purchased back the EV chargers it previously sold to JNS for: (a) shares of Common Stock worth $600,000 with a price per share equal to $4.25 (the price per share of the Public Offering); (b) $50,000 cash payment within ten days of the closing of the Public Offering; and (c) $100,000 cash payment within six months following the closing of the Public Offering. The Public Offering closed on February 16, 2018. The Company issued 141,176 shares on March 16, 2018. The Company made the $50,000 payment on March 16, 2018. JNS filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit without prejudice on March 23, 2018 and the judge granted the motion on March 26, 2018. JNS will file a motion to convert the dismissal without prejudice to dismissal with prejudice within three business days of the $100,000 payment. On March 16, 2018, the Company issued 23,529 shares of Common Stock to JNS to be held in escrow as security for the $100,000 payment. At the time the $100,000 payment is made by the Company, the 23,529 shares currently held in escrow will be cancelled. 11 We Have Limited Insurance Coverage, and Any Claims Beyond Our Insurance Coverage May Result in Our Incurring Substantial Costs and a Diversion of Resources We hold employers liability insurance generally covering death or work-related injury of employees. We hold public liability insurance covering certain incidents involving third parties that occur on or in the premises of our Company. We hold directors and officers liability insurance. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel, or business interruption insurance. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover any claim for product liability, damage to our fixed assets or employee injuries. Any liability or damage to, or caused by, our facilities or our personnel beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. Our Future Success Depends, in Part, on the Performance and Continued Service of Our Officers. We presently depend to a great extent upon the experience, abilities and continued services of our management team, which consists of Mr. Calise (our CEO), Mr. Farkas (our Executive Chairman), and Mr. Feintuch (our Chief Operating Officer). The loss of services of Mr. Calise, Mr. Farkas, or Mr. Feintuch could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Failure to maintain our management team could prove disruptive to our daily operations, require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Future Success Depends, in Part, on Our Ability to Attract and Retain Highly Qualified Personnel. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We are in the process of building our management team. Among other positions, we need to hire a Chief Financial Officer with public company experience. Mr. Calise currently acts as our interim principal financial officer and our interim principal accounting officer. Although we intend to hire a permanent Chief Financial Officer soon, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our accounting controls may continue to be deficient unless we obtain the services of an experienced Chief Financial Officer who can help us address material weaknesses. In addition, expansion of our business and the management and operation of our Company will require additional managers and employees with industry experience, and our success will be highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel and other employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel. As our industry continues to evolve, competition for skilled personnel with the requisite experience will be significant. This competition may make it more difficult and expensive to attract, hire and retain qualified managers and employees. We Are in an Intensely Competitive Industry and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Be Able to Compete with Our Competitors Who May Have Greater Resources. We face strong competition from competitors in the EV charging services industry, including competitors who could duplicate our model. Many of these competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing and development resources and other capabilities than us. In addition, there are very few barriers to entry into the market for our services. There can be no assurance, therefore, that any of our current and future competitors, many of whom may have far greater resources, will not independently develop services that are substantially equivalent or superior to our services. Therefore, an investment in our Company is very risky and speculative due to the competitive environment in which we may operate. Our competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence and price. Furthermore, many of our competitors may be able to utilize substantially greater resources and economies of scale to develop competing products and technologies, divert sales away from us by winning broader contracts or hire away our employees by offering more lucrative compensation packages. In the event that the market for EV charging stations expands, we expect that competition will intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. In order to secure contracts successfully when competing with larger, well-financed companies, we may be forced to agree to contractual terms that provide for lower aggregate payments to us over the life of the contract, which could adversely affect our margins. Our failure to compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. 12 We Have Experienced Significant Customer Concentration in Recent Periods, And Our Revenue Levels Could Be Adversely Affected if Any Significant Customer Fails To Purchase Products From Us At Anticipated Levels. We are subject to customer concentration risk as a result of our reliance on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The relative magnitude and the mix of revenue from our largest customers have varied significantly quarter to quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2017, two customers have accounted for 29% of our revenues varying by period, to our Company. In addition, one customer accounted for 32% of total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017. The loss of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a Third Party Asserts That We Are Infringing Upon Its Intellectual Property, Whether Successful or Not, It Could Subject Us to Costly and Time-Consuming Litigation or Expensive Licenses, and Our Business May Be Harmed. The EV and EV charging industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, although we have acquired from other companies proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Intellectual property infringement claims against us could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from subscribing to our services or could expose us to litigation with respect to these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our services to our customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute services that do not infringe. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third partys rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, may significantly increase our operating expenses or require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. The Success of Our Business Depends in Large Part on Our Ability to Protect and Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue with respect to our currently pending patent applications, in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our currently issued patents and any patents that may issue in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure these actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available over the Internet. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in EV-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. Changes to Federal, State or International Laws or Regulations Applicable To Our Company Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations, including those with respect government incentives promoting fuel efficiency and alternate forms of energy, electric vehicles and others. These laws and regulations, and the interpretation or application of these laws and regulations, could change. Any reduction, elimination or discriminatory application of government subsidies and economic incentives because of policy changes, fiscal tightening or other reasons may result in diminished revenues from government sources and diminished demand for our products. In addition, new laws or regulations affecting our business could be enacted. These laws and regulations are frequently costly to comply with and may divert a significant portion of managements attention. If we fail to comply with these applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. 13 There are many federal, state and international laws that may affect our business, including measures to regulate charging systems, electric vehicles, and others. If we fail to comply with these applicable laws or regulations we could be subject to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. There are a number of significant matters under review and discussion with respect to government regulations which may affect the business we intend to enter and/or harm our customers, and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Ability to Use Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards May Be Limited. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $70.6 million. We generally are able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years. These NOLs may be offset against future taxable income through 2035, if not utilized before that time. However, our ability to utilize the NOLs is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Section 382). Section 382 generally restricts the use of NOLs after an ownership change. An ownership change generally occurs if, among other things, the stockholders (or specified groups of persons) who own, have owned or are treated as owning, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our stock increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these persons over a three-year rolling period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income that we may offset with NOLs. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOLs. The rules of Section 382 are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Because of our numerous capital raises, uncertainty exists as to whether we may have undergone an ownership change in the past or will undergo one as a result of the various transactions discussed herein or other future transactions. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that our NOLs will be fully available or utilizable. If We Fail to Establish and Maintain an Effective System of Internal Control, We May Not Be Able to Report Our Financial Results Accurately or Prevent Fraud. Any Inability to Report and File Our Financial Results Accurately and Timely Could Harm Our Reputation and Adversely Impact the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. As a result, our small size and any current internal control deficiencies may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and access to capital. We have also experienced complications reporting as a result of material weaknesses and have at times been delinquent in our reporting obligations. We have carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure