Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed Quantum Computing, Inc. (the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Quantum Computing Inc. (QCI or the Company) is a full-stack quantum solutions company. Our mission is to be the democratizing force that brings quantum solutions to business, academia, and government clients. Our solutions enable subject matter experts (SMEs) and end users to get answers to critical business problems today, using the computing solutions that best deliver those results. Since our formation in 2018, the Company has focused on providing software tools and applications for several commercially available quantum computers and we remain committed to that goal. However, following the June 2022 acquisition of QPhoton, Inc. (QPhoton) and its associated IP and engineering team, the Company is now able to provide full-stack quantum information services. The core of our quantum information services today is our Entropy Quantum Computing (EQC) technology. We have built room-temperature, photonic quantum information processing systems underpinned by a series of patented and patent pending technologies. We believe this will enable us to develop and produce multiple generations of quantum information processors with increasing computational power, capacity, and speed. Such systems are expected to deliver compelling performance advantages over classical computational machines and will eventually be able to solve complex problems more effectively and efficiently in terms of scalability, power consumption, and cost compared with current high-performance computing technology. This technology, supported by professional services through our Quantum Solutions offering, helps our clients benefit from the technology today. In addition, our leading-edge photonic technology and engineering teams will enable QCI to develop quantum LIDAR and sensing systems, imaging systems, quantum-secured network solutions, and photonic quantum chips. These important technologies are already under development today. 2 Our short-term core business model will be based on generating revenue from selling access to our advanced quantum data processing systems via the cloud, with the long-term model focused on selling desktop or rack-sized quantum devices and systems to commercial and individual users. We currently offer access to our quantum computing machines via our own in-house cloud service and plan to eventually offer access through other commercial service providers. In the near term, we plan to generate revenue from our Quantum Solutions team, collaborating directly with customers to take them from problem formulation to solution. This end-to-end support empowers a spectrum of clientele, from users with little to no experience in quantum processing to advanced users capable of independent problem formulation and execution through the service. The Company already produces its own lithium niobate nanophotonic circuits and has plans to scale production to meet projected demand. The Company has announced plans to construct and operate a new state-of-the-art quantum nanophotonics technology manufacturing and research center, which we believe could be the worlds first dedicated quantum-photonic chip manufacturer. The plan for the facility is to produce a range of lithium niobate nanophotonic circuits for internal use in our own product lines and for general sale in the market. This initiative is expected to benefit from the US CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (the CHIPS Act), which allocates $52 billion for the revitalization and onshoring of semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S. The CHIPS Act funding includes $39 billion in manufacturing incentives and $13 billion to support new research and development. QCI is focused on providing integrated quantum information acquisition, transmission, and processing solutions, including both the user interface software and the quantum hardware. With our proprietary full-stack technologies that are designed using our solution-oriented system architectures, we believe we will have a competitive advantage in the market. With an integrated engineering team working across multiple quantum technology domains, we believe we are uniquely positioned to leverage our expertise in software, hardware, and nanophotonic circuits to develop quantum services and products, from quantum chip design and manufacturing through cloud delivery and eventually sales of hardware systems. We believe this full-stack development approach offers both the fastest and lowest risk path to building commercially valuable quantum machines. Strategy QCIs strategy has evolved to become a full stack quantum solutions company. When QCI was formed quantum computing was a fundamentally new paradigm compared with conventional computing, requiring a new and highly technical set of skills to create the hardware and software to drive quantum results. The pool of people with those skills today is limited and in high demand. In addition, the predominant quantum software development approach, using one or more toolkits (SDKs) to create a quantum computing program is slow and costly, and therefore poorly suited for non-quantum experts attempting to solve real world problems. Moreover, many types of quantum computing hardware require delicate and expensive cryogenic isolation systems just to maintain stability, which makes it difficult for users to interact with quantum computing systems. While quantum computing is generally still used for research and science experiments, the user community is demanding greater capabilities from quantum systems, leading to frustration and comparisons to the similar market characteristics faced by artificial intelligence in its early days high expectations but low performance results. QCIs acquisition of QPhoton, combined with QCIs significant IP work that culminated in the development of the Companys Qatalyst software, enables the Company to currently offer room temperature quantum computation systems through cloud services now, as well as affordable, turn-key products in the future. This combination of quantum hardware and software will address the steep learning curve and highly particular skillsets generally associated with quantum information processing, which have historically represented significant barriers to adoption for companies and government entities looking to leverage novel quantum computing capabilities to solve problems. 3 For the past 45 years or so, silicon-based processor manufacturers have been able to double their processing power every 18 to 24 months, a phenomenon known in the computer industry as Moores Law. Recently, the computer processor industry has found it increasingly difficult to offer faster, more powerful processors due to fundamental physical effects limiting further size reduction of transistors, according to Were not prepared for the end of Moores Law , MIT Technology Review, February 2020; https:// www.technologyreview.com/2020/02/24/905789/ (Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, this website is not incorporated by reference in this prospectus, and you should not consider information on this website to be part of this prospectus). Despite this progress in transistors and computing power, many of the worlds most important computational problems are still considered impractical to solve with classical computers of today and the foreseeable future. With this in mind, quantum computing represents a potential alternative approach to the hard limits now being approached by conventional computers that utilize silicon-based processors. This is because quantum computers apply the properties of quantum physics to operate in a fundamentally different way. Classical computer chips use binary bits (ones and zeros) to represent information. Quantum computers utilize qubits, which leverage some of the properties of quantum physics to potentially process computations that would otherwise be intractably difficult using classical computers. Research suggests that quantum computers may be ideally suited to run optimization algorithms, where further advancements in approaches and quantum computing hardware could result in computational benefit over currently used conventional systems. See Quantum Computing for Finance: Overview and Prospects, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405428318300571 (Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, this website is not incorporated by reference in this prospectus, and you should not consider information on this website to be part of this prospectus) . The ability to solve challenging computational problems in a reasonable period of time is of particular interest in compute-heavy fields that include, but are not limited to: big data, artificial intelligence, healthcare, and cybersecurity. We believe these are natural markets for quantum computing, due to the immense compute power required to process large data sets, which have experienced rapid growth in size and complexity in recent years. Products and Products in Development Qatalyst QCIs evolution into full-stack quantum computing company was enabled by the prior creation of its Qatalyst software. The Qatalyst development platform is QCIs answer to the broader industrys current approach to quantum software development, which relies on highly trained scientists working with SDKs at the circuit level, which is analogous to programming in assembly language. Unlike SDKs, which require deep level quantum expertise to create quantum workflows, Qatalyst is not a tool kit, but a complete platform. Qatalyst enables developers to create and execute quantum-ready applications on conventional computers, while also being ready to run on multiple quantum computers. Qatalyst performs the complex problem transformations necessary to be executed on a variety of quantum processor platforms today. Users can call upon the same Qatalyst APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) on conventional computers to achieve optimization performance advantages using our cloud-based solution. 4 Qatalyst dramatically reduces the required time, and the associated costs, for obtaining results from both conventional and quantum computers. It accelerates performance and results on classic and quantum computers, with no additional quantum programming or quantum computing expertise required. Qatalyst manages the workflow, optimizations, and results, without any further intervention by the user. Qatalyst provides a unique advantage to reduce applications development risks and costs by eliminating the need for scarce high-end quantum programmers. Building a quantum program with an SDK is time consuming and the resulting program must be updated constantly as QPUs evolve and change, resulting in significant development costs. Qatalyst automatically optimizes the same problem submitted by a subject matter expert (SME) for multiple quantum and classical processors. With Qatalyst, users only have to learn to use six API calls, which can be learned in a day by most programmers. Instead of spending months or years developing new applications and workflows requiring complex and extremely low-level coding with SDKs, users, workflows or applications can immediately submit a problem to Qatalyst within a day, using the same familiar constructs they use right now, via the Qatalyst API. Users have utilized Qatalysts simple API and familiar constructs to solve their first complex problem within a week, as compared to the 6-12 months associated with quantum software toolkits. Qatalyst is integrated with the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud-based Braket service (AWS Braket), which offers access to multiple Quantum Processing Units (QPUs) including Rigetti and IonQ. Qatalyst also integrates directly with IBMs QPUs and with QCIs own EQC and RQC systems. By using Qatalyst, users can run their applications on any or all of the available QPUs by merely selecting which QPU they prefer to run on based on the desired performance results of the application. In addition, Qatalyst contains QCIs proprietary QGraph and QAmplify tools. QGraph is a powerful transformation engine that enables SMEs to submit and analyze graph models as part of their complex optimizations. QGraph accepts familiar graph models and functions including Clique Cover, Community Detection and Partitioning. QAmplify is a patented software technology that expands the processing power of any current quantum computer by as much as twenty times. QAmplify is capable of supercharging any quantum computer to solve real-world realistic business problems, and is designed to work on gate model quantum computers as well as quantum annealers. Entropy Quantum Computer The core of QCIs hardware offering is the Entropy Quantum Computer (EQC). The EQC leverages the principle of open quantum systems. The EQC differs substantially from todays Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ) computers offered by most of our competitors. Quantum systems are naturally open, meaning, they inevitably interact with their surrounding environment. However, as a result of these interactions, the wavefunctions describing those systems collapse, which is the point where quantum information is lost and the NISQ system decoheres which causes significant processing challenges for NISQ architectures. The EQC works by coupling photonic states to their surrounding environment (the Entropy), including quantum fluctuations of the electromagnetic vacuum. This approach runs completely counter to those being developed with other atom / ion-based NISQ systems. The quantum vacuum fluctuations are ubiquitous and can be used to capture every possible outcome in a very large system with many configurations, simultaneously, making the approach ideal for fast and accurate computations in optimization problems. 5 Todays NISQ computers are designed to produce closed quantum systems in pristine quantum states that are isolated from the environment, but there is a significant engineering cost to protect quantum information from the environment to eliminate noise. This is why NISQ quantum computers usually require cryogenic cooling, pure vacuum, vibration isolation and electromagnetic shielding. Those requirements introduce high cost, complex maintenance, and ongoing stability issues. Our EQC machines are not subject to those environmental isolation requirements and can function effectively in normal device settings (desktop or rack sizes, room temperature, battery-powered, turn-key, etc.). In addition to the Companys announcement of Dirac 1, our first commercially-available EQC, QCI plans to release a series of additional EQC products starting in 2023. This family of products will include next generations of EQC that further expand the scale and capabilities of the EQC to broader, larger, and more complex optimization problems. Developing this family of products will involve improving the size and capacity of the EQC machines by continuing to innovate in the number, quality and operational fidelity of the qubits. This will include developing technology that operates using quantum digits (qudits) instead of quantum bits (qubits). A qudit-based computer may prove better at tackling complex problems than qubit-based computers, and may allow more computational power with fewer components. EQC Subscription Service The combination of the Entropy Quantum Computer and Qatalyst has enabled QCI to launch its cloud-based quantum computing solutions on a subscription basis. Subscriptions are offered on an annual, quarterly, and proof of concept (short term) basis with discounts provided for multiyear commitments. Subscription prices are based on the expected usage from each customer. A dedicated system subscription (currently offered as the Dirac Dedicated Subscription), is also available that provides unlimited usage within the SLA included in our agreement. QCI anticipates that our subscription service will be competitive with the quantum computing subscription services offered by our competitors, such as IBM, IonQ and Quantinuum. However, we believe our subscription service will offer significant computational advantage that will differentiate it from our competitors. The Dirac Dedicated Subscription will provide a customer with exclusive use of a Dirac EQC system from our datacenter without ever having to wait for other users to complete their work nor having to worry about the time it will take to solve their problem. QCI is also offering potential clients the opportunity to run problems on our EQC on an hourly-rate basis to demonstrate our computational value prior to entering into a longer subscription. Our Dirac Introductory Rate, which can be used for proof of concept evaluation, is an example of when this rate may apply. Some companies utilize a per transaction-based model. Quantum computers typically use shots (a shot is a single processing submission or run) to measure usage on their machines and per shot models typically cost a small fraction of a cent. Most quantum problems require hundreds of thousands of shots. While the cost per shot is very low, the cost to solve a problem can quickly rise to hundreds or thousands of dollars. AWS is one of the larger per shot providers utilizing their AWS Braket services for companies including IonQ, Rigetti, Oxford Quantum Circuits, and QuEra. Usage of the Dirac EQC is done using a problem solution model, which is different from most other quantum computers. Rather than measure the number of shots made by our system; we solve the problem by finding the lowest ground state energy and measure the completion of the solution in the number of seconds or minutes it takes to complete solving the problem. While subscription sales will be the primary strategy moving forward we have not ruled out providing a per usage-based model by partnering with per shot providers such as AWS Braket and Strangeworks. Initially the EQC subscription services will all be hosted at the Companys data center in Hoboken, New Jersey. As usage grows, we may utilize other data centers including Amazon Web Services (AWS) for datacenter services. Many large computing and datacenter companies like, Google and Microsoft also sell access to third party Quantum Computers over their networks on a commission basis. While we are focused on selling subscriptions on Dirac in our own datacenter, there may be a time where we also provide subscriptions through Google, Microsoft, and Amazon through their Marketplaces. 6 In addition to shared subscription services and dedicated subscription services, we intend in the future to provide to customers an on-premise implementation of the Dirac EQC as customer demand grows and our service organization matures. There are multiple markets which will require this type of delivery including: the United States Government, United States Military and European Financial Organizations, where European laws require customer data to be always be in the control of the financial institutions. There are only a few on premise implementations of quantum computers today and they require commitments of tens of millions of dollars. While pricing has not been determined for the Dirac on-premise implementation, we expect it will be very competitive with the few on-premise quantum implementations available today from other firms. As a full stack quantum solutions provider, while selling subscriptions in some manner to Dirac EQCs will be the cornerstone of our business model, providing professional services or quantum solutions support will likely be needed in many cases, especially in the beginning of a customers quantum journey. We partner today with large management consulting companies as a way to scale our business and we expect that consulting partners will continue to grow in numbers and as a percentage of our customers. In addition, we plan to always provide a Quantum Solutions offering for customers that prefer to work directly with a full stack provider and customers who are using cutting edge technologies that may not have become supported yet by our consulting partners. As we evolve the LiDAR and sensing systems, imaging systems, and quantum-secured networking technologies into products, the models described above will be reused to evaluate the best pricing and routes to market for each new product. Some will likely use the existing direct sale model that we are using for Dirac, some may use an OEM model for inclusion in other companies products, and others may be sold through 1 or 2 tier distribution. Each product will be evaluated for the best route to market to maximize the shareholder value based upon their individual product attributes. Reservoir Quantum Computer (RQC) Reservoir computing is a framework for computation derived from recurrent neural network theory, which maps input signals into higher dimensional computational spaces through the dynamics of a fixed, highly non-linear and complex system called a reservoir. The input signal is fed into the reservoir, which is treated as a black box. A simple readout mechanism is trained to read the state of the reservoir and convert it to the desired output. There are several key benefits to this framework. The first key benefit of this framework is that training is performed only at the readout stage, as the reservoir dynamics are fixed. This makes the data training process very fast, since there is no recursive back projection of trained data through the reservoir. The second is that the computational power of naturally available systems, both classical and quantum mechanical, can be conveniently utilized to reduce the effective computational cost. The third is to significantly reduce the total power consumption, by off-loading complex and costly kernel functions to optics domains to achieve speed-of-light processing with extreme parallelism, ultralow power, and nearly no heat deposition. We plan to release a hybrid photonic-electronic machine for reservoir computing in late 2022, which will be made available through the Qatalyst platform. 7 Quantum Photonic Applications The acquisition of QPhoton has broadened the Companys technology portfolio and enables us to develop a group of closely related products based on a common core photonic technology. Products in development include: Quantum Photonic Applications The acquisition of QPhoton has broadened the Companys technology portfolio and enables us to develop a group of closely related products, such as the EQC and RQC, based on our common core photonic technology. Products in development include: Quantum Optical Chips Optical chips will ultimately provide the greatest scalability and performance advantages for quantum information processing, sensing and imaging. The Company is actively working on the specification and design for a dedicated quantum optical chip fabrication facility to develop and produce Lithium Niobate optical chips (Quantum Chips) for quantum information processing and other single photon detection and sensing applications. The Company believes there is an opportunity to benefit from the recently authorized CHIPS Act and will take steps to establish a U.S.-based chip facility in 2023. The Company is evaluating multiple options for a facility site, as well as potential federal, state and regional funding incentives to help finance the project and advance quantum technology innovation, but has not made a final decision. Construction of such a fabrication facility for the Quantum Chips may take several years and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise the necessary funding. Quantum Imaging One of the most exciting opportunities in development involves leveraging the ability to count single photons and filter their associated wave functions precisely to obtain optical imaging through otherwise opaque and dense materials. At a minimum, quantum imaging will be a powerful supplement to modern reconstructed computerized tomography (CT) imaging applications, where tissue damage from high energy radiation can and needs to be avoided. Optical chips will ultimately provide the greatest scalability and performance advantages for quantum information processing, sensing and imaging. When all of the critical optical components can be embedded on a fully integrated chip, the efficiency and fidelity of the photonic quantum technologies will be fully realized. A prototype has been built and is currently undergoing testing by the Company. Cybersecurity Quantum Networks and Quantum Authentication The Cybersecurity field has been aware for some time of the potential threats and benefits of quantum computing resulting from the expectation that quantum computers will eventually have the capability to can break any of the currently utilized non-quantum-based encryption methods. However, effective cybersecurity goes well beyond encryption for protection. Effective cybersecurity requires a holistic approach to protecting the enterprise. The Company believes that our quantum computing capabilities may have applications in encryption. However, initially we are applying our quantum technologies to create secure transport layers (quantum networks) and endpoints (quantum authentication) which will contribute greatly to the cybersecurity domain, beyond encryption. QCI has several patents in the area of quantum-based technologies for protection of data at rest and in quantum private communication. QCI plans to begin commercial development of quantum networking products in 2023 and partnerships are actively being explored. Quantum Remote Sensing QLiDAR Our Quantum LiDAR (QLiDAR) can see through dense fog and provide image fidelity at great distances and through difficult environments such as snow, ice, and water. Once again, by leveraging the power of quantum mechanics and single photon detection, LiDAR systems can be greatly enhanced in their ability to measure at improved resolution and distances as well as extend these photonic signals to applications in vibrometry for material stress analysis, particle size analysis, and potential remote sensing from aircraft, drones and even satellites. 8 Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 vs. September 30, 2021 Revenues For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services 37,646 100 % 0 0 % 100 % Total $ 37,646 100 % $ 0 100.0 % 100 % Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2022 were $37,646 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There is no revenue comparison for the comparable prior year period because the Company had not yet sold any products or services. All revenue in the current reporting period is derived from professional services provided to multiple commercial customers under multi-month contracts. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was $24,891 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There is no cost of revenues comparison for the comparable prior year period because the Company had not yet sold any products or services. Cost of revenues for the current reporting period consists primarily of salary expense. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was $12,755 or 34% as compared with 0% for the comparable prior year period. There is no gross margin comparison for the comparable prior year period because the Company had not yet sold any products or services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2022 were $6,846,750 as compared with $4,779,988 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $2,066,762 or 43%. The increase in operating expenses is due in large part to the $644,570 increase in salary expense due to changes in the number and composition of staff, $2,096,240 increase in other SG&A costs, $653,432 increase in research and development expenses related primarily to hiring additional technical staff, offset in part by a $4,639 decrease in consultant and professional services expense, and a $1,322,841 decrease in stock-based compensation compared with the comparable prior year period. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was $7,569,280 as compared with a net loss of $4,777,957 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $2,791,323 or 58%. The increase in net loss is primarily due to the increase in operating expenses, noted above, as well as $241,445 increase in interest expense related to preferred stock dividends and interest on term loan, recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared with interest expense of $0 during the comparable prior year period. 9 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 vs. September 30, 2021 Revenues For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services $ 134,370 100.0 % 0 0 % 0 % Total $ 134,370 100.0 % $ 0 100.0 % 0 % Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 were $134,370 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There is no revenue comparison for the comparable prior year period because the Company had not yet sold any products or services. Revenue in the current reporting period is derived from professional services provided to multiple commercial customers under multi-month contracts. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $41,692 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There is no cost of revenues comparison for the comparable prior year period because the Company had not yet sold any products or services. Cost of revenues for the current reporting period consists primarily of salary expense. Gross Margin Gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $92,678 or 69% as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There is no gross margin comparison for the comparable prior year period because the Company had not yet sold any products or services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 were $18,443,966 as compared with $12,501,818 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $5,942,148 or 48%. The increase in operating expenses is due to the $1,346,326 increase in research and development expenses offset by a $2,444,350 decrease in stock-based compensation expense in the first nine months of 2022 compared with the comparable period in 2021. In addition, changes in the number and composition of staff resulted in a $2,367,269 increase in salary and benefit expenses, $4,576,852 increase in other SG&A costs and a $96,051 increase in consulting expenses compared to the comparable prior year period, largely related to an increased focus on sales and marketing. There was an increase in legal fees of $2,207,895 in the nine months ended September 30, 2022 compared with the comparable period in 2021 due in large part to the costs of the merger with QPhoton. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $19,807,546 as compared with a net loss of $12,278,422 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $7,529,124 or 61%. The increase in net loss is primarily due to the increase in operating expenses, noted above, as well as $1,501,445 increase in interest expense related to dividends and amortization of the Original Issue Discount for the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, Warrants and Investor Note, and interest accrued on loans, recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 compared with interest expense of $0 during the comparable prior year period, and $218,371 decrease in other income associated with the forgiveness of the SBA PPP Loan during the three months ended September 30, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since commencing operations as Quantum Computing in February 2018, the Company has raised $27,759,904 through private placement of equity and $12,633,000 through private placements of Convertible Promissory Notes and other debt for a total of $40,392,904 in new investment. The Company has no line of credit, and $8,250,000 in short and long-term debt obligations outstanding. As of September 30, 2022, the Company had cash and equivalents of $10,381,376 on hand. 10 The following table summarizes total current assets, liabilities and working capital at September 30, 2022, compared to December 31, 2021: September 30, 2022 December 31, 2021 Increase/(Decrease) Current Assets $ 10,794,907 $ 17,221,654 $ (6,426,747 ) Current Liabilities $ 3,626,151 $ 1,082,298 $ 2,543,853 Working Capital (Deficit) $ 7,168,756 $ 16,139,357 $ (8,970,601 ) At September 30, 2022, we had working capital of $7,168,756 as compared to working capital of $16,139,357 at December 31, 2021, a decrease of $8,970,601. The decrease in working capital is primarily attributable to the use of cash to pay for operating expenses, capital investments, including the Note Purchase Agreement with QPhoton, and the costs relating to the merger with QPhoton. Net Cash Net cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $11,565,125 and $4,863,392, respectively. The net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, was $19,807,546 and $12,278,422, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 were $86,237,313 and $11,415. The increase in investment in the current period is primarily due to the merger with QPhoton. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $91,445,157 compared with $111,567 during the same period of 2021. Cash flows provided in financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 were attributable to the acquisition of QPhoton, the amortization of the original issue discount for the Series A Convertible Preferred stock, and the Streeterville Unsecured Note. The cash flow provided by financing activities during the period ended September 30, 2021 was primarily attributable to issuance of common stock for the exercise of options and the exercise of warrants. Previously, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. During the first nine months of 2022, we have funded our operations primarily through the use of cash on hand. As of November 11, 2022, we had cash on hand of approximately $8,556,768. We have approximately $94,772 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll, employee benefits and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities will be the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Certain of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by our management, and such judgments are reflected in the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies, our management uses judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of estimates. Those estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of market trends, information provided by our strategic partners and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates contained in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. 11 Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Revenue from time and materials-based contracts is recognized as the direct hours worked during the period times the contractual hourly rate, plus direct materials and other direct costs as appropriate, plus negotiated materials handling burdens, if any. Revenue from units-based contracts is recognized as the number of units delivered or performed during the period times the contractual unit price. Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognized as work is performed with estimated profits recorded on a percentage of completion basis. The Company has no cost reimbursement (cost-plus) type contracts at this time. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and for fiscal 2021, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. Critical Accounting Estimates We have identified the following critical accounting estimates. An accounting estimate is critical if it (a) requires Company management to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate, and also (b) Company management reasonably could have used different estimates in the current period, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, would have a material impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition or results of operations. The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of stock options and derivatives. The Black-Scholes model, developed in 1973, is a differential equation which requires five input variables, the strike price of an option, the current stock price, the time to expiration, the risk-free rate, and the volatility of the Company common stock. The Black-Scholes model is widely used for pricing options but it does rely on certain assumptions about the market which may not be correct over time. Specifically, No dividends are paid out during the life of the option. Markets are random (i.e., market movements cannot be predicted). There are no transaction costs in buying the option. The risk-free rate and volatility of the underlying asset are known and constant. The returns of the underlying asset are normally distributed. The option is European and can only be exercised at expiration. To the extent that any of these assumptions is not correct, that could result in the over or under pricing of the stock options involved. The assumption that the risk-free rate (the Company uses the one-year US Treasury Bill rate as a proxy for the risk-free rate) can vary over time, and if the T-Bill rate varies substantially over the life of the stock option that could affect the pricing. Similarly, the volatility of the Companys common stock, also known as the Beta, has moved within a limited range over the past year, but the volatility of any security can change over time, which would affect the option pricing calculation. Another critical estimate relating to option pricing is the default rate, which means the estimate of granted options that will either expire unexercised, or be forfeited, over the life of the stock options. If the Companys estimate of the default rate turns out to be substantially different from the actual, experienced default rate, that could result in over or under estimating the total option expense. The Black-Scholes model is not the only available approach for pricing stock options, the Company could have used a Binomial pricing model or a Monte Carlo simulation model. However, there is no assurance that either a Binomial or Monte Carlo pricing approach would be more accurate than the Black-Scholes model over time. Moreover, both the Binomial model, which calculates the price of an option at each point in time during the option period, or the Monte Carlo model, which simulates the possible movements in future stock prices and uses them to calculate the option value, rely on critical assumptions. The Binomial model assumes that stock markets are perfectly efficient, which may not hold for all periods of time. The Monte Carlo simulation model assumes changes in stock prices over time cannot be predicted from the historical trends (known as a random walk), which also may not hold for all periods. 12 Another area of critical accounting estimates involves determining the fair market value and useful life of the intangible assets acquired by the Company through the merger with QPhoton. In the absence of market pricing for the intangible assets, the Company relied on comparison with similar transactions to arrive at estimates of value as well as useful life. The Company will perform periodic assessments of the intangible assets for impairment, but if any of the initial estimates are incorrect, that could result in a calculation of amortization expense that is too high or too low.