Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and information about revenue and long-lived assets attributable to certain geographic regions is included in Note 2 , Revenue and Note 3, Balance Sheet Information , respectively, to the consolidated financial statements and risks attendant to our foreign operations is set forth below in Item 1A Risk Factors. Seasonality 8 Table of Contents As is typical in our industry, we generally have the greatest demand for our products and services in the fourth quarter of each calendar year, or our fiscal third quarter. We usually experience the lowest demand for our products and services in the first and second quarters of each calendar year, or our fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal first quarter, respectively. Backlog We believe that product backlog has not been a meaningful indicator of net revenue that can be expected for any period. Our products are manufactured based on forecasts of customer demand and we work with our manufacturers and suppliers to support increases and decreases in demand. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. Product orders are confirmed and, in most cases, shipped to customers within four to six weeks. More complex systems and product configurations often have longer lead times, sometimes as much as 26 weeks. Much of the product backlog is from these more complex systems and typically increases at the end of each fiscal quarter, with these products typically being shipped in the following quarter. Product backlog at any point in time may not translate into net revenue in any subsequent period, as unfilled orders can generally be canceled at any time by the customer. Executive Officers and Management Team Following are the names and positions of our management team as of June 22, 2020 , including a brief account of the business experience of each. Name Position with Quantum James J. Lerner President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board J. Michael Dodson Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth King Chief Revenue Officer Lewis Moorehead Chief Accounting Officer Regan MacPherson Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Compliance Officer and Secretary Don Martella Senior Vice President, Engineering James J. Lerner, 50, was appointed as President and CEO of the Company, effective July 1, 2018, and was appointed Chairman of the Board on August 7, 2018. He also serves on the Companys Board. Mr. Lerner has previously served as Vice President and Chief Operating Officer at Pivot3 Inc. from March 2017 to June 2018, and Chief Revenue Officer from November 2016 to March 2017. Prior to Pivot3, from March 2014 to August 2015, Mr. Lerner served as President of Cloud Systems and Solutions at Seagate Technology Public Limited Company. Prior to Seagate, Mr. Lerner served in various executive roles at Cisco Systems, Inc., including most recently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Cloud & Systems Management Technology Group. Before beginning his career as a technology company executive, Mr. Lerner was a Senior Consultant at Andersen Consulting. Since 2011, Mr. Lerner has served on the Board of Trustees of Astia, a global not-for-profit organization built on a community of men and women dedicated to the success of women-led, high-growth ventures, and is currently serving as the Chair of the Board of Trustees. Mr. Lerner earned a Bachelor of Arts in Quantitative Economics and Decision Sciences from U.C. San Diego. J. Michael Dodson, 59, was appointed Chief Financial Officer effective May 31, 2018. He was also appointed interim Chief Executive Officer, a position in which he served until James J. Lerner joined the Company on July 1, 2018. From August 2017 to May 2018, Mr. Dodson served as the Chief Financial Officer of Greenwave Systems. Prior to joining Greenwave Systems, Mr. Dodson served as the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer at Mattson Technology, Inc. from 2012 to 2017. He joined Mattson as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in 2011. Prior to joining Mattson, Mr. Dodson served as Chief Financial Officer at four global public technology companies and Chief Accounting Officer for an S&P 500 company. Mr. Dodson started his career with Ernst & Young in San Jose, California. Since July 2013, he has served on the Board of Directors of Sigma Designs, Inc., a provider of system-on-chip solutions, including as Lead Independent Director since January 2014 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2015. He has also served on Board of Directors of A10 Network since February 2020 and was named Chairman of their Audit Committee in June 2020. In addition, Mr. Dodson serves as a director of two private entities: a charitable organization and a privately held for-profit company. He holds a B.B.A. degree with dual majors in Accounting and Information Systems Analysis and Design from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 9 Table of Contents Elizabeth King, 62, has served as Quantums Chief Revenue Officer since March 2019. Prior to Quantum, from January 2017 to February 2019, she was Vice President, Go-to-Market & Enablement, HPC & AI at HPE. She joined HPE as part of HPEs acquisition of SGI, where she served as SVP of worldwide sales from January 2014 through December 2016. Prior to HPE/SGI, she was vice president of strategic alliances for IBM and global systems integrators at Juniper Networks from June 2010 to January 2014. Prior to Juniper, she was vice president and general manager of the Hitachi Server Group of Hitachi Data Systems. She also held key senior sales, business development and operations roles at Nokia (formerly Alcatel-Lucent), Oracle (formerly Sun Microsystems), Raytheon, and Texas Instruments. Ms. King holds an MBA with honors from the University of Dallas and a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering from Lehigh University. Lewis Moorehead, 48, has served as our Chief Accounting Officer since October 2018. Prior to joining Quantum, Mr. Moorehead was the Director of Finance, Accounting and Tax at Carvana, Co., a publicly traded on-line retailer, from November 2016 to October 2018. From September 2004 to October 2016, he served as Managing Partner at Quassey, an investment firm. While at Quassey, he also served as Vice President of Finance and Principal Accounting Officer at Limelight Networks, a NASDAQ-listed global content delivery network and SaaS provider, from March 2010 to August 2013. He has also held finance and accounting positions at eTelecare Global Solutions, Rivers and Moorehead PLLC, Intelligentias, Inc., American Express and PricewaterhouseCoopers. He holds a Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.), cum laude, in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater. Regan MacPherson, 57, joined Quantum in October 2019 as Chief Legal & Compliance Officer. Prior to joining Quantum, she was the Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer at Marvell Semiconductor, Inc. from June 2017 to October 2019. Ms. MacPherson served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Seagate Technology, PLC from March 2016 to June 2017. Ms. MacPherson also served as Vice President and Interim General Counsel from August 2015 to March 2016, Deputy General Counsel from September 2013 to August 2015, in addition to varying roles of increasing responsibility from July 2005 to September 2013, at Seagate Technology plc. Ms. MacPherson holds a Juris Doctor from Southwestern Law School and a Bachelor of Arts in political science from San Francisco State University. Don Martella, 52, joined Quantum in August 2006 as Vice President, Tape Automation Engineering in connection with Quantums acquisition of ADIC. In April 2011, he assumed his current role as Senior Vice President of Engineering. In that capacity he is responsible for our research and development and advanced manufacturing activities. Before joining Quantum, Mr. Martella held leadership positions in R&D and Quality at ADIC; and engineering and management roles at Oracle (formerly StorageTek) in the tape business. Mr. Martella holds a master's in business administration and a Bachelor of Science in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Colorado. Employees As of March 31, 2020, we had 829 employees. Available Information We were founded in 1980 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at https://www.quantum.com generally when such reports are available on the SEC website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this Annual Report, before investing in any of our securities. The occurrence of any single risk or any combination of risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity, or competitive position, and consequently, the value of our securities. The material adverse effects include, but are not limited to, not growing our revenue or market share at the pace that they have grown historically or at all, our revenue and market share fluctuating on a quarterly and annual basis, an extension of our history of losses and a failure to become profitable, not achieving the revenue and net income (loss) guidance that we provide, and harm to our reputation and brand. The recent COVID-19 pandemic could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have impacted and will continue to impact our workforce and operations, and those of our strategic partners, customers, suppliers and logistics providers. These impacts have included and may include under-absorbed overhead, increased logistics and other costs and decreased product output. While our third-party partners are all currently operational, in some cases with exemptions from government restrictions, this is subject to change based on evolving conditions related to the pandemic. The effects of the pandemic are uncertain and difficult to predict, but may include: Further disruptions to our supply chain, our operations or those of our strategic partners, customers or suppliers caused by employees or others contracting COVID-19, or governmental orders to contain the spread of COVID-19 such as travel restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, trade controls, and business shutdowns; A global economic downturn or a recession causing a decrease in short- or long-term demand for our products, resulting in industry oversupply and decreases of average selling prices (ASPs), which would negatively impact our sales and profitability; Deterioration of worldwide credit markets that may limit our ability or increase our cost to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures and result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to customer credit defaults; Extreme volatility in financial markets which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access the financial markets on acceptable terms, or at all; Increased data security and technology risk as many employees transition to work from home arrangements, including possible outages to systems and technologies critical to remote work and increased data privacy risk with cybercriminals attempting to take advantage of the disruption; and Managements ongoing commitment of significant time, attention and resources to respond to the pandemic. The degree to which the pandemic ultimately impacts our business and results of operations will depend on future developments beyond our control which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, the extent of actions to contain or treat COVID-19, the effectiveness of government stimulus programs, any possible resurgence of COVID-19 that may occur after the initial outbreak subsides, how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating activity can resume, and the severity and duration of the global economic downturn that results from the pandemic. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in more detail in this Risk Factors section, such as those relating to adverse global or regional conditions, our highly competitive industry, supply chain disruption, customer demand conditions and our ability to forecast demand, cost saving initiatives, our indebtedness and liquidity, and cyber-attacks. We have significant indebtedness, which imposes upon us debt service obligations, and our term loan and credit facility contains various operating and financial covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and overall results of operations to meet these debt obligations or remain in compliance with the covenants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness presents significant risks to our business and investors, both in terms of the constraints that it places on our ability to operate our business and because of the possibility that we may not generate 11 Table of Contents sufficient cash and results of operations to remain in compliance with our covenants and pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it becomes due. We recently failed to meet certain financial covenants in our debt agreements, which could have resulted in a default under these agreements if we had not obtained a waiver of noncompliance from our lenders. For further description of our outstanding debt, see the section captioned Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. As a result of our indebtedness: Our ability to invest in growing our business is constrained by the financial covenants contained in our credit facility, which require us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and liquidity levels; We must dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other cash requirements; Our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete may be limited, including our ability to engage in mergers and acquisitions activity, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; We are subject to mandatory field audits and control of cash receipts by the lenders if we do not maintain liquidity above certain thresholds; We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions; and We may be unable to make payments on other indebtedness or obligations. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants that require us to comply with and maintain certain liquidity levels and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, as well as restrict our ability, subject to certain thresholds, to: Incur debt; Incur liens; Make acquisitions of businesses or entities or sell certain assets; Make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; Engage in transactions with affiliates; Pay dividends or engage in stock repurchases; and Enter into certain restrictive agreements. The weakness we experienced for several years in the market for our storage, back up and data protection business, which is the primary driver of our overall cash flow and operating income, placed increased pressure on our ability to meet our liquidity and fixed charge coverage ratio covenants. In recent periods, our business has declined due, in part, to the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, we fell out of compliance with certain financial covenants, including, for example, the total net leverage ratio and total leverage ratio covenants for the fourth fiscal quarter period ending March 31, 2020. We received a waiver from our lenders for the noncompliance of these covenants. In June 2020, we amended our debt agreements to revise our financial covenants in light of currently expected business levels under current market conditions, including the negative impact of COVID-19. These amendments required us to make significant payments to our lenders, including approximately $1.0 million and to issue 3,400,000 warrants that are exercisable for shares of our common stock, which when exercised will result in significant dilution to our stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we also incurred significant costs related to advisors, attorneys and accountants. We believe we will be able to meet these covenants in the future, but if our financial results turn out to be lower than expected, we may breach a covenant, which could result in a default under our credit facility agreements. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, or to make cash payments in connection with our credit facility, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Further, as our indebtedness reaches maturity, we will be required to make large cash payments or adopt one or more alternatives, such as restructuring indebtedness or obtaining additional debt or equity financing on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may be unable to incur additional debt or refinance our existing debt on acceptable terms, if at all. Our credit facility is collateralized by a pledge of all our assets. If we were to default and were unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, the lenders would have a right to foreclose on our assets to satisfy our obligations under 12 Table of Contents these agreements. Any such action on the part of the lenders against us could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with entering into our credit facilities and certain amendments to our prior credit facilities, we were required to issue warrants to purchase our common stock to our lenders. When exercised, these warrants will result in significant dilution to our stockholders. As a result, the issuance of common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding warrants may cause our stock price to decline. We have previously identified deficiencies in our control environment and financial reporting process that resulted in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and previously concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure