Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed Quantum Computing, Inc. (the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview At the present time, we are a development stage company with limited operations. The Company is currently developing quantum ready software applications and solutions for companies that want to leverage the promise of quantum computing. We believe the quantum computer holds the potential to disrupt several global industries. Independent of when quantum computing delivers compelling performance advantage over classical computing, the software tools and applications to accelerate real-world problems must be developed to deliver quantum computings full promise. We specialize in quantum computer-ready software application, analytics, and tools, with a mission to deliver differentiated performance using non-quantum processors in the near-term. We are leveraging our collective expertise in finance, computing, mathematics and physics to develop a suite of quantum software applications that may enable global industries to utilize quantum computers, quantum annealers and digital simulators to improve their processes, profitability, and security. We primarily focus on the quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO) formulation, which is equivalent to the Ising model implemented by hardware annealers, both non-quantum from Fujitsu and others and quantum from D-Wave Systems, and also mappable to gate-model quantum processors. We are building a software stack that maps and optimizes problems in the QUBO form and then solves them powerfully on cloud-based processors. Our software is designed to be capable of running on both classical computers and on annealers such as D-Waves quantum processor. We are also building applications and analytics that deliver the power of our software stack to high-value discrete optimization problems posed by financial, bio/pharma, and cybersecurity analysts. The advantages our software delivers can be faster time-to-solution to the same results, more-optimal solutions, or multiple solutions. 2 Products and Products in Development Quantum Asset Allocator: We have released our first commercial product for the FinTech, or Financial Technology, market, the Quantum Asset Allocator (QAA). The target market for QAA is financial institutions who are currently addressing asset allocation problems but are looking for better tools with which to optimize portfolio performance. QAA is available both as a cloud-based software service and as an on-premises software-plus-hardware system. Mukai quantum application development platform: The Company recently released its Mukai quantum application development platform. Mukai can be used to solve extremely complex optimization problems, which are at the heart of some of the most difficult computing challenges in industry and government. Its software stack enables developers to create and execute quantum-ready applications on classic computers, while being ready to run on quantum computers when those systems can achieve performance advantages. Mukai uses highly-optimized parallel code, and is currently centered on the quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO) formulation well known to quantum annealing users. The Company is currently working on software products to address, community detection (analysis for pharmaceutical applications and epidemiology), optimization of job shop scheduling, logistics, and dynamic route optimization for transportation systems. The Company is continuing to seek out difficult problems for which our technology may provide improvement over existing solutions. Financial Application The Company is currently focused on a number of software application development efforts relating to finance. We are working with early users of our QAA product, to find related problems that are large and complex enough to benefit from quantum acceleration. The finance industry has used quantitative finance software applications for several decades. However, existing software applications have been limited in their performance due to the lack of computing power needed to solve the relevant classes of optimization problems. We are continuing to develop software to address two classes of financial optimization problems: Asset allocation and Yield Curve Trades. For asset allocation, our target clients are the asset allocation departments of large funds, who we envision using our application to improve their allocation of capital into various asset classes. Development of these algorithms has been on-going for the past four quarters and we have been working with beta clients for our financial application since August of 2019. Once client beta testing is completed we plan to hire sales staff to begin commercial sales and marketing anticipated to begin in the third or fourth quarter of 2020. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 vs. March 31, 2019 Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 (In thousands) Amount Mix Amount Mix Change Products 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Services 0 0 % 0 0 % 0 % Total $ 0 100.0 % $ 0 100.0 % 0 % 3 Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0, or 0%. The lack of revenue is due to the fact that the Company is currently in beta testing of the products it has developed and the Company has not yet sold any products or services to any customers. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period, a change of $0 or 0%. There was no cost of revenues recorded because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0 as compared with $0 for the comparable prior year period. There was no gross margin because the Company has not yet commenced marketing and selling products or services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $1,738,392 as compared with $583,139 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $1,155,253, or 198%. The increase in operating expenses is due in large part to the $941,100 increase in stock based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2020 compared with the comparable period in 2019. In addition, changes in the number and composition of staff resulted in a $49,177 increase in salary and benefit expenses, and a $193,392 increase in research and development expenses, offset in part by an $18,067 decrease in legal and audit fees, compared to the comparable prior year period. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $698,179 as compared with a net loss of $635,673 for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $62,605. The increase in net loss is primarily due to the increase in operating expenses, noted above, offset by $425,000 in other income from a legal settlement, and a $670,598 reduction in interest expense associated with the mark to market repricing of a convertible promissory note derivative recorded in the current period compared to the comparable prior year period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since commencing operations as Quantum Computing in February 2018, the Company has raised $75,000 through private placement of equity and $4,545,000 through private placements of Convertible Promissory Notes for a total of $4,620,000 in new investment. The Company has no bank loans or lines of credit, and no long term debt obligations. As of March 31, 2020 the Company had cash and equivalents of $199,331 on hand. The following table summarizes total current assets, liabilities and working capital at March 31, 2020, compared to December 31, 2019: March 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Increase/(Decrease) Current Assets $ 213,652 $ 122,649 $ 91,0003 Current Liabilities $ 2,445,670 $ 2,960,537 $ (541,868 ) Working Capital (Deficit) $ (2,204,745 ) $ (2,812,293 ) $ 607,548 At March 31, 2020, we had a working capital deficit of $2,204,745 as compared to working capital deficit of $2,812,293, at December 31, 2019, a decrease of $607,548. The decrease in working capital deficit is primarily attributable to a decrease in Note Derivative liability resulting from marking to market as of March 31, 2020. 4 Net Cash Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 was $268,709 and $434,344, respectively. The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, was $698,179 and $635,673, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 were $3,258 and $ 0, respectively representing a $3,258 increase in investments for computer equipment in 2020 compared with the first three months of 2019. Net cash provided in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $370,198 and cash flows provided in the same period of 2019 was $ 0. Cash flows provided in financing activities during the first three-month period in 2020 were primarily attributable to issuance of convertible notes and the exercise of warrants issued with those notes. No cash flows were provided by financing activities during 2019 were the first quarter of 2019. Previously, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. During 2020, we have funded our operations through the sale of convertible debt securities and income from a legal settlement with REMTC. As of May 8, 2020, we had cash on hand of approximately $318,181. We have approximately $8,795 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Our current capital and revenues are not sufficient to fund such expansion and we will continue to rely on the sale of our debt and or equity securities to fund operations. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities will be the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Going Concern The Companys financial statements have been prepared on the basis that it is a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has earned no revenue from operations in the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, and has an accumulated deficit of $29,459,134 and $21,015,540 respectively. The Companys ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to develop additional sources of capital or ultimately acquire an entity which the Company hopes will become profitable at some time in the near future. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Management is seeking additional capital to finance the operations of the Company. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2020 or for fiscal 2019, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. 5 Adoption of ASC 842 On January 1, 2019, we adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 842, Leases (ASC 842) which requires the recognition of the right-of-use assets and relating operating and finance lease liabilities on the balance sheet. As permitted by ASC 842, we elected the adoption date of January 1, 2019, which is the date of initial application. As a result, the consolidated balance sheet prior to January 1, 2019 was not restated, continues to be reported under ASC Topic 840, Leases (ASC 840), which did not require the recognition of operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet, and is therefore not comparative. Under ASC 842, all leases are required to be recorded on the balance sheet and are classified as either operating leases or finance leases. The lease classification affects the expense recognition in the income statement. Operating lease charges are recorded entirely in operating expenses. Finance lease charges are split, where amortization of the right-of-use asset is recorded in operating expenses and an implied interest component is recorded in interest expense. The expense recognition for operating leases and finance leases under ASC 842 is substantially consistent with ASC 840. As a result, there is no significant difference in our results of operations presented in our consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for each period presented. We adopted ASC 842 using a modified retrospective approach for all leases existing at January 1, 2019. The adoption of ASC 842 had a minor impact on our balance sheet. The most significant impact was the recognition of the operating lease right-of-use assets and the liability for operating leases. The accounting for finance leases (capital leases) was substantially unchanged. Accordingly, upon adoption, leases that were classified as operating leases under ASC 840 were classified as operating leases under ASC 842, and we recorded an adjustment of $2,491 to operating lease right-of-use asset and the related lease liability. The lease liability is based on the present value of the remaining minimum lease payments, determined under ASC 840, discounted using our incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of January 1, 2019. As permitted under ASC 842, we elected several practical expedients that permit us to not reassess (1) whether a contract is or contains a lease, (2) the classification of existing leases, and (3) whether previously capitalized costs continue to qualify as initial indirect costs. The application of the practical expedients did not have a significant impact on the measurement of the operating lease liability. As of December 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 we had no finance leases. The impact of the adoption of ADC 842 on the balance sheet at December 31, 2018 was: As Reported December 31, 2018 Adoption of ASC 842 Increase (Decrease) Revised Balance January 1, 2019 Other Current Assets 1,767,080 1,767,080 Operating Lease right-of-use assets - 2,491 2,491 Total assets 1,797,156 2,491 1,799,647 Other current liabilities 3,314,102 3,314,102 Lease Liability-current - 2,491 2,491 Long-term Liabilities - - - Total Liabilities and equity 1,797,156 2,491 1,799,647 We lease substantially all our office space used to conduct our business. We adopted ASC 842 effective January 1, 2019. For contracts entered into on or after the effective date, at the inception of a contract we assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. Our assessment is based on (1) whether the contract involves the use of a distinct identified asset, (2) whether we obtain the right to substantially all the economic benefit from the use of the asset throughout the period, and (3) whether we have the right to direct the use of the asset. At inception of a lease, we allocate the consideration in the contract to each lease component based on its relative stand-alone price to determine the lease payments. Leases entered into prior to January 1, 2019 are accounted for under ASC 840 and were not reassessed. 6 Leases are classified as either finance leases or operating leases. A lease is classified as a finance lease if any one of the following criteria are met: (1) the lease transfers ownership of the asset by the end of the lease term, (2) the lease contains an option to purchase the asset that is reasonably certain to be exercised, (3) the lease term is for a major part of the remaining useful life of the asset or (4) the present value of the lease payments equals or exceeds substantially all of the fair value of the asset. A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not meet any one of these criteria. Substantially all our operating leases are comprised of office space leases and as of December 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 we had no finance leases. For all leases at the lease commencement date, a right-of-use asset and a lease liability are recognized. The right-of-use asset represents the right to use the leased asset for the lease term. The lease liability represents the present value of the lease payments under the lease. The Company is currently leasing space on a month-to-month basis while we evaluate alternatives for expansion facilities. Accordingly, no right-or-use asset or lease liability are currently recognized. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which primarily comprises the initial amount of the lease liability, plus any initial direct costs incurred, consisting mainly of brokerage commissions, less any lease incentives received. All right-of-use assets are reviewed for impairment. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or if that rate cannot be readily determined, our secured incremental borrowing rate for the same term as the underlying lease. For our real estate and other operating leases, we use our secured incremental borrowing rate. For our finance leases, we use the rate implicit in the lease or our secured incremental borrowing rate if the implicit lease rate cannot be determined. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following: the fixed noncancelable lease payments, payments for optional renewal periods where it is reasonably certain the renewal period will be exercised, and payments for early termination options unless it is reasonably certain the lease will not be terminated early. Lease expense for operating leases consists of the lease payments plus any initial direct costs, primarily brokerage commissions, and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Adoption of ASU 2018-02 On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2018-02, Income Statement Reporting Comprehensive Income: Reclassification of Certain Tax effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (ASU 2018-02), which requires the reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for the stranded tax effects arising from the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. ASU 2018-02 modifies ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740), which requires businesses to adjust the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities upon a change in the tax law. ASC 740 specifies that changes in tax assets and liabilities related to the tax rate change must be presented in earnings, even when the corresponding deferred taxes relate to items initially recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income such as pension adjustments, gains or losses on cash flow hedges, foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities. The Company had no deferred tax assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2017, accordingly there were no stranded tax effects to reclassify and the adoption of ASU 2018-02 had no impact on the Companys financial statements. Adoption of ASU 2018-07 On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2018-07, Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2018-07), which aligns the accounting for share-based payments to nonemployees for goods and services with the requirements for accounting for share-based payments to employees under ASC 718 Compensation - Stock Compensation. ASU 2018-07 provides that nonemployee share-based payments are measured at the grant date at the fair value of the equity instruments to be provided to the nonemployee when the goods or services have been delivered. Prior to ASU 2018-07 nonemployee share-based payments were measured at the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instruments issued, whichever could be more reliably measured. 7 We adopted ASU 2018-07 using a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the implementation date for all nonemployee share-based payments that (1) have not been settled as of the adoption date and (2) nonemployee share-based payments for which a measurement date has not been established. We made no adjustment to retained earnings as a result of adopting ASU 2018-07. Use of Estimates: These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Because a precise determination of assets and liabilities, and correspondingly revenues and expenses, depends on future events, the preparation of financial statements for any period necessarily involves the use of estimates and assumption an example being assumptions in valuation of stock options. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates. These financial statements have, in managements opinion, been properly prepared within reasonable limits of materiality and within the framework of the accounting policies summarized below. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Companys policy is to present bank balances under cash and cash equivalents, which at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts. Property and Equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost or contributed value. Depreciation of furniture, software and equipment is calculated using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives, and leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the lease term. The cost and related accumulated depreciation of equipment retired or sold are removed from the accounts and any differences between the undepreciated amount and the proceeds from the sale are recorded as a gain or loss on sale of equipment. Net Loss Per Share: Net loss per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares and common shares equivalents outstanding during the period.