Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed Quantum Computing, Inc. (the Company, QCi, we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. As discussed in Note 15, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements, in the accompanying notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, we have restated our previously-issued consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2023; accordingly, the following has been prepared giving effect to such restatement. Overview QCi is a development stage company. Our strategy is to create a range of accessible and affordable quantum machines and photonics chips for use by commercial and government markets. We have developed and continue to primarily develop quantum and photonics products for high-performance computing applications based on patented and proprietary technology. Our technology is central to our strategy because we believe that it enables us to leverage the advantages of size, weight, power and cost (over competing cryogenic products) to drive market adoption and volume of sales. Specifically, our products are designed to operate at room temperature and at very low power levels at an affordable cost. 1 QCis core technology is Entropy Quantum Computing (EQC). EQC is a patent pending methodology that utilizes the environment to drive controlled energy loss in a photonic architecture. The Company believes the EQCs small rack-mountable size and low-energy consumption provides a substantial competitive edge as compared to superconducting, cryogenic quantum systems offered by competitors that are also designed to solve optimization problems. In addition to our photonic computing platform, we have leveraged QCis core technology to demonstrate powerful quantum sensing use cases in LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging), reservoir computing (a form of neural network that can be used in machine learning applications) and quantum cyber authentication (a method for highly secure communication within a network). Several of these important technologies are already in early stages of commercialization. Our longer-term product development plan is to migrate product designs based on discrete components to a set of optical integrated circuits built on wafers using a crystalline material called lithium niobate (Thin Film Lithium Niobate or TFLN). The Company believes that TFLN is an excellent material for design and implementation of optical integrated circuits (TFLN Chips) suitable for our quantum computing and sensing products because it is crystal based and hence can have optical waveguides directly etched into the material. QCi possesses strong domain experience and intellectual property in TFLN design and chip fabrication and has completed initial production of several specialty devices such as electro-optical modulators (EOMs). TFLN EOMs have the advantages of large bandwidth, low power consumption, and small size. The Company has begun buildout of a state-of-the-art TFLN chip manufacturing facility in a leased space within Arizona State Universitys Research Park in Tempe, Arizona. The Companys understanding is that this could be the nations first dedicated optical integrated circuit manufacturing foundry using TFLN wafers to achieve quantum effects and superior optical interconnects for data centers. Our plan for the facility is to produce a range of custom lithium niobate chips for use in our own product lines as well as chips for sale in the commercial market. The Company has plans to support this initiative by applying for funding for distinct uses under both the Title 17 Clean Energy Financing Program managed by the US Department of Energys Loan Programs Office and also the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors Act of 2022 (the CHIPS Act), which specifically includes $39 billion in manufacturing incentives and $13 billion to support new research and development. We believe that the practical benefits to the customer of QCis core offerings are: Powerful performance in speed and quality of solution for large complex optimization problems Plug and play compatibility with existing IT infrastructure Low power consumption normal operation under 80 watts Scalability with potential for migration to nanophotonic system-on-a-chip designs The Company has limited operations, has generated limited revenue based on sales of products and related services to date, and is expanding our sales and marketing efforts to support our current portfolio of commercially-available products and planned TFLN Chips. Market Opportunity Despite enormous growth in the capabilities of conventional computers and silicon microprocessors, some of the worlds most important computational problems are still considered impractical to solve in a reasonable period of time. Quantum computing represents a potential alternative approach to solving those problems because quantum computers apply the properties of quantum physics to operate in a fundamentally different way. Conventional computer chips use binary bits (ones and zeros) to represent information. Quantum computers utilize qubits (quantum bits), which leverage some of the properties of quantum physics, namely superposition and entanglement, to process computations that would be intractably difficult using conventional computers. Quantum machines are intrinsically able to search very large solution spaces using these quantum effects and are thereby able to perform optimization calculations in polynomial time vs. exponential time. While quantum-based computers will not replace conventional computers in most applications, they are ideally suited to run optimization algorithms, as well as to calculate certain sensing, imaging, and cybersecurity problems that are beyond the reach of general silicon-based computing today. The Company believes that quantum solutions have the potential to bring order of magnitude advances in the fields of medicine, engineering, autonomous vehicles, and cybersecurity and that the demand for quantum computing in these market sectors will likely outpace and outperform the general-purpose computing market in the near- to mid-term and into the foreseeable future. 2 Our core technology offers practical, cost-effective solutions that materially advance the adoption of quantum machines across several market segments including: 1. Quantum Computing 2. Quantum Intelligence (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) 3. Remote Sensing 4. Imaging 5. Cybersecurity Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for high-performance conventional and quantum computing and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new computing devices, while also enhancing competing cloud-based services for businesses. Aggregate demand for our solutions, services, and devices is also correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in Quantum Optical Chips and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Components for our devices are primarily manufactured by third parties. Some of our products contain certain components for which there are very few qualified suppliers. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent. We compete for talented individuals by offering an exceptional working environment, an ability to work on new, ground-breaking quantum technology, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Results of Operations Our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 is as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 % Change 2024 2023 % Change Revenue: Total revenue $ 183 $ 112 63 % $ 210 $ 233 (10 )% Gross profit 58 61 (5 )% 69 126 (45 )% Gross profit margin Operating expenses: Research and development 2,094 2,466 (15 )% 4,315 4,650 (7 )% Sales and marketing 429 385 11 % 880 812 8 % General and administrative 2,802 4,168 (33 )% 6,459 7,718 (16 )% Total operating expenses 5,325 7,019 (24 )% 11,654 13,180 (12 )% Loss from operations (5,267 ) (6,958 ) (24 )% (11,585 ) (13,054 ) (11 )% Non-operating income and (expense): Interest and other income 73 61 20 % 110 93 18 % Interest expense, net - (537 ) (100 )% (155 ) (963 ) (84 )% Change in value of warrant liability - 17 (100 )% - 370 (100 )% Total non-operating income (expense) 73 (459 ) 116 % (45 ) (500 ) (91 )% Net loss $ (5,194 ) $ (7,417 ) (30 )% $ (11,630 ) $ (13,554 ) (14 )% 3 Revenues The Companys revenues consist of (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 % Change 2024 2023 % Change Products $ 27 $ - NM $ 27 $ - NM Services 156 112 39 % 183 233 (21 )% Total 183 112 63 % 210 233 (10 )% Revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2024 were $183 thousand compared to $112 thousand for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $71 thousand or 63%. Revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2024 were $210 thousand compared to $233 thousand, a decrease of $23 thousand or 10%. The respective increase and decrease in revenues are primarily due to changes in the number of, size of and level of effort performed on active customer proof-of-concept and research and development contracts in the three months ended June 30, 2024. Revenue in the current reporting period is derived from professional services provided to multiple government and commercial customers under multi-month contracts and hardware sales. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues, which consists of direct labor expenses, primarily salary expense for engineering and solutions staff delivering services, was $125 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2024 compared to $51 thousand for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $74 thousand or 145%. Cost of revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2024 was $141 thousand compared to $107 thousand for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $34 thousand or 32%. The respective increases are primarily due to the increase in direct labor expense required to perform on the contracts in the current quarter compared to the prior year period. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2024 was $58 thousand and 32%, respectively, compared to $61 thousand and 55%, respectively, for the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $3 thousand and 5%, respectively. Gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2024 was $69 thousand and 33% compared to $126 thousand and 54%, a decrease of $57 thousand and 45%. The respective changes were nearly entirely the result of a reduction in contractual service revenue where the cost of goods sold was defined under the terms of our general professional services obligation. Our lack of a scaled and distributed base of revenue generation by product and sales channel can result in significant differences in gross margin between reporting periods. Operating Expenses Information about our operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 is set forth in the below tables (in thousands, except percentages). Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2024 decreased by $1.7 million primarily as a result of lower general and administrative expenses of $1.4 million and research and development expenses of approximately $400 thousand. Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 % Change 2024 2023 % Change Research and development $ 2,094 $ 2,466 (15 )% $ 4,315 $ 4,650 (7 )% 4 Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation for employees that primarily engage in research and development efforts and fees for the development of hardware products and supporting software. We focus the bulk of our research and development activities on the continued development of existing products and the development of new offerings for emerging market opportunities. Research and development expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 decreased compared to the comparable prior year periods primarily due to employee-related expenses. Decreases in bonus expenses were partially offset by net increases in stock-based compensation as the Company sought to create long-term incentives to retain key technical employees. See Note 12, Stock-based Compensation, in the accompanying notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information. Additionally, net payroll costs and professional services expenses decreased due to net reduced headcount as the Company reduced software development resources at the end of 2023. Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 % Change 2024 2023 % Change Sales and marketing $ 429 $ 385 11 % $ 880 $ 812 8 % Selling and marketing expenses, which consist primarily of employee compensation as well as customer lead generation activities, tradeshow participation, advertising and other marketing and selling costs, also contributed to the decrease in selling and administrative expenses. Selling and marketing expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 increased primarily due to forfeited stock-based compensation recognized during the six months ended June, 2023, offset by lower stock based compensation for services and decreased marketing programs and services costs. Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 % Change 2024 2023 % Change General and administrative $ 2,802 $ 4,168 (33 )% $ 6,459 $ 7,718 (16 )% General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation expenses for employees performing administrative functions, and professional fees incurred for legal, auditing and other consulting services. General and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 decreased compared to the comparable prior year period primarily due to employee- and advisor-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, severance and lower payroll and consulting services costs driven by changes made within and by the Companys management team. Non-operating Income (Expense) The following table summarizes our non-operating income (expense) for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands, except percentages). Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 % Change 2024 2023 % Change Interest and other income $ 73 $ 61 20 % $ 110 $ 93 18 % Interest expense, net - (537 ) (100 )% (155 ) (963 ) (84 )% Change in value of warrant liability - 17 (100 )% - 370 (100 )% Other income (expense) $ 73 $ (459 ) 116 % $ (45 ) $ (500 ) (91 )% 5 The $532 thousand increase in other income for the three months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the comparable prior year period is the result of decreased interest expense for the Streeterville Unsecured Note. The $455 thousand decrease in other expense for the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the comparable prior year period is the result of a $808 thousand decrease in interest expense for the Streeterville Unsecured Note, offset by a $370 thousand reduction of gains in the value of the warrant liability recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2023. Interest expense, net consists of interest on financial liabilities and amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in interest expense in 2024 compared to 2023 was attributable to decreased borrowings outstanding under the Streeterville Unsecured Note which was paid-in-full as of March 1, 2024. See Note 8, Financial Liabilities, in the accompanying notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information. The gain on change in value of warrant liability is primarily comprised of mark-to-market adjustments for the QPhoton Warrants, which have had no carrying value as of June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023. Future mark-to-market adjustments may result in losses if the Companys stock price increases above the exercise price of the Underlying Options, as defined below. See Note 11, Capital Stock - Warrants, in the accompanying notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on the QPhoton Warrants. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses and experienced negative cash flows from operations since inception. Through June 30, 2024, the Company has raised $68.3 million through private and public placements of equity and $12.6 million through private placements of convertible promissory notes and other debt for a total of $80.9 million. The Company has no lines of credit or short-term debt obligations outstanding when excluding the remaining debt issuance costs. We expect to incur additional losses and higher operating expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development and go-to-market programs. We have determined that additional financing will be required to fund our operations for the next 12 months and our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon obtaining additional capital and financing. As of June 30, 2024, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $2.5 million. Our primary uses of cash are to fund our operations as we continue to grow our business. We will require a significant amount of cash for expenditures to fund business operations and continue to invest in ongoing research and development for our non-linear quantum optical products and photonics chips. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from sales or subscriptions of our hardware offerings, we expect to finance our cash needs through public and/or private equity and/or debt financings or other capital sources, including but not limited to U.S. government grant and loan programs. However, we may be unable to raise sufficient funds or enter into such other arrangements, when needed, on favorable terms, or at all. In particular, uncertain and unfavorable conditions in the United States and global macroeconomic environment, including inflationary pressures, rising interest rates, banking collapses, and financial and credit market fluctuations, could reduce our ability to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our product development and go-to-market efforts. It is managements opinion that these conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern for a period of 12 months from the date of the issuance of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to secure additional equity investments or achieve an adequate sales level. The following table summarizes total consolidated current assets, liabilities and working capital at June 30, 2024, compared to December 31, 2023 (in thousands): June 30, 2024 December 31, 2023 Change Current Assets $ 3,415 $ 2,656 $ 759 Current Liabilities $ 2,893 $ 4,812 $ (1,919 ) Working Capital (Deficit) $ 522 $ (2,156 ) $ 2,678 At June 30, 2024, we had working capital of $522 thousand as compared to a working capital deficit of $2.2 million at December 31, 2023, an increase of $2.7 million. The increase in working capital is primarily attributable to an increase in cash proceeds from issuance of the common stock using the Companys ATM facility, offset by the use of cash to pay for operating expenses and capital investments in property and equipment. 6 Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands). Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,862 ) $ (8,921 ) Net cash used in investing activities (2,656 ) (1,081 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 10,985 11,891 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 467 $ 1,889 Net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was $7.9 million and $8.9 million, respectively, in each case primarily as a result of our net loss in each period offset by noncash adjustments for stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization; the prior year comparable period also included adjustments for a mark-to-market gain on the QPhoton Warrant liability. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was $2.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively, and was attributable to our purchase of computer hardware, laboratory and TFLN Chip manufacturing equipment. The increase in investment in the current period is primarily due to the purchase of additional equipment in establishing the Companys TFLN Chip manufacturing facility in a leased space within Arizona State Universitys Research Park in Tempe, Arizona. Net cash provided by financing activities was $11.0 million and $11.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2024 were attributable to use of the ATM facility to sell shares of our common stock, offset by repayments on the Streeterville Unsecured Note and redemptions of Series A Preferred shares. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the period ended June 30, 2023 were attributable to the use of the ATM facility to sell shares of our common stock. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on the continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. As most of our revenues will be from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by the actions of our competitors and prolonged recession periods Critical Accounting Estimates Certain of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by our management, and such judgments are reflected in the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies, our management uses judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of estimates. Those estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of market trends, information provided by our strategic partners and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates contained in our consolidated financial statements. Fair Value of Stock-based Compensation and Derivatives We recognize stock-based compensation expense for all share-based payment awards in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation. Stock-based compensation expense for expected-to-vest awards is valued under the single-option approach and amortized on a straight-line basis, accounting for actual forfeitures as they occur. We utilize the Black-Scholes pricing model in order to determine the fair value of stock-based option awards. The Black-Scholes pricing model requires various highly subjective assumptions including volatility, expected option life, and risk-free interest rate. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. Another area of critical accounting estimates involves determining the fair market value of the QPhoton Warrants, as defined below. The Company determines which underlying options and warrants are in-the-money or out-of-the-money at period end by comparing to the bid price of the Companys common stock, then accounts for changes period-over-period by realizing a mark-to-market gain or loss for the period. 7 Fair Market Value and Useful Life of Intangible Assets Determining the fair market value and useful life of the intangible assets acquired by the Company through the merger with QPhoton is another critical accounting estimate. In the absence of market pricing for the intangible assets, the Company relied on independent third-party appraisal experts and comparison with similar transactions to arrive at estimates of value as well as useful life. The Company will perform periodic assessments of the intangible assets for impairment, but if any of the initial estimates are incorrect, that could result in a calculation of amortization expense that is too high or too low. Valuation Allowances for Deferred Taxes Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements assessment of estimated current and future income taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements, which are expected to result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, for all material jurisdictions, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax balances, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results and incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating results. As of June 30, 2024, we had federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $57 million, or $14.9 million on a tax-effected basis. We believe that it is more likely than not that the benefit from these NOL carryforwards will not be realized. Accordingly, we have provided a full valuation allowance on any potential deferred tax assets relating to these NOL carryforwards. If our assumptions change and we determine we will be able to realize these NOLs, the tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets as of June 30, 2024, will be accounted for as a reduction of income tax expense. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves evaluating uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. ASC 740, Income Taxes, states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of the technical merits. We record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740 and adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a tax payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is made available. We believe that none of the unrecognized tax benefits may be recognized by the end of 2024. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 8