Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in the sections titled Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Management Overview We are a leader in performance marketplaces and technologies for the financial services and home services industries. We specialize in customer acquisition for clients in high value, information-intensive markets or verticals, including financial services and home services. Our clients include some of the worlds largest companies and brands in those markets. The majority of our operations and revenue are in North America. We deliver measurable and cost-effective marketing results to our clients, typically in the form of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. Clicks, leads, calls, and applications can then convert into a customer or sale for clients at a rate that results in an acceptable marketing cost to them. We are typically paid by clients when we deliver qualified inquiries in the form of clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers, as defined by our agreements with them. References to the delivery of customers means a sale or completed customer transaction (e.g., funded loans or customer appointments with clients). Because we bear the costs of media, our programs must result in attractive marketing costs to our clients at media costs and margins that provide sound financial outcomes for us. To deliver clicks, leads, calls, applications, and customers to our clients, generally we: own or access targeted media through business arrangements (e.g., revenue sharing arrangements with online publisher partners, large and small) or by purchasing media (e.g., clicks from major search engines); run advertisements or other forms of marketing messages and programs in that media that result in consumer or visitor responses, typically in the form of clicks (by a consumer to further qualification or matching steps, or to online client applications or offerings), leads (e.g., consumer contact information), calls (from a consumer or to a consumer by our owned and operated or contracted call centers or by that of our clients or their agents), applications (e.g., for enrollment or a financial product), or customers (e.g., funded personal loans); continuously seek to display clients and client offerings to visitors or consumers that result in the maximum number of consumers finding solutions that can meet their needs and to which they will take action to respond, resulting in media buying efficiency (e.g., by segmenting media or traffic so that the most appropriate clients or client offerings can be displayed or matched to each segment based on fit, response rates or conversion rates); and through technology and analytics, seek to optimize combination of objectives to satisfy the maximum number of shopping or researching visitors or consumers, deliver on client marketing objectives, effectively compete for online media, and generate a sound financial outcome for us. Our primary financial objective has been and remains creating revenue growth from sustainable sources, at target levels of profitability. Our primary financial objective is not to maximize short-term profits, but rather to achieve target levels of profitability while investing in various growth initiatives, as we continue to believe we are in the early stages of a large, long-term market opportunity. Our business derives its net revenue primarily from fees earned through the delivery of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. Through a vertical focus, targeted media presence and our technology platform, we are able to deliver targeted, measurable marketing results to our clients. Our financial services client vertical represented 64% and 66% of net revenue in fiscal years 2024 and 2023. Our home services client vertical represented 35% and 33% of net revenue in fiscal years 2024 and 2023. Other revenue, which primarily includes our performance marketing agency and technology services, represented 1% of net revenue in fiscal years 2024 and 2023. We generated the majority of our revenue from sales to clients in the United States. 38 Trends Affecting our Business Client Verticals Our financial services client vertical has been challenged by a number of factors in the past, including the limited availability of high quality media at acceptable margins caused by the acquisition of media sources by competitors, increased competition for high quality media and changes in search engine algorithms. These factors may impact our business in the future again. To offset this impact, we have enhanced our product set to provide greater segmentation, matching, transparency and right pricing of media that have enabled better monetization to provide greater access to high quality media sources. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships and acquisitions to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. In addition, within our financial services client vertical, we derive a significant amount of revenue from auto insurance carriers and the financial results depend on the performance of the auto insurance industry. For example, inflation, weather-related and supply chain events have led to increases in insurance industry loss ratios, which decreased our clients advertising spending and thereby had a material adverse effect on our business. On July 1, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Modernize, a leading home improvement performance marketing company, to broaden our customer and media relationships in the home services client vertical. Our home services client vertical has been expanding over the past several years, primarily driven by successful execution of growth initiatives and synergies with the Modernize acquisition. Our business also benefits from more spending by clients in digital media and performance marketing as digital marketing continues to evolve. Acquisitions Acquisitions have historically been, and continue to be, an important element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital. We have completed several strategic acquisitions in the past, including the acquisitions of BestCompany and AquaVida completed in fiscal year 2024, two immaterial acquisitions in fiscal year 2022, the acquisitions of Modernize, Mayo Labs and FCE completed in fiscal year 2021, and the acquisitions of AmOne, CCM, and MBT completed in fiscal year 2019. For detailed information regarding our acquisitions, refer to Note 6, Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements. Development, Acquisition and Retention of High Quality Targeted Media One of the primary challenges of our business is finding or creating media that is high quality and targeted enough to attract prospects for our clients at costs that provide a sound financial outcome for us. In order to grow our business, we must be able to find, develop, or acquire and retain quality targeted media on a cost-effective basis. Consolidation of media sources, changes in search engine algorithms and increased competition for available media has, during some periods, limited and may continue to limit our ability to generate revenue at acceptable margins. To offset this impact, we have developed new sources of media, including entering into strategic partnerships with other marketing and media companies and acquisitions. Such partnerships include takeovers of performance marketing functions for large web media properties; backend monetization of unmatched traffic for clients with large media buys; and white label products for other performance marketing companies. We have also focused on growing our revenue from call center, email, mobile and social media traffic sources. Seasonality Our results are subject to significant fluctuation as a result of seasonality. In particular, our quarters ending December 31 (our second fiscal quarter) are typically characterized by seasonal weakness. In our second fiscal quarters, there is generally lower availability of media during the holiday period on a cost-effective basis and some of our clients have lower budgets. In our quarters ending March 31 (our third fiscal quarter), this trend generally reverses with better media availability and often new budgets at the beginning of the year for our clients with fiscal years ending December 31. Our results are also subject to fluctuation as a result of seasonality in our clients business. For example, revenue in our home services client vertical is subject to cyclical and seasonal trends, as the consumer demand for home services typically rises during the spring and summer seasons and declines during the fall and winter seasons. Other factors affecting our clients businesses include macro factors such as credit availability in the market, interest rates, the strength of the economy and employment. 39 Regulations Our revenue has fluctuated in part as a result of federal, state and industry-based regulations and developing standards with respect to the enforcement of those regulations. Our business is affected directly because we operate websites and conduct telemarketing and email marketing, and indirectly affected as our clients adjust their operations as a result of regulatory changes and enforcement activity that affect their industries. Clients in our financial services vertical have been affected by laws and regulations and the increased enforcement of new and pre-existing laws and regulations. The effect of these regulations, or any future regulations, may continue to result in fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. An example of a regulatory change that may affect our business is the amendment of the TCPA that affects telemarketing and the consent requirements for certain types of telemarketing calls and automated messaging. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to the automated delivery of voice and text messages are continuously evolving and developing. Our clients may make business decisions based on their own experiences with the TCPA regardless of our products and compliance practices. Those decisions may negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Basis of Presentation Net Revenue Our business generates revenue primarily from fees earned through the delivery of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. We deliver targeted and measurable results through a vertical focus, which includes our financial services client vertical and our home services client vertical. All remaining businesses that are not significant enough for separate reporting are included in other revenue. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of media and marketing costs, personnel costs, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation expense and facilities expense. Media and marketing costs consist primarily of fees paid to third-party publishers, media owners or managers, or to strategic partners that are directly related to a revenue-generating event and of pay-per-click, or PPC, ad purchases from Internet search companies. We pay these third-party publishers, media owners or managers, strategic partners and Internet search companies on a revenue-share, a cost-per-lead, or CPL, or cost-per-click, or CPC, basis. Personnel costs include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and related taxes, and employee benefit costs. Personnel costs are primarily related to individuals associated with maintaining our servers and websites, our call center operations, our editorial staff, client management, creative team, content, compliance group and media purchasing analysts. Costs associated with software incurred in the development phase or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized to cost of revenue over the softwares estimated useful life. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and, to a lesser extent, professional services fees, facilities fees and other costs. Personnel costs for each category of operating expenses generally include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and related taxes, and employee benefit costs. Product Development. Product development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees related to the development and maintenance of our products and media management platform. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our finance, legal, employee benefits and compliance, technical support and other administrative personnel, accounting and legal professional services fees, facilities fees and bad debt expense. 40 Interest and Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest and other (expense) income, net, consists primarily of interest expense, interest income, and other income and expense. Interest expense is related to imputed interest on post-closing payments related to our acquisitions. We have no borrowing agreements outstanding as of June 30, 2024; however interest expense could increase if, among other things, we enter into a new borrowing agreement to manage liquidity or make additional acquisitions through debt financing. Interest income represents interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, which may increase or decrease depending on market interest rates and the amounts invested. Other (expense) income, net includes impairment charge for investment in equity securities, gains and losses on foreign currency exchange, and other non-operating items. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes We are subject to tax in the United States as well as other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our limited non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. Results of Operations A discussion regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 is presented below. A discussion regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 can be found under the heading Results of Operation in Part II, Item 7., Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2023, filed with the SEC on August 21, 2023, which is available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. The following table presents our consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 613,514 100.0 % $ 580,624 100.0 % $ 582,099 100.0 % Cost of revenue (1) 567,268 92.5 532,101 91.6 528,368 90.8 Gross profit 46,246 7.5 48,523 8.4 53,731 9.2 Operating expenses: (1) Product development 30,045 4.9 28,893 5.0 21,906 3.7 Sales and marketing 13,607 2.2 12,542 2.2 11,042 1.9 General and administrative 30,659 5.0 27,904 4.8 25,501 4.4 Operating loss (28,065 ) (4.6 ) (20,816 ) (3.6 ) (4,718 ) (0.8 ) Interest income 408 0.1 296 0.1 10 Interest expense (680 ) (0.1 ) (790 ) (0.2 ) (1,075 ) (0.2 ) Other (expense) income, net (2,059 ) (0.3 ) (52 ) 21 Loss before income taxes (30,396 ) (4.9 ) (21,362 ) (3.7 ) (5,762 ) (1.0 ) (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (935 ) (0.2 ) (47,504 ) (8.2 ) 514 0.1 Net loss $ (31,331 ) (5.1 )% $ (68,866 ) (11.9 )% $ (5,248 ) (0.9 )% (1) Cost of revenue and operating expenses include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 8,409 1.4 % $ 7,923 1.4 % $ 7,475 1.3 % Product development 3,147 0.5 2,880 0.5 2,575 0.4 Sales and marketing 2,968 0.5 2,298 0.4 2,378 0.4 General and administrative 9,177 1.5 5,685 1.0 6,078 1.0 41 Gross Profit Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 - 2023 2023 - 2022 2024 2023 2022 % Change % Change (In thousands) Net revenue $ 613,514 $ 580,624 $ 582,099 6 % % Cost of revenue 567,268 532,101 528,368 7 % 1 % Gross profit $ 46,246 $ 48,523 $ 53,731 (5 %) (10 %) Gross profit % 8 % 8 % 9 % Net Revenue Net revenue increased by $32.9 million, or 6%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. Revenue from our financial services client vertical increased by $12.9 million, or 3%, due to an increase in revenue in our credit cards, personal loans and banking businesses due to increased media and client budgets. This was partially offset by a decrease in revenue in our insurance business associated with decreased spending by insurance carriers to address profitability concerns caused by inflation and higher costs to repair and replace vehicles. Revenue from our home services client vertical increased by $18.8 million, or 10%, primarily as a result of increased client budgets and successful execution of our growth initiatives. Other revenue increased by $1.2 million, or 16%, which primarily includes performance marketing agency and technology services. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue increased by $35.2 million, or 7%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. This was primarily driven by increased media and marketing costs of $20.8 million due to higher revenue volumes. Personnel costs increased by $8.3 million mainly due to higher average headcount and higher incentive compensation due to revenue growth, and increased stock-based compensation expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $4.6 million mainly due to additional capitalization of internally developed software. Other costs including facilities, equipment and supplies increased by $1.3 million primarily due to increases in software license fees and maintenance contracts. Gross profit margin, which is the difference between net revenue and cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue, remained relatively flat at 8% in fiscal years 2024 and 2023. Our gross profit was $46.2 million for fiscal year 2024 compared to $48.5 million for fiscal year 2023, a decrease of $2.3 million, or 5%, primarily driven by higher personnel costs as a percentage of revenue to support our continued efforts to invest in long-term growth initiatives and capabilities. Operating Expenses Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 - 2023 2023 - 2022 2024 2023 2022 % Change % Change (In thousands) Product development $ 30,045 $ 28,893 $ 21,906 4 % 32 % Sales and marketing 13,607 12,542 11,042 8 % 14 % General and administrative 30,659 27,904 25,501 10 % 9 % Operating expenses $ 74,311 $ 69,339 $ 58,449 7 % 19 % Product Development Expenses Product development expenses increased by $1.2 million, or 4%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. This was primarily due to increased personnel costs of $1.7 million as a result of higher headcount and increased stock-based compensation, partially offset by decreased professional services costs of $0.6 million. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.1 million, or 8%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. This was primarily due to increased personnel costs as a result of higher headcount and increased stock-based compensation. 42 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $2.8 million, or 10%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. This was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation by $3.5 million as a result of not achieving the conditions for performance-based restricted stock in fiscal year 2023 and higher other expenses by $1.2 million primarily due to changes in business and sales tax reserves, partially offset by lower bad debt expense of $2.0 million. Interest and Other (Expense) Income, Net Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 - 2023 2023 - 2022 2024 2023 2022 % Change % Change (In thousands) Interest income $ 408 $ 296 $ 10 38 % 2860 % Interest expense (680 ) (790 ) (1,075 ) (14 %) (27 %) Other (expense) income, net (2,059 ) (52 ) 21 3860 % (348 %) Interest and other expense, net $ (2,331 ) $ (546 ) $ (1,044 ) 327 % (48 %) Interest income relates to interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense relates to imputed interest on post-closing payments related to our acquisitions. Interest expense decreased by $0.1 million, or 14%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 primarily due to decreased imputed interest on a lower average outstanding balance of the post-closing payments. Other (expense) income, net, increased by $2.0 million, or 3,860% in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 primarily due impairment charge for investment in equity securities of $2.0 million recorded in third quarter of fiscal year 2024. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 (In thousands) (Provision for) benefit from income taxes $ (935 ) $ (47,504 ) $ 514 Effective tax rate (3.1 %) (222.4 %) 8.9 % We recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.9 million in fiscal year 2024, primarily as a result of a net expense for deferred federal, state and foreign income taxes of $0.5 million and current state and foreign income taxes of $0.4 million. The net deferred tax expense is related to indefinite lived deferred tax liabilities unable to be offset with deferred tax assets. As a result of continued operating losses, the Company maintained a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $47.5 million in fiscal year 2023, primarily as a result of establishing a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets, which resulted in deferred federal and state income taxes of $47.1 million and current state and foreign income taxes of $0.4 million. We evaluated the need for a valuation allowance at year end by considering among other things, the nature, frequency and severity of current and cumulative losses, reversal of taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies, forecasts of future profitability, and the duration of statutory carryforward periods. Based upon this analysis, we determined that the significant negative evidence associated with cumulative losses in recent periods and current results outweighed the positive evidence as of June 30, 2023 and accordingly, the near-term realization of certain of these assets was deemed not more likely than not. We recorded a one-time non-cash charge to income tax expense of $52.4 million to establish a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023. Our effective tax rate was (3.1%), (222.4%) and 8.9% in fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022. The increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to the one-time charge related to the recognition of valuation allowance in fiscal year 2023. 43 Adjusted EBITDA Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 (In thousands) Other Financial Data: Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 20,365 $ 16,690 $ 31,030 (1) We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) less depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, interest and other expense, net, provision for (benefit from) income taxes, restructuring costs, acquisition costs, litigation settlement expense, tax settlement expense, and contingent consideration adjustment. We include adjusted EBITDA in this report because (i) we seek to manage our business to a level of adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net revenue, (ii) it is used internally by management for planning purposes, including preparation of internal budgets; to allocate resources; to evaluate the effectiveness of operational strategies and capital expenditures as well as the capacity to service debt, (iii) it is a key basis upon which management assesses our operating performance, (iv) it is one of the primary metrics investors use in evaluating Internet marketing companies, (v) it is a factor in determining compensation, (vi) it is an element of certain financial covenants under our historical borrowing arrangements, and (vii) it is a factor that assists investors in the analysis of ongoing operating trends. We use adjusted EBITDA as a key performance measure because we believe it facilitates operating performance comparisons from period to period by excluding potential differences caused by variations in capital structures (affecting interest expense), tax positions (such as the impact of changes in effective tax rates or fluctuations in permanent differences or discrete quarterly items), non-recurring charges and certain other items that we do not believe are indicative of our core operating activities (such as acquisition related expense, contingent consideration adjustment, litigation settlement expense, tax settlement expense, restructuring costs, and other expense, net) and the non-cash impact of depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense. In addition, we believe adjusted EBITDA and similar measures are widely used by investors, securities analysts, ratings agencies and other interested parties in our industry as a measure of financial performance, debt-service capabilities and as a metric for analyzing company valuations. Our use of adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and it should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Some of these limitations are: adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our cash expenditures for internal software development projects, capital equipment or other contractual commitments; although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not consider the potentially dilutive impact of issuing stock-based compensation to our management team and employees; should we enter into borrowing arrangements in the future, adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the interest expense or the cash requirements that may be necessary to service interest or principal payments on such indebtedness; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as a comparative measure. Due to these limitations, adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. When evaluating our performance, adjusted EBITDA should be considered alongside other financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other GAAP results. 44 The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net loss calculated in accordance with GAAP, the most comparable GAAP measure, for each of the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 (In thousands) Net loss $ (31,331 ) $ (68,866 ) $ (5,248 ) Depreciation and amortization 23,957 19,155 16,961 Stock-based compensation expense 23,701 18,786 18,506 Interest and other expense, net 2,331 546 1,044 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 935 47,504 (514 ) Restructuring costs 678 212 138 Acquisition costs 94 102 519 Litigation settlement expense 6 34 Tax settlement expense (755 ) 516 Contingent consideration adjustment (926 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 20,365 $ 16,690 $ 31,030 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $50.5 million and cash we expect to generate from future operations. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, internal software development costs, repurchases of our common stock, and acquisitions from time to time. Our acquisitions also may have deferred purchase price components and contingent consideration which requires us to make a series of payments following the acquisition closing date. Our primary operating cash requirements include the payment of media costs, personnel costs, costs of information technology systems and office facilities. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined, in part, by future operating performance and are, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even though we may not need additional funds to fund anticipated liquidity requirements, we may still elect to obtain debt financing or issue additional equity securities for other reasons. In April 2022, our Board of Directors canceled our prior stock repurchase program that commenced in July 2017 and authorized a new stock repurchase program allowing the repurchase of up to $40.0 million worth of common stock. In fiscal year 2024, we repurchased and retired 247,618 shares of our common stock at an average price of $8.85 per share at a total cost of $2.2 million (including a broker commission of $0.03 per share). Repurchases under this program took place in the open market and were made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan. The repurchased shares of common stock were recorded as treasury stock and were accounted for under the cost method. As of June 30, 2024, approximately $16.8 million remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to the board authorization. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. 45 Cash Flows A discussion regarding our cash flows for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 is presented below. A discussion regarding our cash flows for fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022 can be found under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7., Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2023, filed with the SEC on August 21, 2023, which is available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 12,039 $ 11,838 $ 28,672 Net cash used in investing activities (22,735 ) (15,125 ) (9,225 ) Net cash used in financing activities (12,511 ) (19,459 ) (33,315 ) Net Cash provided by Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are primarily the result of our net (loss) income adjusted for depreciation and amortization, provision for or benefit from sales returns and doubtful accounts receivable, stock-based compensation expense, change in the fair value of contingent consideration, non-cash lease expense, deferred income taxes, impairment of investment in equity securities and changes in working capital components. Cash provided by operating activities was $12.0 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to $11.8 million in fiscal year 2023 and $28.7 million in fiscal year 2022. Cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2024 consisted of a net loss of $31.3 million, adjusted for non-cash adjustments of $50.4 million, and a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital of $7.0 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of stock-based compensation expense of $23.7 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $24.0 million, and impairment charge for investment in equity securities of $2.0 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily attributable to an increase in accounts receivable of $44.9 million, offset by an increase in accounts payable of $10.5 million, an increase in accrued liabilities of $25.4 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $3.0 million. The increases in accounts receivable, accrued liabilities and accounts payable were primarily due to higher revenue levels in the two months ended June 30, 2024 as compared same period in prior year, and the timing of receipts and payments. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets was primarily due to decreased prepayments made to third-party publishers and lower amortization expense. Cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2023 consisted of net loss of $68.9 million, adjusted for non-cash adjustments of $86.7 million and changes in working capital accounts of $6.0 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of a one-time non-cash charge of $47.2 million to establish a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, depreciation and amortization of $19.2 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $18.8 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily attributable to a decrease in accrued liabilities of $7.1 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $4.8 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $4.8 million, offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $10.9 million. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities generally include capital expenditures, capitalized internal software development costs, acquisitions from time to time and investment in equity securities. Cash used in investing activities was $22.7 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to $15.1 million in fiscal year 2023 and $9.2 million in fiscal year 2022. Cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2024 was primarily composed of $16.7 million capital expenditures and capitalized internal software development costs, $4.5 million cash payment at the closing of business acquisitions in the third quarter of fiscal year 2024, and $1.5 million of other investing activities. Cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2023 was primarily composed of $15.0 million capital expenditures and capitalized internal software development costs. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities generally include repurchases of common stock, payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement, proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan, and post-closing payments and contingent consideration related to business acquisitions. Cash used in financing activities was $12.5 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to $19.5 million in fiscal year 2023 and $33.3 million in fiscal year 2022. 46 Cash used in financing activities in fiscal year 2024 was due to payment of post-closing payments and contingent consideration related to acquisitions of $7.0 million, payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $6.7 million, and repurchases of common stock of $2.3 million, offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase plan and exercise of stock options of $3.5 million. Cash used in financing activities in fiscal year 2023 was due to payment of post-closing payments and contingent consideration related to acquisitions of $11.6 million, repurchases of common stock of $5.6 million, and the payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $5.4 million, offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase plan and exercise of stock options of $3.2 million. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our payments due under our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2024: Total Lessthan 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years (In thousands) Operating leases (1) $ 13,921 $ 3,896 $ 5,631 $ 4,185 $ 209 Post-closing payment related to acquisitions (2) 18,143 8,416 9,727 Contingent consideration related to acquisitions (2) 2,466 956 1,510 Total $ 34,530 $ 13,268 $ 16,868 $ 4,185 $ 209 (1) Represents payments for our operating lease obligations, including short term lease obligations. We lease various office facilities, including our corporate headquarters in Foster City, California. The terms of certain lease agreements include rent escalation provisions and tenant improvement allowances. In February 2010, we entered into a lease agreement and into a subsequent lease amendment in April 2018 for our corporate headquarters located at 950 Tower Lane, Foster City, California. In March 2023, the lease agreement was further amended, pursuant to which the corporate headquarters will be relocated to a different floor within the same building upon the expiration of the existing lease. The amended agreement commenced in fiscal year 2024, with a lease term of five years and one option to extend the term of the lease for an additional three years. (2) In accordance with the terms of the acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2024, 2022, 2021 and 2019, we are required to make post-closing payments and contingent consideration payments. See Note 6, Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements for more information on the post-closing payments and contingent consideration payments related to our business acquisitions. The above table does not include approximately $2.7 million of long-term income tax liabilities as of June 30, 2024 for uncertainty in income taxes due to the fact that we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of these potential future payments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have prepared our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. In doing so, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience or on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We refer to these estimates and assumptions as critical accounting policies and estimates. We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below involve our more significant judgments, estimates and assumptions and, therefore, could have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, we believe that a discussion of these policies is necessary to understand and evaluate the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Principles, to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our critical and other significant accounting policies. 47 Revenue Recognition We generate our revenue primarily from fees earned through the delivery of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. We recognize revenue when we transfer control of promised goods or services to our clients in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We recognize revenue pursuant to the five-step framework contained in ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: (i) identify the contract with a client; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract, including whether they are distinct in the context of the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price, including the constraint on variable consideration; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognize revenue when (or as) the Company satisfies the performance obligations. As part of determining whether a contract exists, probability of collection is assessed on a client-by-client basis at the outset of the contract. Clients are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the clients financial position and the ability and intention to pay. If it is determined from the outset of an arrangement that the client does not have the ability or intention to pay, we will conclude that a contract does not exist and will continuously reassess our evaluation until we are able to conclude that a contract does exist. Generally, our contracts specify the period of time as one month, but in some instances the term may be longer. However, for most of our contracts with clients, either party can terminate the contract at any time without penalty. Consequently, enforceable rights and obligations only exist on a day-to-day basis, resulting in individual daily contracts during the specified term of the contract or until one party terminates the contract prior to the end of the specified term. We have assessed the services promised in our contracts with clients and have identified one performance obligation, which is a series of distinct services. Depending on the clients needs, these services consist of a specified or an unlimited number of clicks, leads, calls, applications, customers, etc. (hereafter collectively referred to as marketing results) to be delivered over a period of time. We satisfy these performance obligations over time as the services are provided. We do not promise to provide any other significant goods or services to our clients. Transaction price is measured based on the consideration that we expect to receive from a contract with a client. Our contracts with clients contain variable consideration as the price for an individual marketing result varies on a day-to-day basis depending on the market-driven amount a client has committed to pay. However, because we ensure the stated period of our contracts does not generally span multiple reporting periods, the contractual amount within a period is based on the number of marketing results delivered within the period. Therefore, the transaction price for any given period is fixed and no estimation of variable consideration is required. If a marketing result delivered to a client does not meet the contractual requirements associated with that marketing result, our contracts allow for clients to return a marketing result generally within 5-10 days of having received the marketing result. Such returns are factored into the amount billed to the client on a monthly basis and consequently result in a reduction to revenue in the same month the marketing result is delivered. No warranties are offered to our clients. We do not allocate transaction price as we have only one performance obligation and our contracts do not generally span multiple periods. Taxes collected from clients and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in revenue. We elected to use the practical expedient which allows us to record sales commissions as expense as incurred when the amortization period would have been one year or less. We bill clients monthly in arrears for the marketing results delivered during the preceding month. Our standard payment terms are 30-60 days. Consequently, we do not have significant financing components in our arrangements. Separately from the agreements that we have with clients, we have agreements with Internet search companies, third-party publishers and strategic partners that we engage with to generate targeted marketing results for our clients. We receive a fee from our clients and separately pay a fee to the Internet search companies, third-party publishers and strategic partners. We evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenue on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenue on a net basis). In doing so, we first evaluate whether we control the goods or services before they are transferred to the clients. If we control the goods or services before they are transferred to the clients, we are the principal in the transaction. As a result, the fees paid by our clients are recognized as revenue and the fees paid to our Internet search companies, third-party publishers and strategic partners are included in cost of revenue. If we do not control the goods or services before they are transferred to the clients, we are the agent in the transaction and recognize revenue on a net basis. We have one subsidiary, CCM, which provides performance marketing agency and technology services to clients in financial services, education and other markets, recognizing revenue on a net basis. Determining whether we control the goods or services before they are transferred to the clients may require judgment. 48 Stock-Based Compensation We measure and record the expense related to stock-based transactions based on the fair values of stock-based payment awards, as determined on the date of grant. The fair value of restricted stock units with a service condition (service-based RSU) is determined based on the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. To estimate the fair value of stock options and purchase rights granted under the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP), we selected the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of restricted stock units with a service and performance condition (performance-based RSU) is determined based on the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. Grant date as defined by ASC 718 is determined when the components that comprise the performance targets have been fully established. If a grant date has not been established, the compensation expense associated with the performance-based RSUs is re-measured at each reporting date based on the closing price of our common stock at each reporting date until the grant date has been established. In applying these models, our determination of the fair value of the award is affected by assumptions regarding a number of subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the award and the employees actual and projected stock option exercise and pre-vesting employment termination behaviors. We estimate the expected volatility of our common stock based on our historical volatility over the expected term of the award. We have no history or expectation of paying dividends on our common stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield for a term consistent with the expected term of the award. We recognize stock-based compensation expense for options and service-based RSUs using the straight-line method, and for performance-based RSUs using the graded vesting method, based on awards ultimately expected to vest. We recognize stock-based compensation expense for the purchase rights granted under the ESPP using the straight-line method over the offering period. We estimate future forfeitures at the date of grant. On an annual basis, we assess changes to our estimate of expected forfeitures based on recent forfeiture activity. The effect of adjustments made to the forfeiture rates, if any, is recognized in the period that change is made. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes using an asset and liability approach to record deferred taxes. The Companys deferred income tax assets represent temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amount and the tax basis of existing assets and liabilities that will result in deductible amounts in future years, including net operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. Valuation allowances are provided when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The Company regularly assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Judgment is required to determine whether a valuation allowance is necessary and the amount of such valuation allowance, if appropriate. The Company considers all available evidence, both positive and negative, to determine, based on the weight of available evidence, whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need, or continued need, for a valuation allowance The Company considers, among other things, the nature, frequency and severity of current and cumulative taxable income or losses, forecasts of future profitability, and the duration of statutory carryforward periods. Our judgment regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions, changes in U.S. or international tax laws and other factors. The Company recognizes tax benefits from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits of the position, that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the tax authorities. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized within income tax expense. Acquisitions and Business Combinations In each acquisition transaction, we assess whether the transaction should follow accounting guidance applicable to an asset acquisition or a business combination. This assessment requires an evaluation of whether the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, resulting in an asset acquisition or, if not, resulting in a business combination. An asset acquisition is an acquisition of an asset, or a group of assets, that does not meet the definition of a business. We account for asset acquisitions using the cost accumulation and allocation model, whereby the costs of acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired on a relative fair value basis in accordance with our accounting policies. 49 We account for business combinations using the acquisition method, which requires that the total consideration for each of the acquired business be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we used the income approach to value our most significant acquired assets. Significant assumptions relating to our estimates in the income approach include base revenue, revenue growth rate net of client attrition, projected gross margin, discount rates, projected operating expenses and the future effective income tax rates. The valuations of our acquired businesses have been performed by a third-party valuation specialist under our managements supervision. We believe that the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on reasonable assumptions and estimates that marketplace participants would use. However, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. Future changes in our assumptions or the interrelationship of those assumptions may negatively impact future valuations. In future measurements of fair value, adverse changes in discounted cash flow assumptions could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets that would require a non-cash charge to the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss and may have a material effect on our financial condition and operating results. Acquisition related costs in a business combination are not considered part of the consideration, and are expensed as operating expenses as incurred. Contingent consideration, if any, is measured at fair value initially on the acquisition date as well as subsequently at the end of each reporting period until settlement at the end of the assessment period. We include the results of operations of the businesses acquired as of the beginning of the acquisition dates. Goodwill We conduct a test for the impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit level on at least an annual basis and whenever there are events or changes in circumstances that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Significant judgments required to estimate the fair value of reporting units include estimating future cash flows and determining appropriate discount rates, growth rates, an appropriate control premium and other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit which could trigger impairment. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test on April 30 and conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. In assessing the qualitative factors, we consider the impact of key factors such as changes in the general economic conditions, changes in industry and competitive environment, stock price, actual revenue performance compared to previous years, forecasts and cash flow generation. We had one reporting unit for purposes of allocating and testing goodwill for fiscal year 2024. Based on the results of the qualitative assessment completed as of April 30, 2024, there were no indicators of impairment. Long-Lived Assets We evaluate long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and purchased intangible assets with finite lives, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. If necessary, a quantitative test is performed that requires the application of judgment when assessing the fair value of an asset. When we identify an impairment, we reduce the carrying amount of the asset to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach or, when available and appropriate, to comparable market values. As of April 30, 2024, we evaluated our long-lived assets and concluded there were no indicators of impairment. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements for information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements. 50