ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATI ONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they do not materialize or if they prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, will, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified in Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors below, and those discussed in the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, filed with the SEC. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Management Overview QuinStreet, Inc. is a leader in performance marketing products and technologies. We specialize in customer acquisition for clients in high value, information-intensive markets or verticals, including financial services, education, home services, and business-to-business technology. Our clients include some of the worlds largest companies and brands in those markets. While the majority of our operations and revenue are in North America, we have emerging businesses in Brazil and India. We deliver measurable and cost-effective marketing results to our clients most typically in the form of a qualified lead, inquiry, click, call, application, or customer. Leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, and applications can then convert into a customer or sale for clients at a rate that results in an acceptable marketing cost to them. We are typically paid by clients when we deliver qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers as defined by our agreements with them. References to the delivery of customers means a sale or completed customer transaction (e.g., bound insurance policies or customer appointments with clients). Because we bear the costs of media, our programs must result in attractive marketing costs to our clients at media costs and margins that provide sound financial outcomes for us. To deliver leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, and customers to our clients, generally we: own or access targeted media through business arrangements (e.g., revenue sharing arrangements) or by purchasing media (e.g., clicks from major search engines); run advertisements or other forms of marketing messages and programs in that media to create visitor responses in the form most typically of leads or inquiries (e.g., contact information), clicks (to further qualification or matching steps, or to online client applications or offerings), calls (to our owned and operated call centers or that of our clients or their agents), applications (e.g., for enrollment or a financial product), or customers (e.g., bound insurance policies); match these leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers to client offerings or brands that we believe can meet visitor interests or needs and client targets and requirements; and optimize client matches and media costs such that we achieve desired results for clients and a sound financial outcome for us. Our primary financial objective has been and remains creating revenue growth from sustainable sources, at target levels of profitability. Our primary financial objective is not to maximize profits, but rather to achieve target levels of profitability while investing in various growth initiatives, as we continue to believe we are in the early stages of a large, long-term market opportunity. Our business derives its net revenue from fees earned through the delivery of qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers and, to a lesser extent, display advertisements, or impressions. Through a vertical focus, targeted media presence and our technology platform, we are able to deliver targeted, measurable marketing results to our clients. 16 Our two largest client verticals are financial services and education. Our financial services client vertical represented 61% and 45% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 . Our education client vertical represented 24% and 37% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 . Other client verticals, consisting of home services, bu siness-to-business technology and medical, represented 15% and 18% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 . We generated the majority of our revenue from sales to clients in the United States. One client in our financial services client vertical accounted for 11% of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016. No other client accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and no client accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Trends Affecting our Business Client Verticals To date, we have generated the majority of our revenue from clients in our financial services and education client verticals. We expect that a majority of our revenue for the remainder of fiscal year 2017 will continue to be generated from clients in these two client verticals. In addition, revenue from our financial services client vertical is expected to increase as a percentage of our total revenue. Our financial services client vertical has been challenged by a number of factors over the past several years, including the limited availability of high quality media at acceptable margins caused by changes in search engine algorithms, acquisition of media sources by competitors and increased competition for quality media. These effects may continue to impact our business in the future. To offset this impact, we have broadened our product set with enhanced click, lead, call and policy products that have enabled better monetization to provide greater access to high quality media sources. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. Our education client vertical has been significantly challenged by regulations and enforcement activity affecting U.S. for-profit education institutions over the past several years. For example, in January 2014, the Department of Education initiated an investigation of a publicly traded U.S. for-profit education client with respect to its enrollment activities and job placement, among other things, and in July 2014, the Department of Education signed an agreement with the client requiring it to wind down or sell its campuses. In July 2015, the Federal Trade Commission initiated an investigation of another publicly traded U.S. for-profit education client with respect to its recruiting and enrollment practices. These and other similar regulatory and enforcement activities have affected and are expected to continue to affect our clients businesses and marketing practices, which have and may continue to, result in a decrease in these clients spending with us and other vendors and fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. To offset the impact these regulatory and investigative activities have had on the U.S. for-profit education clients, we have broadened our product set from our traditional lead business with the addition of better qualified and matched leads or inquiries, clicks and calls; we believe these new enhanced products better match U.S. for-profit education client needs in the current regulatory environment. We have also broadened our markets in education to include not-for-profit schools and international markets in Brazil and India. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. Development, Acquisition and Retention of High Quality Targeted Media One of the primary challenges of our business is finding or creating media that is high quality and targeted enough to attract prospects for our clients at costs that provide a sound financial outcome for us. In order to grow our business, we must be able to find, develop and retain quality targeted media on a cost-effective basis. Consolidation of media sources, changes in search engine algorithms and increased competition for available media has, during some periods, limited and may continue to limit our ability to generate revenue at acceptable margins. To offset this impact, we have developed new sources of media, including entering into strategic partnerships with other marketing and media companies. Such partnerships include takeovers of performance marketing functions for large web media properties; backend monetization of unmatched traffic for clients with large media buys; and white label products for other performance marketing companies. We have also grown our revenue from mobile and social media traffic sources. 17 Seasonality Our results are subject to significant fluctuation as a result of seasonality. In particular, our quarters ending December 31 (our second fiscal quarter) are typically characterized by seasonal weakness. In our second fiscal quarters, there is lower availability of lead supply from some forms of media during the holiday period on a cost effective basis and some of our clients have lower budgets. In our quarters ending March 31 (our third fiscal quarter), this trend generally reverses with better lead availability and often new budgets at the beginning of the year for our clients with fiscal years ending December 31. Regulations Our revenue has fluctuated in part as a result of federal, state and industry-based regulations and developing standards with respect to the enforcement of those regulations. Our business is affected directly because we operate websites and conduct telemarketing and email marketing, and indirectly affected as our clients adjust their operations as a result of regulatory changes and enforcement activity that affect their industries. Clients in our financial services vertical have been affected by laws and regulations and the increased enforcement of new and pre-existing laws and regulations. In addition, our education client vertical has been significantly affected by the adoption of regulations affecting U.S. for-profit education institutions over the past several years, and a high level of governmental scrutiny is expected to continue. The effect of these regulations, or any future regulations, may continue to result in fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. An example of a regulatory change that may affect our business is the amendment of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the TCPA) that affects telemarketing calls. Our efforts to comply with the TCPA have thus far had a relatively small negative effect on traffic conversion rates. However, our clients may make business decisions based on their own experiences with the TCPA regardless of our products, and the changes we implemented to comply with the regulations. Those decisions may negatively affect our revenue or profitability. Basis of Presentation Net Revenue Our business generates revenue from fees earned through the delivery of qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, customers and, to a lesser extent, display advertisements, or impressions. We deliver targeted and measurable results through a vertical focus that we classify into the following client verticals: financial services, education and other (which includes home services, business-to-business technology and medical). Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of media costs, personnel costs, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation expense, and amortization of internal software development costs related to revenue-producing technologies. Media costs consist primarily of fees paid to third-party publishers, media owners or managers, or to strategic partners that are directly related to a revenue-generating event and of pay-per-click, or PPC, ad purchases from Internet search companies. We pay these third-party publishers, media owners or managers, strategic partners and Internet search companies on a revenue-share, a cost-per-lead, or CPL, cost-per-click, or CPC, or cost-per-thousand-impressions, or CPM, basis. Personnel costs include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and employee benefit costs. Personnel costs are primarily related to individuals associated with maintaining our servers and websites, our call center operations, our editorial staff, client management, creative team, content, compliance group, and media purchasing analysts. Costs associated with software incurred in the development phase or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized in cost of revenue over the softwares estimated useful life. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: product development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and, to a lesser extent, professional services fees, facilities fees and other costs. Personnel costs for each category of operating expenses generally include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions, and employee benefit costs. 18 Product Development. Product development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees related to the development and maintenance of our products and media mana gement platform. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, professional services fees and facilities fees. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our finance, legal, employee benefits and compliance, technical support and other administrative personnel, as well as accounting and legal professional services fees, and insurance. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest expense, interest income, and other income and expense. Interest expense is related to our revolving loan facility. Borrowings under our revolving loan facility and related interest expense could increase if, among other things, we make additional acquisitions through debt financing. Interest income represents interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, which may increase or decrease depending on market interest rates and the amounts invested. Other income and expense includes gains and losses on foreign currency exchange, gains and losses on sales of websites and domain names that were not considered to be strategically important to our business, and other non-operating items. Benefit from (Provision for) Income Taxes We are subject to tax in the United States as well as other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our limited non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience or on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below involve our more significant judgments, assumptions and estimates and, therefore, could have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition; Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets; Stock-based compensation; Income taxes; and Valuation of long-lived assets. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K subsequent to June 30, 2016. For further information on our critical and other significant accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016, filed with the SEC. 19 Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 20 Results of Opera tions The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 73,438 100.0 % $ 72,389 100.0 % Cost of revenue (1) 67,808 92.3 65,918 91.1 Gross profit 5,630 7.7 6,471 8.9 Operating expenses: (1) Product development 3,954 5.4 4,444 6.1 Sales and marketing 2,590 3.5 3,622 5.0 General and administrative 4,031 5.5 4,220 5.8 Operating loss (4,945 ) (6.7 ) (5,815 ) (8.0 ) Interest income 21 6 Interest expense (156 ) (0.2 ) (133 ) (0.2 ) Other income (expense), net 135 0.2 (57 ) (0.1 ) Loss before income taxes (4,945 ) (6.7 ) (5,999 ) (8.3 ) Benefit from (provision for) taxes 1,376 1.9 (365 ) (0.5 ) Net loss $ (3,569 ) (4.8 )% $ (6,364 ) (8.8 )% (1) Cost of revenue and operating expenses include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 971 1.3 % $ 927 1.3 % Product development 536 0.7 658 0.9 Sales and marketing 357 0.5 472 0.7 General and administrative 743 1.0 732 1.0 Net Revenue Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2016 2015 % Change (In thousands) Net revenue $ 73,438 $ 72,389 1 % Cost of revenue 67,808 65,918 3 % Gross profit $ 5,630 $ 6,471 (13 %) Net revenue increased $1.0 million, or 1%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. Revenue from our financial services client vertical increased $12.4 million, or 39%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to the continued rollout of enhanced products and media management platform and to additional strategic partnerships that have increased and diversified our access to quality media and client budgets. Revenue from our education client vertical decreased $9.4 million, or 35%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to exits from the channel of large for-profit education clients and decreased client demand as a result of client initiatives which include campus closures and discontinuation of certain education programs. Revenue from our other client verticals decreased $2.0 million, or 15%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to decreased client demand in our business-to-business technology and medical client verticals, partially offset by increased client demand in our home services client vertical. 21 Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue increased $1.9 million, or 3%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, driven by increased media costs of $2.3 million primarily due to higher revenue volumes from our financial services click products, which tend to have higher media costs as a percentage of revenue, partially offset by decreased personnel costs of $0.4 million primarily related to decreased incentive compensation associated with the lower achievement of performance objectives. Gross margin, which is the difference between net revenue and cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue, was 8% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 9% for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease in gross margin was attributable to a higher proportion of our revenue coming from our financial services click products, partially offset by decreased personnel costs. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2016 2015 % Change (In thousands) Product development $ 3,954 $ 4,444 (11 %) Sales and marketing 2,590 3,622 (28 %) General and administrative 4,031 4,220 (4 %) Operating expenses $ 10,575 $ 12,286 (14 %) Product Development Expenses Product development expenses decreased $0.5 million, or 11%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. This was primarily due to decreased personnel costs of $0.3 million related to decreased incentive compensation associated with the lower achievement of performance objectives. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.0 million, or 28%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. This was primarily due to decreased personnel costs of $0.6 million related to decreased average headcount and decreased incentive compensation associated with the lower achievement of performance objectives and decreased professional services of $0.2 million. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses decreased $0.2 million, or 4%, for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. This was primarily due to decreased incentive compensation associated with the lower achievement of performance objectives. Benefit from (Provision for) Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 (In thousands) Benefit from (provision for) taxes $ 1,376 $ (365 ) We recorded a valuation allowance against the majority of our deferred tax assets at the end of fiscal year 2014 and continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2016 as we believe it is not more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be fully realizable. We recorded a benefit from income taxes of $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as a result of a tax refund from an amended state tax return filing. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to the outcome of a state tax examination. Our annual statutory tax rate was 34% for the three 22 month s ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Due to the effects of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance and our net operating loss, our annual effective tax rate was not meaningful as our income tax amounts were not directly correlated to the amount of loss before income taxes for the period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2016, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $53.6 million, cash we expect to generate from future operations, and available borrowings under our $25.0 million revolving loan facility under which we have drawn $15.0 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, internal software development costs, payment on our revolving loan facility which matures in June 2017, and acquisitions from time to time. Our primary operating cash requirements include the payment of media costs, personnel costs, costs of information technology systems, and office facilities. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined, in part, by future operating performance and are, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, and also our ability to access our revolving loan facility. Even though we may not need additional funds to fund anticipated liquidity requirements, we may still elect to obtain additional debt, issue additional equity securities or draw down on or increase our borrowing capacity under our current revolving loan facility for other reasons. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,207 $ 3,243 Net cash used in investing activities (1,006 ) (1,725 ) Net cash used in financing activities (347 ) (1,323 ) Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are primarily the result of our net loss adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and changes in working capital components. Cash provided by operating activities was $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to cash flows provided by operating activities of $3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2016 consisted of a net loss of $3.6 million, which included a cash receipt from a state tax refund of $1.4 million , offset by non-cash adjustments of $5.9 million. In addition, there was a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital of $1.1 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $3.4 million and stock-based compensation expense of $2.6 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily due to a decrease in accrued liabilities of $3.8 million, offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $2.8 million. The decrease in accrued liabilities was primarily due to bonus payments which occur annually during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and the timing of payments. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to the timing of receipts. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2015 consisted of a net loss of $6.4 million, which included a restructuring charge of $0.2 million, offset by non-cash adjustments of $6.6 million. In addition, there was a net increase in cash from changes in working capital of $3.0 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $3.9 million and stock-based compensation expense of $2.8 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily due to a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $5.5 million, offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $2.8 million. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets were primarily due to a cash receipt from a federal tax refund. The decrease 23 in accounts paya ble and accrued liabilities were primarily due to bonus payments which occur annually during the three months ended September 30, 2015 and the timing of payments. Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities generally include capital expenditures and capitalized internal development costs. Cash flows used in investing activities was $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to cash flows used in investing activities of $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was primarily due to capital expenditures and internal software development costs of $1.1 million and $1.8 million. Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities generally include principal payments on acquisition-related notes payable and withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement. Cash used in financing activities was $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to cash flows used in financing activities of $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was due to withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net share settlement of $0.3 million and $1.3 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have an investment in a variable interest entity of which we are not the primary beneficiary and as to which we do not have any material obligations. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations relate to borrowings under our revolving loan facility and operating leases. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016. Loan Facility As of September 30, 2016, we were party to a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Comerica Bank (the Bank), as administrative agent and sole lender, which consisted of a $25.0 million revolving loan facility with a maturity date of June 11, 2017. Borrowings under the revolving loan facility bear interest at a rate of the Eurodollar rate plus 3.00%, and is secured by substantially all of our assets. We must pay an annual facility fee of $62,500 and an annual unused fee of 0.25% of the undrawn revolving loan facility commitments. We have the right to prepay the revolving loan facility or permanently reduce the revolving loan facility credit commitments without premium or penalty, in whole or in part at any time. Borrowings under the revolving loan facility are subject to a borrowing base consisting of eligible receivables and certain other customary conditions. The Credit Agreement, as amended, contains limitations on our ability to sell assets, make acquisitions, pay dividends, incur capital expenditures and also requires us to comply with certain additional covenants. In addition, we are also required to maintain financial covenants when there are amounts outstanding under the revolving loan facility and at the time we draw down amounts under the revolving loan facility. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016. As of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016, there was $15.0 million outstanding under the revolving loan facility. 24 See Note 8, Debt, to our cond ensed consolidated financial statements for further information on our revolving loan facility. Headquarters Lease We entered into a lease agreement in February 2010 for approximately 63,998 square feet of office space located at 950 Tower Lane, Foster City, California. The term of the lease began on November 1, 2010 and expires on October 31, 2018. The monthly base rent was abated for the first 12 calendar months under the lease, and was $0.1 million through the 24th calendar month of the term of the lease. Monthly base rent increased to $0.2 million for the subsequent 12 months and now increases approximately 3% after each 12-month anniversary during the remaining term, including any extensions under our options to extend. We have two options to extend the term of the lease for one additional year for each option following the expiration date of the lease or renewal term, as applicable.