ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they do not materialize or if they prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, expect, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, outlook, may, will, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified in Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors below, and those discussed in the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, filed with the SEC. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Management Overview We are a leader in performance marketplace technologies and services for the financial services and home services industries. We specialize in customer acquisition for clients in high value, information-intensive markets or verticals, including financial services, education and home services. Our clients include some of the worlds largest companies and brands in those markets. The majority of our operations and revenue are in North America. We deliver measurable and cost-effective marketing results to our clients, typically in the form of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. Clicks, leads, calls, and applications can then convert into a customer or sale for clients at a rate that results in an acceptable marketing cost to them. We are typically paid by clients when we deliver qualified inquiries in the form of clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers, as defined by our agreements with them. References to the delivery of customers means a sale or completed customer transaction (e.g., funded loans, bound insurance policies or customer appointments with clients). Because we bear the costs of media, our programs must result in attractive marketing costs to our clients at media costs and margins that provide sound financial outcomes for us. To deliver clicks, leads, calls, applications, and customers to our clients, generally we: own or access targeted media through business arrangements (e.g., revenue sharing arrangements with online publisher partners, large and small) or by purchasing media (e.g., clicks from major search engines); run advertisements or other forms of marketing messages and programs in that media that result in consumer or visitor responses, typically in the form of clicks (by a consumer to further qualification or matching steps, or to online client applications or offerings), leads (e.g., consumer contact information), calls (from a consumer or to a consumer by our owned and operated or contracted call centers or by that of our clients or their agents), applications (e.g., for enrollment or a financial product), or customers (e.g., funded personal loans); and continuously seek to display clients and client offerings to visitors or consumers that result in the maximum number of consumers finding solutions that can meet their needs and to which they will take action to respond, resulting in media buying efficiency (e.g., by segmenting media or traffic so that the most appropriate clients or client offerings can be displayed or matched to each segment based on fit, response rates or conversion rates); through technology and analytics, seek to optimize combination of objectives to satisfy the maximum number of shopping or researching visitors or consumers, deliver on client marketing objectives, effectively compete for online media, and generate a sound financial outcome for us. Our primary financial objective has been and remains creating revenue growth from sustainable sources, at target levels of profitability. Our primary financial objective is not to maximize short-term profits, but rather to achieve target levels of profitability 21 while investing in various growth initiatives, as we continue to believe we are in the early stages of a large, long-term market opportunity. Our business derives its net revenue primarily from fees earned through the delivery of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. Through a vertical focus, targeted media presence and our technology platform, we are able to deliver targeted, measurable marketing results to our clients. Our financial services client vertical represented 68% and 73% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30 , 2020 and 2019. Our education client vertical represented 8% and 14% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30 , 2020 and 2019, reflecting the divestiture of the client vertical in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Our other client verticals, primarily the home services client vertical following the disposition of our B2B client vertical in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, represented 24% and 13% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30 , 2020 and 2019. We generated the majority of our revenue from sales to clients in the United States. One client in our financial services client vertical accounted for 26% and 18% of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. No other client accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. Trends Affecting our Business COVID-19 We continue to monitor COVID-19 for impacts that may unfavorably affect our business, such as reductions in client spending on marketing and advertising, drops in media availability or performance, deteriorating consumer spending, fluctuations in interest rates, and credit quality of our receivables. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and may continue to affect our business operations, including our employees, clients, publishers, business partners, and communities, and there is substantial uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals' actions in response to the pandemic; and the impact on economic activity including the length and depth of the economic downturn or financial market instability. These factors may adversely impact consumer, business, and government spending as well as customers' ability to pay for our services on an ongoing basis . Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Client Verticals Our financial services client vertical has been challenged by a number of factors in the past, including the limited availability of high quality media at acceptable margins caused by the acquisition of media sources by competitors, increased competition for high quality media and changes in search engine algorithms. These factors may impact our business in the future again. To offset this impact, we have enhanced our product set to provide greater segmentation, matching, transparency and right pricing of media that have enabled better monetization to provide greater access to high quality media sources. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships and acquisitions to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. Our financial services client vertical also benefits from more spending by clients in digital media and performance marketing as digital marketing continues to evolve. Our education client vertical has been significantly challenged by regulations and enforcement activity affecting U.S. for-profit education institutions over the past several years. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, as a result of the decision to narrow our focus to the best performing businesses and market opportunities, we entered into an agreement with a third-party and completed the divestiture of our education client vertical . In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, we completed the acquisition of Modernize, a leading home improvement performance marketing company, to broaden our customer and media relationships in the home services client vertical. The COVID-19 pandemic is also affecting our client verticals to varying degrees. For example, within our financial services client vertical, certain credit-driven lines of business, such as personal loans and credit cards, have seen and may continue to see reductions in near-term demand for our services due to weakening economic and employment conditions, and the uncertainty over the length and depth of the economic downturn. 22 Development, Acquisition and Retention of High Quality Targeted Media One of the primary challenges of our business is finding or creating media that is high quality and targeted enough to attract prospects for our clients at costs that provide a sound financial outcome for us. In order to grow our business, we must be able to find, develop, or acquire and retain quality targeted media on a cost-effective basis. Consolidation of media sources, changes in search engine algorithms and increased competition for available media has, during some periods, limited and may continue to limit our ability to generate revenue at acceptable margins. To offset this impact, we have developed new sources of media, including entering into strategic partnerships with other marketing and media companies and acquisitions. Such partnerships include takeovers of performance marketing functions for large web media properties; backend monetization of unmatched traffic for clients with large media buys; and white label products for other performance marketing companies. We have also focused on growing our revenue from call center, email, mobile and social media traffic sources. Seasonality Our results are subject to significant fluctuation as a result of seasonality. In particular, our quarters ending December 31 (our second fiscal quarter) are typically characterized by seasonal weakness. In our second fiscal quarters, there is generally lower availability of media during the holiday period on a cost effective basis and some of our clients have lower budgets. In our quarters ending March 31 (our third fiscal quarter), this trend generally reverses with better media availability and often new budgets at the beginning of the year for our clients with fiscal years ending December 31. Our results are also subject to fluctuation as a result of seasonality in our clients business. For example, revenue in our home services client vertical is subject to cyclical and seasonal trends, as the consumer demand for home services typically rises during the spring and summer seasons and declines during the fall and winter seasons. Other factors affecting our clients businesses include macro factors such as credit availability in the market, interest rates, the strength of the economy and employment. Regulations Our revenue has fluctuated in part as a result of federal, state and industry-based regulations and developing standards with respect to the enforcement of those regulations. Our business is affected directly because we operate websites and conduct telemarketing and email marketing, and indirectly affected as our clients adjust their operations as a result of regulatory changes and enforcement activity that affect their industries. Clients in our financial services vertical have been affected by laws and regulations and the increased enforcement of new and pre-existing laws and regulations. The effect of these regulations, or any future regulations, may continue to result in fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. An example of a regulatory change that may affect our business is the amendment of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the TCPA) that affects telemarketing calls. Our clients may make business decisions based on their own experiences with the TCPA regardless of our products and compliance practices. Those decisions may negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Basis of Presentation Net Revenue Our business generates revenue primarily from fees earned through the delivery of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. We deliver targeted and measurable results through a vertical focus that we classify into the following client verticals: financial services, education (which was divested in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021), and other (which primarily includes the home services client vertical following the disposition of our B2B client vertical in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020). Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of media and marketing costs, personnel costs, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation expense and facilities expense. Media and marketing costs consist primarily of fees paid to third-party publishers, media owners or managers, or to strategic partners that are directly related to a revenue-generating event and of pay-per-click, or PPC, ad purchases from Internet search companies. We pay these third-party publishers, media owners or managers, strategic partners and Internet search companies on a revenue-share, a cost-per-lead, or CPL, cost-per-click, or CPC, or cost-per-thousand-impressions, or CPM, basis. Personnel costs include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and employee benefit costs. Personnel costs are primarily related to individuals associated with maintaining our servers and websites, our call center operations, our editorial staff, client management, creative team, content, compliance group and media purchasing analysts. 23 Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: product development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and, to a lesser extent, professional services fees, facilities fees and other costs. Personnel costs for each category of operating expenses generally include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and related taxes and employee benefit costs. Product Development. Product development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees related to the development and maintenance of our products and media management platform. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our finance, legal, employee benefits and compliance, technical support and other administrative personnel, accounting and legal professional services fees, facilities fees and bad debt expense. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest expense, interest income, and other income and expense. Interest expense is related to imputed interest on post-closing payments related to our acquisitions. We have no borrowing agreements outstanding as of September 30, 2020; however interest expense could increase if, among other things, we enter into a new borrowing agreement to manage liquidity or make additional acquisitions through debt financing. Interest income represents interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, which may increase or decrease depending on market interest rates and the amounts invested. Other income and expense includes gains and losses on foreign currency exchange, gains and losses on divestitures of subsidiaries, client verticals and assets that were not considered to be strategically important to our business, and other non-operating items. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to tax in the United States as well as other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our limited non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience or on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below involve our more significant judgments, assumptions and estimates and, therefore, could have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition; Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets; Stock-based compensation; Business combination; Income taxes; and Valuation of long-lived assets. 24 For further information on our critical and other significant accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 20 20 , filed with the SEC. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 139,269 100.0 % $ 126,614 100.0 % Cost of revenue (1) 122,231 87.8 113,189 89.4 Gross profit 17,038 12.2 13,425 10.6 Operating expenses: (1) Product development 4,891 3.5 3,556 2.8 Sales and marketing 2,643 1.9 2,363 1.9 General and administrative 6,581 4.7 5,825 4.6 Operating income 2,923 2.1 1,681 1.3 Interest income 22 72 0.1 Interest expense (339 ) (0.2 ) (212 ) (0.2 ) Other income (expense), net 16,689 12.0 (257 ) (0.2 ) Income before income taxes 19,295 13.9 1,284 1.0 Provision for income taxes (4,614 ) (3.4 ) (152 ) (0.1 ) Net income $ 14,681 10.5 % $ 1,132 0.9 % (1) Cost of revenue and operating expenses include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 2,201 1.6 % $ 2,490 2.0 % Product development 549 0.4 484 0.4 Sales and marketing 547 0.4 421 0.3 General and administrative 1,483 1.1 1,253 1.0 Gross Profit Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2020 2019 % Change (In thousands) Net revenue $ 139,269 $ 126,614 10 % Cost of revenue 122,231 113,189 8 % Gross profit $ 17,038 $ 13,425 27 % 25 Net Revenue Net revenue increased $12.7 million, or 10%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019. Revenue from our other client vertical increased by $17.1 million, or 105%, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Modernize completed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, offset by a decline in revenue due to the divestiture of our B2B client vertical completed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Revenue from our financial services client vertical increased by $1.3 million, or 1%, primarily due to our enhanced product set that enabled access to more media and an increase in client budgets, offset by a decline in revenue in the credit-driven business due to weakening economic and employment conditions caused by COVID-19 , and a decline in revenue as a result of the divestiture of our mortgage business completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. Revenue from our education client vertical decreased by $5.8 million, or 33%, primarily due to the divestiture of the client vertical completed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue increased by $9.0 million, or 8%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019. This was primarily driven by increased media and marketing costs of $6.5 million, increased amortization of intangible assets of $1.3 million, and increased personnel costs of $1.0 million. The increase in media and marketing costs was due to higher revenue volumes. The increase in amortization expense is due to the acquisition of Modernize intangible assets and the increase in personnel costs is primarily due to higher headcount as a result of the acquisition of Modernize . Gross profit margin, which is the difference between net revenue and cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue, was 12% and 11% for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. The increase in gross profit margin was primarily attributable to decreased media and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2020 2019 % Change (In thousands) Product development $ 4,891 $ 3,556 38 % Sales and marketing 2,643 2,363 12 % General and administrative 6,581 5,825 13 % Operating expenses $ 14,115 $ 11,744 20 % Product Development Expenses Product development expenses increased by $1.3 million, or 38%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to increased personnel costs of $1.2 million as a result of higher headcount and increased incentive compensation expense. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased by $0.3 million, or 12%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to increased personnel costs including stock-based compensation expense of $0.4 million. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $0.8 million, or 13%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to increased personnel costs including stock-based compensation expense of $0.5 million and increased facilities expense of $0.2 million . 26 Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 (In thousands) Provision for income taxes $ (4,614 ) $ (152 ) As of September 30, 2020, we have not recorded any significant valuation allowance adjustments based on the information and evidence available at the time. However, if there are unfavorable changes to actual operating results or to projections of future income, we may determine that it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets may not be realizable. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $4.6 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $102.2 million and cash we expect to generate from future operations. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, internal software development costs and acquisitions from time to time. Our acquisitions in fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 2019 also have deferred purchase price components and contingent consideration which requires us to make a series of payments following the acquisition closing date. Our primary operating cash requirements include the payment of media costs, personnel costs, costs of information technology systems and office facilities. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined, in part, by future operating performance and are, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions including the impact of COVID-19, and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even though we may not need additional funds to fund anticipated liquidity requirements, we may still elect to obtain debt financing or issue additional equity securities for other reasons. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 17,558 $ 9,541 Net cash used in investing activities (20,707 ) (1,051 ) Net cash used in financing activities (2,055 ) (531 ) Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are primarily the result of our net income adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, gains and losses on divestitures of businesses, and changes in working capital components. Cash provided by operating activities was $17.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $9.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2020 consisted of a net income of $14.7 million, a net increase in cash from changes in working capital of $6.0 million, offset by non-cash adjustments of $3.1 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily attributable to an increase in accounts payable of $9.0 million, offset by a decrease in accrued liabilities of $2.7 million. The increase in accounts payable and decrease in accrued liabilities was due to the timing of payments. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of a net disposition gain of $16.6 million recognized from the divestiture of our Education client vertical completed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, offset by stock-based compensation expense of $4.8 million, a decrease in deferred tax assets of $4.5 million due to provision for income taxes for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, and depreciation and amortization of $4.1 million. 27 Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2019 consisted of a net income of $1.1 million, non-cash adjustments of $7.8 million and a net increase in cash from changes in working capital of $0.7 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $2.8 million and stock-based compensation expense of $4.6 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable of $0.9 million and an increase in accounts payable of $3.0 million, offset by a decrease in accrued liabilities of $2.8 million and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.6 million. The decrease in accounts receivable was due to the timing of receipts. The increase in accounts payable and decrease in accrued liabilities was due to the timing of payments. Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities generally include capital expenditures, capitalized internal software development costs, acquisitions from time to time, and business divestitures. Cash used in investing activities was $20.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to cash used in investing activities of $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2020 was primarily due to $43.9 million cash paid at the closing of the Modernize acquisition, net of cash acquired of $3.6 million, and capital expenditures and internal software development costs of $1.1 million, offset by $20.0 million cash received from the divestiture of our Education client vertical completed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, and $0.7 million cash received from the divestiture of our B2B client vertical completed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to capital expenditures and internal software development costs of $1.1 million. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities generally include withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement, proceeds from the exercise of stock options and post-closing payments related to our acquisitions. Cash used in financing activities was $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to cash used in financing activities of $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2020 was due to the payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $2.9 million, payment of contingent consideration related to the CCM acquisition of $0.3 million, offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1.2 million. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was due to the payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $2.4 million, offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1.8 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 28 Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth payments due under our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2020: Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter (In thousands) Operating leases (1) $ 21,071 $ 5,208 $ 11,654 $ 4,176 $ 33 Post-closing payment related to acquisitions (2) 34,159 11,142 13,543 9,474 Contingent consideration related to acquisitions (2) 2,822 1,272 1,483 67 Total $ 58,052 $ 17,622 $ 26,680 $ 13,717 $ 33 (1) We lease various office facilities, including our corporate headquarters in Foster City, California. The terms of certain lease agreements include rent escalation provisions and tenant improvement allowances . In February 2010, we entered into a lease agreement for our corporate headquarters located at 950 Tower Lane, Foster City, California with an expiration date in October 2018 and an option to extend the term of the lease twice by one additional year. In April 2018, the lease agreement was amended to extend the lease term through October 31, 2023. Under the amended lease agreement, during the first year of the extended lease term, the monthly base rent was abated for the first eight months and increased to $0.2 million for the remaining four months. During the second year of the extended lease term, the monthly base rent was abated for the first five months and increased to $0.3 million for the remaining seven months. Subsequently, after each 12-month anniversary, the monthly base rent increases by approximately 3%. We have an option to extend the term of the lease for an additional five years following October 31, 2023. (2) In accordance with the terms of the acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 2019, we are required to make post-closing payments and contingent consideration payments. See Note 8, Acquisitions, to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information on the post-closing payments and contingent consideration payments related to our acquisitions. The above table does not include approximately $2.3 million of long-term income tax liabilities for uncertainty in income taxes due to the fact that we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of these potential future payments. 29