ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they do not materialize or if they prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, expect, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, outlook, may, will, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified in Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors below, and those discussed in the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, filed with the SEC. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Management Overview We are a leader in performance marketplaces and technologies for the financial services and home services industries. We specialize in customer acquisition for clients in high value, information-intensive markets or verticals, including financial services and home services. Our clients include some of the worlds largest companies and brands in those markets. The majority of our operations and revenue are in North America. We deliver measurable and cost-effective marketing results to our clients, typically in the form of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. Clicks, leads, calls, and applications can then convert into a customer or sale for clients at a rate that results in an acceptable marketing cost to them. We are typically paid by clients when we deliver qualified inquiries in the form of clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers, as defined by our agreements with them. References to the delivery of customers means a sale or completed customer transaction (e.g., funded loans, bound insurance policies or customer appointments with clients). Because we bear the costs of media, our programs must result in attractive marketing costs to our clients at media costs and margins that provide sound financial outcomes for us. To deliver clicks, leads, calls, applications, and customers to our clients, generally we: own or access targeted media through business arrangements (e.g., revenue sharing arrangements with online publisher partners, large and small) or by purchasing media (e.g., clicks from major search engines); run advertisements or other forms of marketing messages and programs in that media that result in consumer or visitor responses, typically in the form of clicks (by a consumer to further qualification or matching steps, or to online client applications or offerings), leads (e.g., consumer contact information), calls (from a consumer or to a consumer by our owned and operated or contracted call centers or by that of our clients or their agents), applications (e.g., for enrollment or a financial product), or customers (e.g., funded personal loans); continuously seek to display clients and client offerings to visitors or consumers that result in the maximum number of consumers finding solutions that can meet their needs and to which they will take action to respond, resulting in media buying efficiency (e.g., by segmenting media or traffic so that the most appropriate clients or client offerings can be displayed or matched to each segment based on fit, response rates or conversion rates); and through technology and analytics, seek to optimize combination of objectives to satisfy the maximum number of shopping or researching visitors or consumers, deliver on client marketing objectives, effectively compete for online media, and generate a sound financial outcome for us. Our primary financial objective has been and remains creating revenue growth from sustainable sources, at target levels of profitability. Our primary financial objective is not to maximize short-term profits, but rather to achieve target levels of profitability while investing in various growth initiatives, as we continue to believe we are in the early stages of a large, long-term market opportunity. 19 Our business derives its net revenue primarily from fees earned through the delivery of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. Through a vertical focus, targeted media presence and our technology platform, we are able to deliver targeted, measurable marketing results to our clients. Our financial services client vertical represented 58% and 66% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022. Our home services client vertical represented 40% and 33% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022. Other revenue, which primarily includes performance marketing agency and technology services, represented 2% and 1% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022. We generated the majority of our revenue from sales to clients in the United States. One client in our financial services client vertical accounted for 25% of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2022. No other client accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 or 2022. Trends Affecting our Business Client Verticals Our financial services client vertical has been challenged by a number of factors in the past, including the limited availability of high quality media at acceptable margins caused by the acquisition of media sources by competitors, increased competition for high quality media and changes in search engine algorithms. These factors may impact our business in the future again. To offset this impact, we have enhanced our product set to provide greater segmentation, matching, transparency and right pricing of media that have enabled better monetization to provide greater access to high quality media sources. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships and acquisitions to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. In addition, within our financial services client vertical, we derive a significant amount of revenue from auto insurance carriers and the financial results depend on the performance of the auto insurance industry. For example, inflation, weather-related and supply chain events have led to increases in insurance industry loss ratios, which decreased our clients advertising spending and thereby had a material adverse effect on our business. On July 1, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Modernize, a leading home improvement performance marketing company, to broaden our customer and media relationships in the home services client vertical. Our home services client vertical has been expanding over the past several years, primarily driven by successful execution of growth initiatives and synergies with the Modernize acquisition. Our business also benefits from more spending by clients in digital media and performance marketing as digital marketing continues to evolve. Acquisitions Acquisitions have historically been, and continue to be, an important element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital. We have completed several strategic acquisitions in the past, including the acquisitions of Modernize, Mayo Labs and FCE completed in fiscal year 2021, and the acquisitions of AmOne Corp. (AmOne), CloudControlMedia, LLC (CCM) and MyBankTracker.com, LLC (MBT) completed in fiscal year 2019. Development, Acquisition and Retention of High Quality Targeted Media One of the primary challenges of our business is finding or creating media that is high quality and targeted enough to attract prospects for our clients at costs that provide a sound financial outcome for us. In order to grow our business, we must be able to find, develop, or acquire and retain quality targeted media on a cost-effective basis. Consolidation of media sources, changes in search engine algorithms and increased competition for available media has, during some periods, limited and may continue to limit our ability to generate revenue at acceptable margins. To offset this impact, we have developed new sources of media, including entering into strategic partnerships with other marketing and media companies and acquisitions. Such partnerships include takeovers of performance marketing functions for large web media properties; backend monetization of unmatched traffic for clients with large media buys; and white label products for other performance marketing companies. We have also focused on growing our revenue from call center, email, mobile and social media traffic sources. Seasonality Our results are subject to significant fluctuation as a result of seasonality. In particular, our quarters ending December 31 (our second fiscal quarter) are typically characterized by seasonal weakness. In our second fiscal quarters, there is generally lower availability 20 of media during the holiday period on a cost effective basis and some of our clients have lower budgets. In our quarters ending March 31 (our third fiscal quarter), this trend generally reverses with better media availability and often new budgets at the beginning of the year for our clients with fiscal years ending December 31. Our results are also subject to fluctuation as a result of seasonality in our clients business. For example, revenue in our home services client vertical is subject to cyclical and seasonal trends, as the consumer demand for home services typically rises during the spring and summer seasons and declines during the fall and winter seasons. Other factors affecting our clients businesses include macro factors such as credit availability in the market, interest rates, the strength of the economy and employment. Regulations Our revenue has fluctuated in part as a result of federal, state and industry-based regulations and developing standards with respect to the enforcement of those regulations. Our business is affected directly because we operate websites and conduct telemarketing and email marketing, and indirectly affected as our clients adjust their operations as a result of regulatory changes and enforcement activity that affect their industries. Clients in our financial services vertical have been affected by laws and regulations and the increased enforcement of new and pre-existing laws and regulations. The effect of these regulations, or any future regulations, may continue to result in fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. An example of a regulatory change that may affect our business is the amendment of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the TCPA) that affects telemarketing and the consent requirements for certain types of telemarketing calls and automated messaging. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to the automated delivery of voice and text messages are continuously evolving and developing. Our clients may make business decisions based on their own experiences with the TCPA regardless of our products and compliance practices. Those decisions may negatively affect our revenue and profitability. COVID-19 We continue to monitor the impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic that may unfavorably affect our business, such as reductions in client spending on marketing and advertising, drops in media availability or performance, deteriorating consumer spending, fluctuations in interest rates, and credit quality of our receivables. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and may continue to affect our business operations, including our employees, clients, publishers, business partners, and communities, and there is substantial uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. Even after the initial COVID-19 outbreak subsided, we have experienced and may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of its global economic impact, including any economic downturn or recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. Furthermore, we may experience disruptions to our business operations resulting from supply chain disruptions and inflationary pressures affecting auto insurance carrier budgets which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Basis of Presentation Net Revenue Our business generates revenue primarily from fees earned through the delivery of qualified inquiries such as clicks, leads, calls, applications, or customers. We deliver targeted and measurable results through a vertical focus, which includes our financial services client vertical and our home services client vertical. All remaining businesses that are not significant enough for separate reporting are included in other revenue. 21 Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of media and marketing costs, personnel costs, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation expense and facilities expense. Media and marketing costs consist primarily of fees paid to third-party publishers, media owners or managers, or to strategic partners that are directly related to a revenue-generating event and of pay-per-click, or PPC, ad purchases from Internet search companies. We pay these third-party publishers, media owners or managers, strategic partners and Internet search companies on a revenue-share, a cost-per-lead, or CPL, or cost-per-click, or CPC, basis. Personnel costs include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and related taxes and employee benefit costs. Personnel costs are primarily related to individuals associated with maintaining our servers and websites, our call center operations, our editorial staff, client management, creative team, content, compliance group and media purchasing analysts. Costs associated with software incurred in the development phase or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized to cost of revenue over the softwares estimated useful life. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and, to a lesser extent, professional services fees, facilities fees and other costs. Personnel costs for each category of operating expenses generally include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and related taxes, and employee benefit costs. Product Development. Product development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees related to the development and maintenance of our products and media management platform. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our finance, legal, employee benefits and compliance, technical support and other administrative personnel, accounting and legal professional services fees, facilities fees and bad debt expense. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest expense, interest income, and other income and expense. Interest expense is related to imputed interest on post-closing payments related to our acquisitions. We have no borrowing agreements outstanding as of September 30, 2023; however interest expense could increase if, among other things, we enter into a new borrowing agreement to manage liquidity or make additional acquisitions through debt financing. Interest income represents interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, which may increase or decrease depending on market interest rates and the amounts invested. Other income and expense includes gains and losses on foreign currency exchange and other non-operating items. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes We are subject to tax in the United States as well as other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our limited non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience or on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. 22 We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below involve our more significant judgments, assumptions and estimates and, therefore, could have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition; Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets; Stock-based compensation; Business combination; Income taxes; and Valuation of long-lived assets. For further information on our critical and other significant accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2023, filed with the SEC. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenue $ 123,923 100.0 % $ 143,593 100.0 % Cost of revenue (1) 116,274 93.8 131,245 91.4 Gross profit 7,649 6.2 12,348 8.6 Operating expenses: (1) Product development 7,637 6.2 6,826 4.7 Sales and marketing 3,124 2.5 3,100 2.2 General and administrative 6,787 5.5 7,319 5.1 Operating loss (9,899 ) (8.0 ) (4,897 ) (3.4 ) Interest income 166 0.2 7 Interest expense (111 ) (0.1 ) (226 ) (0.2 ) Other income (expense), net 29 (23 ) Loss before income taxes (9,815 ) (7.9 ) (5,139 ) (3.6 ) (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (750 ) (0.6 ) 622 0.5 Net loss $ (10,565 ) (8.5 )% $ (4,517 ) (3.1 )% (1) Cost of revenue and operating expenses include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 2,052 1.7 % $ 2,119 1.5 % Product development 773 0.6 765 0.5 Sales and marketing 640 0.5 652 0.5 General and administrative 1,810 1.5 1,734 1.2 23 Gross Profit Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2023 2022 % Change (In thousands) Net revenue $ 123,923 $ 143,593 (14 %) Cost of revenue 116,274 131,245 (11 %) Gross profit $ 7,649 $ 12,348 (38 %) Net Revenue Net revenue decreased by $19.7 million, or 14%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022. Revenue from our financial services client vertical decreased by $22.9 million, or 24%, primarily due to a decrease in revenue in our insurance business associated with decreased spending by certain insurance carriers to address profitability concerns caused by inflation and higher costs to repair and replace vehicles. This was partially offset by an increase in revenue in our personal loans, credit cards, and banking businesses due to increased media and client budgets. Revenue from our home services client vertical increased by $2.7 million, or 6%, primarily as a result of increased client budgets and successful execution of growth initiatives. Other revenue, which primarily includes performance marketing agency and technology services, contributed $2.4 million of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to $1.9 million of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2022. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue decreased by $15.0 million, or 11%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, primarily driven by decreased media and marketing costs of $20.2 million, partially offset by increased personnel costs of $3.8 million. The decrease in media and marketing costs was associated with lower revenue volumes. The increase in personnel costs was mainly attributable to higher headcount and higher incentive compensation. Gross profit margin, which is the difference between net revenue and cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue, was 6% and 9% for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily attributable to increased personnel costs as a percentage of revenue. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2023 2022 % Change (In thousands) Product development $ 7,637 $ 6,826 12 % Sales and marketing 3,124 3,100 1 % General and administrative 6,787 7,319 (7 %) Operating expenses $ 17,548 $ 17,245 2 % Product Development Expenses Product development expenses increased by $0.8 million, or 12%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, primarily due to increased personnel costs of $1.0 million as a result of higher headcount. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses were approximately flat for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses decreased by $0.5 million, or 7%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, primarily due to decreased professional service fees of $0.4 million. 24 (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 (In thousands) (Provision for) benefit from income taxes $ (750 ) $ 622 The Company performed an assessment on the likelihood of realizing the benefits of its deferred tax assets. As of September 30, 2023, the Company has concluded that it is not more likely than not that the Company would be able to utilize the majority of the deferred tax assets based on available evidence primarily related to historic losses and projected income. However, if there are favorable changes to actual operating results or to projections of future income, the Company may determine that it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets may be realizable and record a material non-cash income tax charge. The Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.8 million and a benefit of $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022. Given the recording of the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company no longer records a benefit for the losses generated in the United States, causing the Company to flip from a tax benefit in the first quarter of 2022 to a tax expense in the first quarter of 2023. The tax provision for the first quarter of 2023 was primarily related to the foreign operations and the tax amortization of goodwill. The tax benefit in the first quarter of 2022 was related to losses of the Company and the foreign operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $56.3 million and cash we expect to generate from future operations. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, internal software development costs, repurchases of our common stock, and acquisitions from time to time. Our acquisitions also may have deferred purchase price components and contingent consideration which requires us to make a series of payments following the acquisition closing date. Our primary operating cash requirements include the payment of media costs, personnel costs, costs of information technology systems and office facilities. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined, in part, by future operating performance and are, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even though we may not need additional funds to fund anticipated liquidity requirements, we may still elect to obtain debt financing or issue additional equity securities for other reasons. In April 2022, our Board of Directors canceled our prior stock repurchase program that commenced in July 2017 and authorized a new stock repurchase program allowing the repurchase of up to $40.0 million worth of common stock. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, we repurchased and retired 177,511 shares of our common stock at an average price of $8.86 per share, at a total cost of $1.6 million (including a broker commission of $0.03 per share). Repurchases under this program took place in the open market and were made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan. The repurchased shares of common stock were recorded as treasury stock and were accounted for under the cost method. As of September 30, 2023, approximately $17.4 million remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to the board authorization. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 (In thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (4,973 ) $ 5,665 Net cash used in investing activities (5,094 ) (3,037 ) Net cash used in financing activities (7,311 ) (10,681 ) 25 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are primarily the result of our net loss adjusted for depreciation and amortization, provision for or benefit from sales returns and doubtful accounts receivable, stock-based compensation expense, non-cash lease expense, deferred income taxes and changes in working capital components. Cash used in operating activities was $5.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $5.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2023 consisted of a net loss of $10.6 million and a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital of $5.2 million, offset by non-cash adjustments of $10.7 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts payable of $3.6 million and a decrease in accrued liabilities of $2.5 million. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to lower marketing and media costs and lower operating expenses. The decrease in accrued liabilities was primarily due to the payment of FY23 incentive compensation. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization expense of $5.3 million, stock-based compensation expense of $5.3 million. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2022 consisted of a net loss of $4.5 million, adjusted for non-cash adjustments of $8.5 million and changes in working capital accounts of $1.6 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of stock-based compensation expense of $5.3 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $4.4 million, and an increase in deferred tax assets of $0.8 million primarily due to benefit from income taxes recorded for the first quarter of fiscal year 2023. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable of $5.8 million, offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $1.9 million and a decrease in accrued liabilities of $1.6 million. The decreases in accounts receivable, accrued liabilities and accounts payable were primarily due to lower revenue levels in the two months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the two months ended September 30, 2021, and the timing of receipts and payments. Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities generally include capital expenditures, capitalized internal software development costs, and acquisitions from time to time. Cash used in investing activities was $5.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to cash used in investing activities of $3.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to internal software development costs of $3.5 million and capital expenditures of $1.6 million. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2022 was due to internal software development costs of $2.6 million and capital expenditures of $0.5 million. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities generally include repurchases of common stock, payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement, proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan, and post-closing payments related to business acquisitions. Cash used in financing activities was $7.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to cash used in financing activities of $10.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2023 was due to payment of post-closing payments and contingent consideration related to acquisitions of $5.3 million, payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $2.2 million, and repurchases of common stock of $1.4 million, offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase plan and exercise of stock options of $1.6 million. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2022 was due to payment of post-closing payments related to acquisitions of $5.5 million, repurchases of common stock of $4.7 million, and the payment of withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $2.0 million, offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase plan of $1.6 million. 26 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations primarily consist of operating leases, post-closing payments and contingent consideration payments recognized from our acquisitions. These contractual obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations as presented in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2023. 27