ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they do not materialize or if they prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, will, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified in Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors below, and those discussed in the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, filed with the SEC. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Management Overview QuinStreet is a leader in performance marketing online. We have built a strong set of capabilities to engage Internet visitors in targeted media and to connect our marketing clients with their potential customers online. We focus on serving clients in large, information-intensive industry verticals where relevant, targeted media and offerings help visitors make informed choices, find the products that match their needs, and thus become qualified customer prospects for our clients. We deliver cost-effective marketing results to our clients most typically in the form of a qualified lead, inquiry, click, call, application, or customer. Leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, and applications can then convert into a customer or sale for clients at a rate that results in an acceptable marketing cost to them. We are typically paid by clients when we deliver qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers as defined by our agreements with them. References to the delivery of customers means a sale or completed customer transaction (e.g., bound insurance policies or customer appointments with clients). Because we bear the costs of media, our programs must deliver value to our clients and provide for a media yield, or generation of an acceptable margin on our media costs, that provides a sound financial outcome for us. To deliver leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, and customers to our clients, generally we: own or access targeted media through business arrangements (e.g., revenue sharing arrangements) or by purchasing media (e.g., clicks from major search engines); run advertisements or other forms of marketing messages and programs in that media to create visitor responses in the form most typically of leads or inquiries (e.g., contact information), clicks (to further qualification or matching steps, or to online client applications or offerings), calls (to our owned and operated call centers or that of our clients or their agents), applications (e.g., for enrollment or a financial product), or customers (e.g., bound insurance policies); match these leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers to client offerings or brands that we believe can meet visitor interests or needs and client targets and requirements; and optimize client matches and media yield such that we achieve desired results for clients and a sound financial outcome for us. 19 Table of Contents Our primary financial objective has been and remains creating revenue growth from sustainable sources, at target levels of profitability. Our primary financial objective is not to maximize profits, but rather to achieve target levels of profitability while investing in various growth initiatives, as we continue to believe we are in the early stages of a large, long-term market opportunity. Our Direct Marketing Services (DMS) business accounted for all of our net revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and substantially all of our net revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014. Our DMS business derives its net revenue from fees earned through the delivery of qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers and, to a lesser extent, display advertisements, or impressions. Through a vertical focus, targeted media presence and our technology platform, we are able to deliver targeted, measurable marketing results to our clients. Our two largest client verticals within our DMS business are financial services and education. Our financial services client vertical represented 45% and 44% of net revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Our education client vertical represented 37% and 36% of net revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Other DMS client verticals, consisting primarily of business-to-business technology, home services and medical, represented 18% and 20% of net revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. We generated the majority of our revenue from sales to clients in the United States. No client accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2015 or 2014. Trends Affecting our Business Client Verticals To date, we have generated the majority of our revenue from clients in our financial services and education client verticals. We expect that a majority of our revenue for the remainder of fiscal year 2016 will continue to be generated from clients in these two client verticals. Our financial services client vertical has been challenged by a number of factors over the past several years, including the limited availability of high quality media at acceptable margins caused by changes in search engine algorithms, acquisition of media sources by competitors and increased competition for quality media. These effects may continue to impact our business in the near future. To offset this impact, we have broadened our product set with enhanced click, lead, call and policy products that have enabled better monetization to provide greater access to high quality media sources. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. Such strategic partnerships include the development and management of, for example, performance marketing technology for major media properties, backend monetization of unmatched traffic for clients and white label products for search engines and other performance marketing platform companies. Our education client vertical has been significantly challenged by regulations and enforcement activity affecting for-profit education institutions over the past several years. For example, in January 2014, the Department of Education initiated an investigation of a publicly traded for-profit education client with respect to its enrollment activities and job placement, among other things, and in July 2014, the Department of Education signed an agreement with the client requiring it to wind down or sell its campuses. In addition, in October 2014, the Department of Education announced final regulations on gainful employment which went into effect on July 1, 2015. The regulations require career college programs to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation which requires the programs graduates annual loan payments to be less than a defined percentage of earnings. Programs that do not pass the test could lose access to federal financial aid, which typically constitutes an important source of funding for these programs. As a result, such programs may be modified, curtailed or eliminated. In July 2015, the Federal Trade Commission initiated an investigation of another publicly traded for-profit education client with respect to its recruiting and enrollment practices. These and other similar regulatory and enforcement activities have affected and are expected to continue to affect our clients businesses and marketing practices, which have and may continue to result in a decrease in these clients spending with us, and fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. To offset the impact these activities have had on the for-profit education clients, we have broadened our product set from our traditional lead business with the addition of better qualified and matched leads or inquiries, clicks and calls; we believe these new enhanced products better match for-profit education client needs in the current regulatory environment. We have also broadened our markets in education to include not-for-profit schools and international markets in Brazil and India. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. 20 Table of Contents Development and Acquisition of Targeted Media One of the primary challenges of our business is finding or creating media that is high quality and targeted enough to attract prospects for our clients at costs that provide a sound financial outcome for us. In order to grow our business, we must be able to find, develop or retain quality targeted media on a cost-effective basis. Consolidation of media sources, changes in search engine algorithms and increased competition for available media has, during some periods, limited and may continue to limit our ability to generate revenue at acceptable margins. Seasonality Our results are subject to significant fluctuation as a result of seasonality. In particular, our quarters ending December 31 (our second fiscal quarter) are typically characterized by seasonal weakness. In our second fiscal quarters, there is lower availability of lead supply from some forms of media during the holiday period on a cost effective basis and some of our clients have lower budgets. In our quarters ending March 31 (our third fiscal quarter), this trend generally reverses with better lead availability and often new budgets at the beginning of the year for our clients with fiscal years ending December 31. Regulations Our revenue has fluctuated as a result of recently adopted or amended regulations and the increased enforcement of existing regulations. Our business is affected directly because we operate websites and conduct telemarketing and email marketing, and indirectly affected as our clients adjust their operations as a result of regulatory changes and enforcement activity that affect their industries. Clients in our financial services vertical have increasingly been affected by laws and regulations as a result of the adoption of new regulations under The DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the increased enforcement of new and pre-existing laws and regulations. In addition, our education client vertical has been significantly affected by the adoption of regulations affecting for-profit education institutions over the past several years, and a higher level of governmental scrutiny is expected to continue. The effect of these regulations, or any future regulations, may continue to result in fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. Another example of a regulatory change that may affect our business is the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the TCPA), which the Federal Communications Commission amended to, among other things, impose heightened consent and opt-out requirements that companies conducting telemarketing must follow. Certain provisions of the regulations became effective in July 2012, and additional regulations requiring prior express written consent for certain types of telemarketing calls became effective in October 2013. Our efforts to comply with the TCPA have thus far had a relatively small negative effect on traffic conversion rates. However, our clients may make business decisions based on their own experiences with the TCPA regardless of our products, and the changes we implemented to comply with the regulations. Those decisions may negatively affect our revenue or profitability. Basis of Presentation General We operate in one reportable segment, DMS. The remainder of our business, which has historically been immaterial, is classified as All Other. See Note 10, Segment Information, to our condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion and financial information regarding our reportable segment. Net Revenue Our DMS business generates revenue from fees earned through the delivery of qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, customers and, to a lesser extent, display advertisements, or impressions. We deliver targeted and measurable results through a vertical focus that we classify into the following client verticals: financial services, education and other (which includes business-to-business technology, home services and medical). 21 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of media costs, personnel costs, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation expense, and amortization of internal software development costs related to revenue-producing technologies. Media costs consist primarily of fees paid to third-party publishers, media owners or managers, or to strategic partners that are directly related to a revenue-generating event and pay-per-click, or PPC, ad purchases from Internet search companies. We pay these third-party publishers, strategic partners and Internet search companies on a revenue-share, a cost-per-lead, or CPL, cost-per-click, or CPC, and cost-per-thousand-impressions, or CPM, basis. Personnel costs include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, and employee benefit costs. Personnel costs are primarily related to individuals associated with maintaining our servers and websites, our call center operations, our editorial staff, client management, creative team, content, compliance group, and media purchasing analysts. Costs associated with software incurred in the development phase or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized in cost of revenue over the softwares estimated useful life. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: product development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and, to a lesser extent, professional services fees, rent and other costs. Personnel costs for each category of operating expenses generally include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions, and employee benefit costs. Product Development. Product development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and rent. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable; however we expect product and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we plan to accelerate revenue growth and profitability. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, advertising, professional services fees, and rent. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable; however we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we plan to accelerate revenue growth and profitability. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our finance, legal, employee benefits and compliance, technical support and other administrative personnel, as well as accounting and legal professional services fees, and insurance. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable; however we expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we plan to accelerate revenue growth and profitability. Interest and Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest and other (expense) income, net, consists primarily of interest expense, interest income, and other income and expense. Interest expense is related to our revolving loan facility, term loan facility, and the related interest rate swap. Borrowings under our revolving loan facility and related interest expense could increase if, among other things, we make additional acquisitions through debt financing. Interest income represents interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which may increase or decrease depending on market interest rates and the amounts invested. Other income and expense includes gains and losses on foreign currency exchange, gains and losses on sales of websites and domain names that were not considered to be strategically important to our business, and other non-operating items. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to tax in the United States as well as other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our limited non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. 22 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience or on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below involve our more significant judgments, assumptions and estimates and, therefore, could have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition; Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets; Stock-based compensation; Income taxes; and Valuation of long-lived assets. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K subsequent to June 30, 2015. For further information on our critical and other significant accounting policies and estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2015, filed with the SEC. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 72,389 100.0 % $ 69,189 100.0 % Cost of revenue (1) 65,795 90.9 63,409 91.6 Gross profit 6,594 9.1 5,780 8.4 Operating expenses: (1) Product development 4,386 6.0 4,956 7.2 Sales and marketing 3,575 4.9 3,667 5.3 General and administrative 4,163 5.8 4,615 6.7 Operating loss (5,530 ) (7.6 ) (7,458 ) (10.8 ) Interest income 6 26 Interest expense (133 ) (0.2 ) (1,180 ) (1.7 ) Other (expense) income, net (57 ) (0.1 ) 2,325 3.4 Loss before income taxes (5,714 ) (7.9 ) (6,287 ) (9.1 ) Provision for taxes (365 ) (0.5 ) Net loss $ (6,079 ) (8.4 )% $ (6,287 ) (9.1 )% (1) Cost of revenue and operating expenses include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 804 1.1 % $ 644 0.9 % Product development 600 0.8 595 0.9 Sales and marketing 425 0.6 464 0.7 General and administrative 675 0.9 572 0.8 Net Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months % Change 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net revenue $ 72,389 $ 69,189 5 % Cost of revenue 65,795 63,409 4 % Gross profit $ 6,594 $ 5,780 14 % Net revenue increased $3.2 million, or 5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. Our financial services client vertical revenue increased $1.6 million, or 5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to strategic partnerships that have increased and diversified our access to quality media and client budgets. In addition, enhanced click, lead, call and policy products have enabled us to access higher quality media for our clients and have led to increased client budgets. Our education client vertical revenue increased $2.1 million, or 8% for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to growth from our broadened product set and markets, offset by declines in our traditional lead business. In addition, there was a one-time deferral of $1.6 million of revenue related to a large for-profit education client in the three months ended September 30, 2014. Our other client verticals revenue decreased $0.5 million or 4%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to decreased client demand in the quarter in our business-to-business technology vertical, offset by increased client demand in our home services client vertical. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue increased $2.4 million, or 4%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014, driven by increased media costs of $3.9 million, offset by decreased amortization of intangible assets of $1.3 million. The increased media costs were due to investments in strategic partnerships and higher revenue volumes. The decreased amortization of intangible assets were attributable to assets from historical acquisitions becoming fully amortized. Gross margin, which is the difference between net revenue and cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue, was 9% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 8% for the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase in gross margin was attributable to decreased amortization of intangible assets, offset by decreased margins from our investment in strategic partnerships. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months % Change 2015 2014 (in thousands) Product development $ 4,386 $ 4,956 (12 %) Sales and marketing 3,575 3,667 (3 %) General and administrative 4,163 4,615 (10 %) Operating expenses $ 12,124 $ 13,238 (8 %) Product Development Expenses Product development expenses decreased $0.6 million, or 12%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. This was primarily due to decreased personnel costs of $0.6 million related to a decrease in average salaries resulting from an increase in India employees as a percentage of total employees. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.1 million, or 3%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses decreased $0.5 million, or 10%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. This was primarily due to decreased legal and audit fees of $0.5 million. 25 Table of Contents Interest and Other (Expense) Income, Net Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months % Change 2015 2014 (in thousands) Interest income $ 6 $ 26 (77 %) Interest expense (133 ) (1,180 ) (89 %) Other (expense) income, net (57 ) 2,325 (102 %) Interest and other (expense) income, net $ (184 ) $ 1,171 (116 %) Interest income was immaterial for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014. Interest expense decreased $1.0 million, or 89%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. The decrease in interest expense was due to decreased debt obligations and the acceleration of approximately $0.3 million of unamortized deferred upfront costs incurred in connection with the Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement in the three months ended September 30, 2014. Other (expense) income, net decreased $2.4 million, or 102%, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. The decrease in other income was primarily due to a decrease in gains on the sale of domain names that were not considered to be strategically important to our business of $2.4 million. Provision for Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Provision for taxes $ (365 ) $ We recorded a valuation allowance against the majority of our deferred tax assets at the end of fiscal year 2014 and continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015 as we believe it is not more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be fully realizable. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to an ongoing state tax examination. Our annual statutory tax rate was 34% for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Due to the effects of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance and our net operating loss, our annual effective tax rate was not meaningful as our income tax amounts were not directly correlated to the amount of loss before income tax for the period. Due to the full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets for the three months ended September 30, 2014, we did not record an income tax expense. Additionally, we had immaterial foreign expenses that were offset by other immaterial benefits that resulted in a zero quarterly provision. Our annual statutory tax rate was 34% for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Due to the effects of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance and our net operating loss, our annual effective tax rate was not meaningful as our income tax amounts were not directly correlated to the amount of loss before income tax for the period. 26 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2015, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $60.7 million, cash we generate from operations, and available borrowings under our $25.0 million revolving loan facility, which is committed until June 2017, and under which we have drawn $15.0 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from our working capital requirements, debt service on our $25.0 million revolving loan facility, and acquisitions from time to time. Our primary operating cash requirements include the payment of media costs, personnel costs, costs of information technology systems, and office facilities. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined, in part, by future operating performance and are, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, and also our ability to access our revolving loan facility. Even though we may not need additional funds to fund anticipated liquidity requirements, we may still elect to obtain additional debt, issue additional equity securities or draw down on or increase our borrowing capacity under our current revolving loan facility for other reasons. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and our available borrowings under the revolving loan facility will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,243 $ (3,501 ) Cash flows used in investing activities (1,725 ) (711 ) Cash flows used in financing activities (1,323 ) (3,560 ) Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are primarily the result of our net loss adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and changes in working capital components. Cash provided by operating activities was $3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to cash flows used in operating activities of $3.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2015 consisted of a net loss of $6.1 million, which included a one-time restructuring charge of $0.2 million, offset by non-cash adjustments of $6.3 million. In addition, there was a net increase in cash from changes in working capital of $3.0 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $3.9 million and stock-based compensation expense net of tax benefits of $2.5 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily due to a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $5.5 million, offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $2.8 million. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets were primarily due to a cash receipt from a federal tax refund. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities were primarily due to bonus payments which occur annually during the three months ended September 30, 2015 and the timing of payments. Cash flows used in operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2014 consisted of a net loss of $6.3 million, which includes a one-time restructuring charge of $0.4 million, offset by non-cash adjustments of $5.8 million. In addition, there was a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital of $3.0 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $5.4 million, gain on sale of domain names that were not considered to be strategically important to our business of $2.5 million, and stock-based compensation expense net of tax benefits of $2.2 million. The changes in working capital accounts 27 Table of Contents were primarily due to a net decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $2.3 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $1.3 million, offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $0.7 million. The net decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities were primarily due to bonus payments which occur annually during the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase prepaid expenses and other assets as well as the decrease in accounts receivable were primarily due to timing of payments and receipts. Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities include capital expenditures, capitalized internal development costs and purchases, sales and maturities of marketable securities. Cash flows used in investing activities was $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to cash flows used in investing activities of $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to capital expenditures and internal software development costs of $1.8 million. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily due to capital expenditures and internal software development costs of $2.6 million and net investments in marketable securities of $0.8 million, offset by proceeds from the sale of domain names that were not considered to be strategically important to our business of $2.7 million. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities include proceeds from exercise of stock options, principal payments on term loan facility and acquisition-related notes payable, withholding taxes related to restricted stock net of share settlement and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Cash used in financing activities was $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to cash flows used in financing activities of $3.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2015 was due to withholding taxes related to restricted stock net share settlement of $1.3 million. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily due to principal payments on our term loan facility and acquisition-related notes payable of $4.5 million and withholding taxes related to restricted stock net share settlements of $0.4 million, offset by proceeds from exercises of stock options of $1.3 million and excess tax benefits from exercises of stock options of $0.1 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have an investment in a variable interest entity of which we are not the primary beneficiary. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations relate to borrowings under our revolving loan facility, acquisition-related notes payable and operating leases. There have been no significant changes to our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2015. 28 Table of Contents Loan Facility As of September 30, 2015, we were party to a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Comerica Bank (the Bank), as administrative agent and sole lender, which consisted of a $25.0 million revolving loan facility maturing on June 11, 2017. Borrowings under the revolving loan facility bear interest at a rate of the Eurodollar rate plus 3.00%, and are secured by substantially all of our assets. Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the revolving loan facility is subject to a borrowing base consisting of eligible receivables and certain other customary conditions. We must pay an annual facility fee of $62,500 and an annual unused fee of 0.25% of the undrawn revolving loan facility commitments. We have the right to prepay the revolving loan facility or permanently reduce the revolving loan facility credit commitments without premium or penalty, in whole or in part at any time. The Credit Agreement, as amended, contains limitations on our ability to sell assets, make acquisitions, pay dividends, incur capital expenditures and requires us to comply with certain additional covenants. We must also comply with certain financial covenants only when there are amounts outstanding under the revolving loan facility and at the time we draw down amounts under the revolving loan facility. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015. As of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015, there was $15.0 million outstanding under the revolving loan facility. Interest Rate Swap During fiscal year 2015, we held an interest rate swap to reduce our exposure to the financial impact of changing interest rates under our term loan facility. In June 2015, in connection with our repayment in full and termination of the term loan facility, we also terminated the interest rate swap agreement. Upon settlement, we recognized an expense of $0.3 million to other (expense) income, net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Headquarter Lease We entered into a lease agreement in February 2010 for approximately 63,998 square feet of office space located at 950 Tower Lane, Foster City, California. The term of the lease began on November 1, 2010 and expires on October 31, 2018. The monthly base rent was abated for the first 12 calendar months under the lease, and was $0.1 million through the 24th calendar month of the term of the lease. Monthly base rent increased to $0.2 million for the subsequent 12 months and now increases approximately 3% after each 12-month anniversary during the remaining term, including any extensions under our options to extend. We have two options to extend the term of the lease for one additional year for each option following the expiration date of the lease or renewal term, as applicable.