ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they do not materialize or if they prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, will, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified in Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors below, and those discussed in the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, filed with the SEC. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Management Overview QuinStreet, Inc. is a leader in performance marketing products and technologies. We specialize in customer acquisition for clients in high value, information-intensive markets or verticals, including financial services, education, home services, and business-to-business technology. Our clients include some of the worlds largest companies and brands in those markets. While the majority of our operations and revenue are in North America, we have emerging businesses in Brazil and India. We deliver measurable and cost-effective marketing results to our clients, typically in the form of a qualified lead, inquiry, click, call, application, or customer. Leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, and applications can then convert into a customer or sale for clients at a rate that results in an acceptable marketing cost to them. We are typically paid by clients when we deliver qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers as defined by our agreements with them. References to the delivery of customers means a sale or completed customer transaction (e.g., bound insurance policies or customer appointments with clients). Because we bear the costs of media, our programs must result in attractive marketing costs to our clients at media costs and margins that provide sound financial outcomes for us. To deliver leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, and customers to our clients, generally we: own or access targeted media through business arrangements (e.g., revenue sharing arrangements) or by purchasing media (e.g., clicks from major search engines); run advertisements or other forms of marketing messages and programs in that media to create visitor responses typically in the form of leads or inquiries (e.g., contact information), clicks (to further qualification or matching steps, or to online client applications or offerings), calls (to our owned and operated call centers or that of our clients or their agents), applications (e.g., for enrollment or a financial product), or customers (e.g., bound insurance policies); match these leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers to client offerings or brands that we believe can meet visitor interests or needs and client targets and requirements; and optimize client matches and media costs such that we achieve desired results for clients and a sound financial outcome for us. Our primary financial objective has been and remains creating revenue growth from sustainable sources, at target levels of profitability. Our primary financial objective is not to maximize profits, but rather to achieve target levels of profitability while investing in various growth initiatives, as we continue to believe we are in the early stages of a large, long-term market opportunity. Our business derives its net revenue from fees earned through the delivery of qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, or customers and, to a lesser extent, display advertisements, or impressions. Through a vertical focus, targeted media presence and our technology platform, we are able to deliver targeted, measurable marketing results to our clients. 15 Our two largest client verticals are financial services and education. Our financial services client vertical represented 67% and 61% of net re venue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 . Our education client vertical represented 21% and 24% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 . Our other client verticals, consisting of home services, business-to- business technology and medical, represented 12% and 15% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 . We generated the majority of our revenue from sales to clients in the United States. One client in our financial services client vertical accounted for 24% and 11% of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016. No other client accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016. Trends Affecting our Business Client Verticals To date, we have generated the majority of our revenue from clients in our financial services and education client verticals. We expect that a majority of our revenue for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 will continue to be generated from clients in these two client verticals. In addition, revenue from our financial services client vertical is expected to increase as a percentage of our total revenue. Our financial services client vertical has been challenged by a number of factors in the past, including the limited availability of high quality media at acceptable margins caused by acquisition of media sources by competitors, increased competition for high quality media and changes in search engine algorithms. These effects may impact our business in the future again. To offset this impact, we have broadened our product set with enhanced click, lead, call and policy products that have enabled better monetization to provide greater access to high quality media sources. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. Our financial services client vertical also benefits from more spending by clients in digital media and performance marketing as digital marketing continues to evolve. Our education client vertical has been significantly challenged by regulations and enforcement activity affecting U.S. for-profit education institutions over the past several years. For example, in July 2015, the Federal Trade Commission initiated an investigation of a publicly traded U.S. for-profit education client with respect to its recruiting and enrollment practices. These and other similar regulatory and enforcement activities have affected and are expected to continue to affect our clients businesses and marketing practices, which have and may continue to, result in a decrease in these clients spending with us and other vendors and fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. To offset the impact these regulatory and investigative activities have had on the U.S. for-profit education clients, we have broadened our product set from our traditional lead business with the addition of better qualified and matched leads or inquiries, clicks and calls; we believe these new enhanced products better match U.S. for-profit education client needs in the current regulatory environment. We have also broadened our markets in education to include not-for-profit schools and international markets in Brazil and India. Moreover, we have entered into strategic partnerships to increase and diversify our access to quality media and client budgets. Development, Acquisition and Retention of High Quality Targeted Media One of the primary challenges of our business is finding or creating media that is high quality and targeted enough to attract prospects for our clients at costs that provide a sound financial outcome for us. In order to grow our business, we must be able to find, develop and retain quality targeted media on a cost-effective basis. Consolidation of media sources, changes in search engine algorithms and increased competition for available media has, during some periods, limited and may continue to limit our ability to generate revenue at acceptable margins. To offset this impact, we have developed new sources of media, including entering into strategic partnerships with other marketing and media companies. Such partnerships include takeovers of performance marketing functions for large web media properties; backend monetization of unmatched traffic for clients with large media buys; and white label products for other performance marketing companies. We have also focused on growing our revenue from email, mobile and social media traffic sources. Seasonality Our results are subject to significant fluctuation as a result of seasonality. In particular, our quarters ending December 31 (our second fiscal quarter) are typically characterized by seasonal weakness. In our second fiscal quarters, there is lower availability of lead supply from some forms of media during the holiday period on a cost effective basis and some of our clients have lower budgets. In 16 our quarters ending March 31 (our third fiscal quarter), this trend generally reverses with better lead availability and oft en new budgets at the beginning of the year for our clients with fiscal years ending December 31. Our results are also subject to fluctuation as a result of seasonality in our clients business. For example, revenue in our clients lending businesses is subject to cyclical and seasonal trends. Home sales typically rise during the spring and summer months and decline during the fall and winter months, while refinancing and home equity activity is principally driven by mortgage interest rates as well as real estate values. Other factors affecting our clients businesses include macro factors such as credit availability in the market, the strength of the economy and employment. Regulations Our revenue has fluctuated in part as a result of federal, state and industry-based regulations and developing standards with respect to the enforcement of those regulations. Our business is affected directly because we operate websites and conduct telemarketing and email marketing, and indirectly affected as our clients adjust their operations as a result of regulatory changes and enforcement activity that affect their industries. Clients in our financial services vertical have been affected by laws and regulations and the increased enforcement of new and pre-existing laws and regulations. In addition, our education client vertical has been significantly affected by the adoption of regulations affecting U.S. for-profit education institutions over the past several years, and a high level of governmental scrutiny is expected to continue. The effect of these regulations, or any future regulations, may continue to result in fluctuations in the volume and mix of our business with these clients. An example of a regulatory change that may affect our business is the amendment of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the TCPA) that affects telemarketing calls. Our efforts to comply with the TCPA have thus far had a relatively small negative effect on traffic conversion rates. However, our clients may make business decisions based on their own experiences with the TCPA regardless of our products, and the changes we implemented to comply with the regulations. Those decisions may negatively affect our revenue or profitability. Basis of Presentation Net Revenue Our business generates revenue from fees earned through the delivery of qualified leads, inquiries, clicks, calls, applications, customers and, to a lesser extent, display advertisements, or impressions. We deliver targeted and measurable results through a vertical focus that we classify into the following client verticals: financial services, education and other (which includes home services, business-to-business technology and medical). Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of media and marketing costs, personnel costs, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation expense, and amortization of internal software development costs related to revenue-producing technologies. Media and marketing costs consist primarily of fees paid to third-party publishers, media owners or managers, or to strategic partners that are directly related to a revenue-generating event and of pay-per-click, or PPC, ad purchases from Internet search companies. We pay these third-party publishers, media owners or managers, strategic partners and Internet search companies on a revenue-share, a cost-per-lead, or CPL, cost-per-click, or CPC, or cost-per-thousand-impressions, or CPM, basis. Personnel costs include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and employee benefit costs. Personnel costs are primarily related to individuals associated with maintaining our servers and websites, our call center operations, our editorial staff, client management, creative team, content, compliance group, and media purchasing analysts. Costs associated with software incurred in the development phase or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized in cost of revenue over the softwares estimated useful life. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: product development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and, to a lesser extent, professional services fees, facilities fees and other 17 costs. Personnel costs for each category o f operating expenses generally include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses, commissions and employee benefit costs. Product Development. Product development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees related to the development and maintenance of our products and media management platform. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities fees and professional services fees. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our finance, legal, employee benefits and compliance, technical support and other administrative personnel, as well as accounting and legal professional services fees, and facilities fees. We are constraining expenses generally to the extent practicable. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, consists primarily of interest income, interest expense, and other income and expense. Interest income represents interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, which may increase or decrease depending on market interest rates and the amounts invested. Interest expense is related to our revolving loan facility which matured in June 2017. We have no borrowing agreements outstanding as of September 30, 2017; however interest expense could increase if, among other things, we enter into a new borrowing agreement to manage liquidity or make additional acquisitions through debt financing. Other income and expense includes gains and losses on foreign currency exchange, gains and losses on sales of websites and domain names that were not considered to be strategically important to our business, and other non-operating items. Benefit from Income Taxes We are subject to tax in the United States as well as other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our limited non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax. Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience or on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below involve our more significant judgments, assumptions and estimates and, therefore, could have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition; Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets; Stock-based compensation; Income taxes; and Valuation of long-lived assets. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K subsequent to June 30, 2017. For further information on our critical and other significant accounting policies and 18 estimates, see Part II, Item 7 Manage ments Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, filed with the SEC. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 19 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (In thousands) Net revenue $ 87,418 100.0 % $ 73,438 100.0 % Cost of revenue (1) 75,940 86.9 67,808 92.3 Gross profit 11,478 13.1 5,630 7.7 Operating expenses: (1) Product development 3,214 3.7 3,954 5.4 Sales and marketing 2,447 2.8 2,590 3.5 General and administrative 4,460 5.0 4,031 5.5 Operating income (loss) 1,357 1.6 (4,945 ) (6.7 ) Interest income 37 21 Interest expense (156 ) (0.2 ) Other income, net 43 135 0.2 Income (loss) before taxes 1,437 1.6 (4,945 ) (6.7 ) Benefit from taxes 8 1,376 1.9 Net income (loss) $ 1,445 1.6 % $ (3,569 ) (4.8 )% (1) Cost of revenue and operating expenses include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 925 1.1 % $ 971 1.3 % Product development 476 0.5 536 0.7 Sales and marketing 299 0.3 357 0.5 General and administrative 737 0.8 743 1.0 Gross Profit Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2017 2016 % Change (In thousands) Net revenue $ 87,418 $ 73,438 19 % Cost of revenue 75,940 67,808 12 % Gross profit $ 11,478 $ 5,630 104 % Net Revenue Net revenue increased $14.0 million, or 19%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016. Revenue from our financial services client vertical increased $14.0 million, or 31%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016, primarily due to our enhanced product set that provides greater segmentation, transparency, and right pricing of media which have enabled access to more media and client budgets. Revenue from our education client vertical increased $0.5 million, or 3%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016, primarily due to increased client demand from international education clients, partially offset by decreased client demand from U.S. education clients. Revenue from our other client verticals decreased $0.5 million, or 5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016, primarily due to decreased client demand in our business-to-business technology client vertical, partially offset by increased client demand in our home services client vertical. 20 Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue increased $8.1 million, or 12%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016, driven by increased media and marketing costs of $11.7 million, partially offset by decreased personnel costs of $2.2 million and decreased amortization of intangible assets of $0.8 million. The increase in media and marketing costs is primarily due to higher revenue volumes . The decrease in personnel costs is primarily due to lower headcount largely driven by the corporate restructuring announced in November 2016, partially offset by increased incentive compensation associated with the expected achievement of performance objectives for fiscal year 2018. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets is attributable to assets from historical acquisitions becoming fully amortized. Gross margin, which is the difference between net revenue and cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue, was 13% for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 8% for the three months ended September 30, 2016. The increase in gross margin was primarily attributable to decreased personnel costs and decreased amortization of intangible assets, partially offset by a higher proportion of our revenue coming from our financial services client vertical, which tend to have higher media and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue . Operating Expenses Three Months Ended Three September 30, Months 2017 2016 % Change (In thousands) Product development $ 3,214 $ 3,954 (19 %) Sales and marketing 2,447 2,590 (6 %) General and administrative 4,460 4,031 11 % Operating expenses $ 10,121 $ 10,575 (4 %) Product Development Expenses Product development expenses decreased $0.7 million, or 19%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016. This was primarily due to decreased personnel costs of $0.6 million related to the corporate restructuring announced in November 2016, partially offset by increased incentive compensation associated with the expected achievement of performance objectives for fiscal year 2018. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.1 million, or 6%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016, due to decreased personnel costs related to the corporate restructuring announced in November 2016, partially offset by increased incentive compensation associated with the expected achievement of performance objectives for fiscal year 2018. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $0.4 million, or 11%, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016, primarily due to increased professional services fees of $0.5 million related to the material weakness identified in fiscal year 2017. Personnel costs remained flat due to the corporate restructuring announced in November 2016, offset by increased incentive compensation associated with the expected achievement of performance objectives for fiscal year 2018. Benefit from Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (In thousands) Benefit from taxes $ 8 $ 1,376 21 We recorded a valuation allowance against the majority of our deferred tax assets at the end of fiscal year 2014 and continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2017 as we believe it is not more likel y than not that the net deferred tax assets will be fully realizable. We recorded an immaterial benefit from income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2017. We recorded a benefit from income taxes of $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as a result of a tax refund from an amended state tax return filing. Our annual statutory tax rate was 34% for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016. Due to the effects of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance and our historical net operating losses, our annual effective tax rate was not meaningful as our income tax amounts were not directly correlated to the amount of income or losses before income taxes for the periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2017, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $50.4 million and cash we expect to generate from future operations. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, internal software development costs, and acquisitions from time to time. Our primary operating cash requirements include the payment of media costs, personnel costs, costs of information technology systems, and office facilities. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined, in part, by future operating performance and are, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even though we may not need additional funds to fund anticipated liquidity requirements, we may still elect to obtain debt financing or issue additional equity securities for other reasons. We believe that our principal sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,324 $ 1,207 Net cash used in investing activities (667 ) (1,006 ) Net cash used in financing activities (851 ) (347 ) Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are primarily the result of our net income (loss) adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and changes in working capital components. Cash provided by operating activities was $2.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to cash flows provided by operating activities of $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2017 consisted of a net income of $1.4 million and non-cash adjustments of $4.8 million. In addition, there was a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital of $4.0 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $2.3 million and stock-based compensation expense of $2.4 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily attributable to an increase in accounts receivable of $5.0 million and an increase in accounts payable of $2.3 million due to the timing of receipts and payments. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2016 consisted of a net loss of $3.6 million, which included a cash receipt from a state tax refund of $1.4 million , offset by non-cash adjustments of $5.9 million. In addition, there was a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital of $1.1 million. The non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation 22 and amortization of $3.4 million and stock-based compensation expense of $2.6 million. The changes in working capital accounts were primarily due to a decrease in accrued liabilities of $3.8 million, offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $2.8 million. The decrease in accrued liabilities was primarily due to the timing of payments, including the fiscal year 2016 bonus . Th e decrease in accounts receivable was due to the timing of receipts. Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities generally include capital expenditures and capitalized internal software development costs. Cash used in investing activities was $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to cash flows used in investing activities of $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to capital expenditures and internal software development costs of $0.7 million and $1.1 million. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities generally include withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement and repurchases of common stock. Cash used in financing activities was $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to cash flows used in financing activities of $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2017 was due to withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $0.7 million and repurchases of common stock of $0.1 million. Cash used in financing activities in the three months ended September 30, 2016 was due to withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock, net of share settlement of $0.3 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have an investment in a variable interest entity of which we are not the primary beneficiary and as to which we do not have any material obligations. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations relate to operating leases. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017. Headquarters Lease We entered into a lease agreement in February 2010 for approximately 63,998 square feet of office space located at 950 Tower Lane, Foster City, California. The term of the lease began on November 1, 2010 and expires on October 31, 2018. The monthly base rent was abated for the first 12 calendar months under the lease, and was $0.1 million through the 24th calendar month of the term of the lease. Monthly base rent increased to $0.2 million for the subsequent 12 months and now increases approximately 3% after each 12-month anniversary during the remaining term, including any optional extensions. We have two options to extend the term of the lease for one additional year for each option following the expiration date of the lease or renewal term, as applicable.