Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This annual report on Form 10-K and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, SWK Technologies, Inc., Secure Cloud Services, Inc., and Critical Cyber Defense Corp. (together the Company, we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. 20 Table of Contents Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview SilverSun Technologies, Inc. is engaged in providing transformational business management applications and technologies and professional consulting services to small and medium size companies, primarily in the manufacturing, distribution and service industries. We are executing a multi-pronged business strategy centered on recurring revenue, customer retention and on rapidly increasing the size of our installed customer base. The growth of our customer base is accomplished via our traditional marketing programs, via our Sage Partner Success Program and via acquisitions. After a customer is secured, our strategy is to up-sell and cross-sell, providing the customer with advanced technologies and third-party add-ons that help them transform their business. These add-on products could include application hosting, cybersecurity, warehouse management, human capital management, payment automation, sales tax compliance or any number of other products that we represent. Many of these incremental products and services are billed on a subscription basis, often paying monthly for the service, which increases our monthly recurring revenue (MRR). This strategy increases the average revenue per customer, which facilitates our continued growth, and reduces our cost of customer acquisition, which enhances our profitability profile. Our core strength is rooted in our ability to discover and identify the driving forces of change that are affecting or will affect businesses in a wide range of industries. We invest valuable time and resources to fully understand how technology is transforming the business management landscape and what current or emerging innovations are deserving of a clients attention. By leveraging this knowledge and foresight, our growing list of clients are empowered with the means to more effectively manage their businesses; to capitalize on real-time insight drawn from their data resources; and to materially profit from enhanced operational functionality, process flexibility and expedited process execution. As Microsoft Certified Systems Engineers and Microsoft Certified Professionals, our staff offers a host of mission critical services, including cybersecurity, business continuity, disaster recovery, application hosting, remote network monitoring, server implementation, support and assistance, and technical design of network infrastructure, among other services. We compete with numerous large and small companies in this market sector, both nationally and locally. Distinguished as one of the largest Sage ERP X3 practices in North America, we resell enterprise resource planning software published by Sage, which addresses the financial accounting requirements of small- and medium-size businesses focused on manufacturing and distribution. We also offer services related to these sales, including installation, support and training. These product sales are primarily packaged software programs installed on a user workstation, on a local area network server, or in a hosted environment. The programs perform and support a wide variety of functions related to accounting, including financial reporting, accounts payable, accounts receivable and inventory management. We employ class instructors and host formal, topic-specific, training classes, typically on-site at our clients facilities. Our instructors must pass annual subject matter examinations required by Sage to retain their product-based teaching certifications. We also provide end-user technical support services through our support/help desk, which is available during normal business hours, Monday through Friday. Our team of qualified product and technology consultants assist customers that contact us with questions about product features, functions, usability issues and configurations. The support/help desk offers services in a variety of ways, including prepaid services, time and materials billed as utilized and annual support contracts. Our customers can communicate with our support/help desk through email, telephone and fax channels. 21 Table of Contents Led by specialized project managers, we provide professional services ranging from software customization to data migration to small- and medium-size business consulting. We also are resellers of the Warehouse Management System (WMS) software published by High Jump, Inc. (High Jump), which develops warehouse management software for middle market distributors. The primary purpose of a WMS is to control the movement and storage of materials within an operation and process the associated transactions. Directed picking, directed replenishment, and directed put-away are the key to WMS. The detailed setup and processing within a WMS can vary significantly from one software vendor to another. However, the basic WMS will use a combination of item, location, quantity, unit of measure and order information to determine where to stock, where to pick, and in what sequence to perform these operations. The Accellos WMS software improves accuracy and efficiency, streamlines materials handling, meets retail compliance requirements, and refines inventory control. Accellos also works as part of a complete operational solution by integrating seamlessly with RF hardware, accounting software, shipping systems and warehouse automation equipment. We market the Accellos solution to our existing and new medium-sized business clients. Investing in the acquisition of other companies and proprietary business management solutions has been an important growth strategy for our Company, allowing us to rapidly expand into new geographic markets and create new and exciting profit centers. To date, we have completed a series of strategic ventures that have served to fundamentally strengthen our Companys operating platform and materially expand our footprint to nearly every U.S. state. More specifically, over the past fifteen years, we have outright acquired, acquired select assets of or entered into revenue sharing agreements with Business Tech Solutions Group, Inc.; Wolen Katz Associates; AMP-BEST Consulting, Inc.; IncorTech; Micro-Point, Inc.; HighTower, Inc.; Point Solutions, LLC; SGEN, LLC., ESC, Inc., 2000 SOFT, Inc., Productive Tech Inc., The Macabe Associates, Oates & Co; Pinsight Technology, Inc.; Info Sys Management, Inc., Nellnube, Inc. and Partners in Technology Inc. Additionally, it is our intention to continue to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. During 2019 the Company continued to expand its customer base and growth trend which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. In addition, the Company successfully completed the sale of its Mapadoc EDI in the third quarter, selling all Intellectual Property and consulting practices related to the product to SPS Commerce for $11.5 million cash on August 26, 2019. The Company, which had not previously been seeking to sell the division, decided to move forward with the transaction after evaluating the following variables: The rate of growth of the ERP products with which Mapadoc integrates; The rate of growth, year over year, of Mapadoc itself; Technological threats; The cost of developing new integrations, with other ERP solutions and funding new go-to-market strategies for these integrations once developed; The valuation offered for the sale, and how that valuation compared to other consummated transactions for similarly situated business applications. 22 Table of Contents After evaluating these and other variables and engaging an investment bank to provide guidance on the valuation, the Company subsequently closed the transaction. The Company now intends to use the proceeds of the transaction to further enhance its business and to maximize shareholder value. The actions under consideration, which are illustrative and not exhaustive, include: A special dividend A stock buyback Acquisitions The Company has engaged an investment bank to identify potential acquisitions for the Company which will enhance and accelerate its growth profile. Mergers The Company will evaluate potential mergers with larger companies that seek to become part of a publicly-traded entity and which could enhance the rate of growth and profitability of the Company. On September 6, 2019, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination of Certificate of Designations (the Certificate of Elimination) with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The Certificate of Withdrawal eliminated the Companys Series B Preferred Stock, par value $.001 per share (the Series B Preferred), from the Companys Certificate of Incorporation. Prior to filing the Certificate of Elimination, Mark Meller, the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and owner of the only share of Series B Preferred, cancelled the only share of Series B Preferred issued and outstanding. On October 10, 2019, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program, under which the Company may repurchase up to $2 million of its outstanding common stock. Under this new stock repurchase program, the Company may repurchase shares in accordance with all applicable securities laws and regulations, including Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The extent to which the Company repurchases its shares, and the timing of such repurchases, will depend upon a variety of factors, including market conditions, regulatory requirements and other corporate considerations, as determined by the Companys management. The repurchase program may be extended, suspended or discontinued at any time. The Company expects to finance the program from existing cash resources. As of March 25, 2020, no repurchases have been made. On December 24, 2019, the Company announced the payment of a $0.50 special cash dividend per share of Common Stock payable on January 14, 2020 for an aggregate amount of $2,250,636. Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased $2,398,664 (6.64%) to $38,502,482 as compared to $36,103,818 for the year ended December 31, 2018. Software sales increased by $1,554,860 to $6,876,682 in 2019 from $5,321,822 in 2018 for an overall increase of 29.22%. This increase was primarily due to an increase in sales of cloud based ERP. Service revenue increased by $843,804 to $31,625,800 in 2019 from $30,781,996 in 2018 for an overall increase of 2.70%. The overall increases are primarily due to increase in services related to increase volume of sales of software. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased $823,604 (5.94%) to $14,678,454 as compared to $13,854,850 for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in overall gross profit for this period is largely attributable to the increase in revenues from software sales. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the overall gross profit percentage was 38.1% as compared to 38.4 % for the year ended December 31, 2018. The gross profit attributed to software sales increased $696,774 to $2,697,090 for 2019 from $2,000,316 in 2018 which resulted in an increase in the gross profit percentage from 37.60% in 2018 to 39.2% for 2019. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time which causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. The gross profit attributed to services increased $126,830 to $11,981,364 for 2019 from $11,854,534 due to increased software sales. The gross profit percentage attributed to services decreased to 37.90% in 2019 from 38.50% in 2018. This is due to a slight decrease in the gross profit of some of the recent acquisitions. 23 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $526,441 (8.34%) to $6,838,745 for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $6,312,304 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This is due to increased sales personnel expense as well as an increase in both outside sales expense and professional development. General and administrative expenses increased $792,048 (9.90%) to $8,772,965 for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $7,980,917 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This is primarily as a result of increases in payroll and related expenses associated with the addition of management personnel, reclassification of employees to general and administrative from other departments, as well as an increase in bad debt expense. In addition, the Company incurred extraordinary one-time legal expenses of approximately $115,000 associated with the cost of defense of the previously announced and settled shareholder derivative suit. Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $720,035 as compared to $649,427 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase is primarily due to the amortization of the 2019 acquisition and the internally developed software what was placed into service during 2019 and well as the addition of three capital leases. Impairment for intangible asset expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $ 236,860 as compared to $0 for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase is due to the write off of software that will no longer be marketed. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were calculated based on the estimated tax rate. The Federal effective rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to Incentive Stock Options (ISO) and 50% of general meal and 100% of general entertainment expense which are not tax deductible. The total benefit for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $444,006. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were calculated based on the estimated tax rate. The Federal effective rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to change in federal statutory rate described above and Incentive Stock Options (ISO) and 50% of general meal and 100% of general entertainment expense which are not tax deductible. The total benefit for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $281,212. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting and other markets with solid revenue streams and established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. 24 Table of Contents On May 6, 2014, SWK acquired certain assets of ESC, Inc. pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $350,000 (the ESC Note). The ESC Note matures on April 1, 2019. Monthly payments are $6,135 including interest at 2% per year. At December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the outstanding balance was $0 and $30,521, respectively. On July 6, 2015, SWK acquired certain assets of ProductiveTech Inc. (PTI) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for cash of $500,000 and a promissory note for $600,000 (the PTI Note). The PTI Note is due in 60 months from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two and one half (2.5%) percent. Monthly payments including interest are $10,645. At December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the outstanding balance on the PTI Note was $73,899 and $198,106, respectively. On May 31, 2018, SWK acquired certain assets of Info Sys Management, Inc. (ISM) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for cash of $300,000 and a promissory note issued in the aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 (the ISM Note). The ISM Note is due five years from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two percent (2%) per annum. Monthly payments including interest are $17,528. The ISM Note has an optional conversion feature where the holder may, at its sole and exclusive option, elect to convert, at any time and from time to time, until payment in full of the ISM Note, all of the outstanding principal amount of the ISM Note, plus accrued interest, into shares (the Conversion Shares) of the Companys Common Stock, (Common Stock) at per share price equal to $4.03, a price equal to the average closing price of its Common Stock for the five (5) trading days immediately preceding the issuance date of the ISM Note (the Fixed Conversion Price). At December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 the outstanding balance on the ISM Note was $710,420 and $904,436 respectively. On May 31, 2018, Secure Cloud Services acquired certain assets of Nellnube, Inc. (Nellnube) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a promissory note issued in the aggregate principal amount of $400,000 (the Nellnube Note). The Nellnube Note is due five years from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two percent (2%) per annum. Monthly payments including interest are $7,011. The Nellnube Note has an optional conversion feature where the holder may, at its sole and exclusive option, elect to convert, at any time and from time to time, until payment in full of the Nellnube Note, all of the outstanding principal amount of the Nellnube Note, plus accrued interest, into shares (the Conversion Shares) of the Companys Common Stock, (Common Stock) at per share price equal to $4.03, a price equal to the average closing price of its Common Stock for the five (5) trading days immediately preceding the issuance date of the Nellnube Note (the Fixed Conversion Price). At December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 the outstanding balance on the Nellnube Note was $284,168 and $361,774 respectively. On January 1, 2019, SWK acquired certain assets of Partners in Technology, Inc. (PIT) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for cash of $60,000 and the issuance of a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $174,000 (the PIT Note). The PIT Note is due in 36 months from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two percent (2.0%) per annum. Monthly payments including interest are $4,984. At December 31, 2019 the outstanding balance was $121,968. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company had a net increase in cash of $6,757,544. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash used in operating activities of continuing operations The Company used $903,307 in cash from continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to using $267,486 of cash for continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase is primarily due the increase in accounts receivable and the decrease in income tax payable. Cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 provided cash of $8,152,790 as compared to using $697,822 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase is due to the sale of Mapadoc EDI. Cash used in financing activities of continuing operations Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 used cash of $870,170 as compared to using cash of $565,507 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase in cash used in financing activities is mostly attributed to the payment of a cash dividend in January 2019 as well as additional loan payments for 2018 and 2019 acquisitions. Cash flows from discontinued operations Operating activities for discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 provided cash of $505,910 as compared to $1,562,048 for the same period in 2018. This is due to the fact that Mapadoc EDI was sold in August 2019, providing eight months of operating activities in 2019 as compared to the twelve months in 2018. 25 Table of Contents Investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 used cash of $127,679 as compared to $365,723 for the same period in 2018. This was due to less software being put into production in 2019. The Company believes that as a result of funds available from the sale of its Mapadoc division, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months from the date of issuance of these financial statements. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations because of inflation for the year ended December 31, 2019. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, intangible assets, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified below the accounting policies, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition The Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of Topic 606 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. Topic 606 defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation, among others. Topic 606 also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining customer contracts. With the adoption of ASC 606, the Company has elected the significant financing component practical expedient. In determining the transaction price, the Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component as the Company expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less. Software product revenue is recognized when the product is delivered to the customer and the Companys performance obligation is fulfilled. Service revenue is recognized when the professional consulting, maintenance or other ancillary services are provided to the customer. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are classified as revenue, and the shipping and handling costs incurred are included in cost of sales. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable consist primarily of invoices for maintenance and professional services. Full payment for software ordered by customers is primarily due in advance of ordering from the software supplier. Payments for maintenance and support plan renewals are due before the beginning of the maintenance period. Terms under our professional service agreements are generally 50% due in advance and the balance on completion of the services. The Company maintains an allowance for bad debt estimated by considering a number of factors, including the length of time the amounts are past due, the Companys previous loss history and the customers current ability to pay its obligations. Accounts are written off against the allowance when deemed uncollectable. 26 Table of Contents Unbilled Services The Company recognizes revenue on its professional services as those services are performed. Unbilled services represent the revenue recognized but not yet invoiced. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but tested for impairment annually or whenever indicators of impairment exist. These indicators may include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business or other factors. Definite Lived Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets The values assigned to intangible assets were based on an independent valuation. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over the useful lives based on the estimate of the use of economic benefit of the asset using the straight-line amortization method. The Company assesses potential impairment of its intangible assets and other long-lived assets when there is evidence that recent events or changes in circumstances have made recovery of an assets carrying value unlikely. Factors the Company considers important, which may cause impairment include, among others, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends, and significant underperformance relative to historical or projected operating results. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as net operating loss carryforwards. Based on ASU 2015-17, all deferred tax assets or liabilities are classified as long-term. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company has federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards which are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Reform includes a number of changes in existing tax law impacting businesses including a permanent reduction in the U.S. federal statutory rate from 34% to 21%, effective on January 1, 2018. Under U.S. GAAP, changes in tax rates and tax law are accounted for in the period of enactment and deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the enacted tax rate. The rate reconciliation includes the Companys assessment of the accounting under the Tax Reform and is based on information that was available to management at the time the consolidated financial statements were prepared. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. Tax years 2016 to 2019 remain open to examination for both the U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2019, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.