Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiary (the Company) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a business application, technology and consulting company providing strategies and solutions to meet our clients information, technology and business management needs. Our services and technologies enable customers to manage, protect and monetize their enterprise assets whether on-premise or in the Cloud. As a value added reseller of business application software, we offer solutions for accounting and business management, financial reporting, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Warehouse Management Systems (WMS), Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and Business Intelligence (BI). Additionally, we have our own development staff building software solutions for Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), time and billing, and various ERP enhancements. Our value-added services focus on consulting and professional services, specialized programming, training, and technical support. We have a dedicated network services practice that provides managed services, hosting, business continuity, cloud, email and web services. Our customers are nationwide, with concentrations in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area, Chicago, Dallas, Arizona and Southern California. Our core business is divided into the following practice areas: ERP (Enterprise Resource Management) and Accounting Software We are a value-added reseller for a number of industry-leading ERP applications. We are a Sage Software Authorized Business Partner and Sage Certified Gold Development Partner. Forty-five percent of our customer base consists of Sage ERP X3, Sage 100 ERP, Sage 500 ERP, and Sage BusinessWorks customers. We believe we are among the largest Sage ERP X3 partners in North America, with a sales and implementation presence complemented by a scalable software development practice for customizations and enhancements. Due to the growing demand for true cloud-based ERP solutions, we have added two (2) industry leading applications to our ERP portfolio: (1) NetSuite ERP, among the worlds leading cloud ERP solutions; and (2) Acumatica, a browser-based ERP solution that can be offered on premise, in the public cloud, or in a private cloud. We develop and resell a variety of add-on solutions to all our ERP and accounting packages that help customize the installation to our customers needs and streamline their operations. 19 Table of Contents Value-Added Services for ERP We go beyond simply reselling software packages; we have a consulting and professional services organization that manages the process as we move from the sales stage into implementation, go live, and production. We work inside our customers organizations to ensure all software and Information Technology (IT) solutions are enhancing their business needs. A significant portion of our services revenue comes from continuing to work with existing customers as their business needs change, upgrading from one version of software to another, or providing additional software solutions to help them grow their revenue. We have a dedicated help desk team that fields hundreds of calls every week. Our custom programming department builds specialized software packages as well as off the shelf enhancements, time and billing software, and a cloud solution dedicated to the craft brewing industry. EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) Software and Services EDI is the computer to computer exchange of standard business documents, such as purchase orders and invoices, in electronic format. A standard file format is established for each kind of document in order to facilitate the exchange of data across a variety of platforms and programs. We have a proprietary software solution, MAPADOC, which is fully integrated with the Sage ERPs. MAPADOC allows businesses to dramatically cut data entry time by eliminating duplicate entries and reduces costly errors with trading partners. MAPADOC is the only EDI solution that is built within the framework of the Sage ERPs, allowing customers to stay within one application to get their job done. Network and Managed Services We provide comprehensive network and managed services designed to eliminate the IT concerns of our customers. Businesses can focus on their core strengths rather than technology issues. We adapt our solutions for virtually any type of business, from large national and international product and service providers, to small businesses with local customers. Our business continuity services provide automatic on and off site backups, complete encryption, and automatic failure testing. We also provide email and web security, IT consulting, managed network, and emergency IT services. Our focus in the network and managed services practice is to focus on industry verticals in order to demonstrate our ability to better understand our customers needs. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 the Company continued to expand its customer base and growth trend which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. 1) Revenues increased 31.6% from the same three month period in the prior year. 2) Income from operations increased to $557,967 as compared to $201,642 for the same three month period in the prior year. 3) Net income was $521,167 as compared to $120,741 for the same three month period in the prior year. 4) As a result of an increase in sales and marketing expense, we continue to lay the foundation for continued growth. 5) Sales of the Companys proprietary, cloud-based business management solutions created specifically for the U.S. craft brewery and distribution industry has continued to increase since its introduction to market in early 2012; and the number of new sales prospects continues to climb. 6) Continued to book significant orders for Sage ERP X3. Revenues Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased $1,558,489 (31.6%) to $6,483,114 as compared to $4,924,625 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Software sales increased by $772,772 to $1,382,742 in 2015 from $609,970 in 2014 for an overall increase of 126.7%. This increase was primarily due to an increase in sales of our accounting software products, such as Sage ERP X3, cloud solutions Netsuite and Acumatica, and Accellos Warehouse Management. Service revenue increased by $785,717 to $5,100,372 in 2015 from $4,314,655 in 2014 for an overall increase of 18.2%. The overall increases are primarily due to the continued successful sales and marketing efforts and very competitive pricing, and the Companys strategy to increase its business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. Gross Profit Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased $695,228 (33%) to $2,800,272 as compared to $2,105,044 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase in overall gross profit for this period is attributed to the increase in revenues from existing business, including the revenues from the ESC acquisition. For the period ended March 31, 2015, the overall gross profit percentage was 43.2% as compared to 42.7 % for the period ended March 31, 2014. The gross profit attributed to software sales increased $462,665 to $745,233 for 2015 from $282,568 in 2014 which resulted in an increase in the gross profit percentage from 46% to 54%. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. The gross profit attributed to services increased $233,051 from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to the implementations of larger scale accounting systems. The gross profit percentage attributed to services decreases to 40% in 2015 from 42% in 2014. In addition, the Company will often enter into agreements with former resellers to take over their customers in exchange for being paid a commission for a period of time. The Company currently has 12 of these arrangements in place, which had the result of reducing the Companys reported gross profit percentage by less than 0.39% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and less than 0.86% for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $179,855 (24.6%) to $912,130 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $732,275 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 due to increased sales personnel and travel expenses as a result of an increase in sales activity. General and administrative expenses increased $105,704 (9.8%) to $1,187,814 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to $1,082,110 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily as a result of increases in payroll and related expenses associated with the addition of management personnel and incremental costs associated with the acquisition of ESC and ATR. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company recognized $30,405 of share-based compensation expense as a result of the granting of stock options to some of its non-executive employees as compared to $11,284 for the same three month period in 2014. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $34,223 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to $111,956 as compared to $77,733 for the period ended March 31, 2014. This increase is primarily attributed to the increase in amortization associated with the intangible assets acquired from the ESC acquisition in 2014. Income from Operations For the year three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company had income from operations of $577,967 as compared to income from operations of $201,642 for the same period in 2014. 21 Table of Contents Income Taxes For the year three months ended March 31, 2015, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were calculated based on the estimated tax rate. The Federal effective rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to Incentive Stock Options (ISO) expense which is generally never tax deductible for the Company. The provision for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $215,083. The effective tax rate consists primarily of the 34% federal statutory tax rate and a blended 4% state and local tax rate. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were offset by the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance no longer deemed necessary, and recorded a net tax benefit of $200,000, which represents a reduction in its valuation allowance on tax attributes that are expected to be utilized based on managements assessment and evaluation of historical and projected income. Net Income For year three months March 31, 2015, the Company had net income of $521,167 as compared to a net income of $120,741 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 for the reasons mentioned above. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams and established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. In October 2011, the Company obtained a line of credit from a bank. The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000. On August 1, 2013, the Company negotiated a new line of credit and term loan from the bank. The term of the line of credit is for two years and expires on July 31, 2015. The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000 at prime plus 1.75% interest (currently 5%). The line is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Meller. The credit facility requires the Company to pay a monitoring fee of $1,000 monthly. At March 31, 2015, the Company was in compliance with the required financial covenants, the fixed charge ratio and debt to net worth. As of March 31, 2015, the availability under this line was $750,000. Under the term loan, the Company borrowed $350,000 in July 2013 from a bank. The term loan expires on July 31, 2015. Monthly payments are at $15,776 including interest at 8%. The term loan is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Meller. At March 31, 2015 the outstanding balance was $61,076. On May 6, 2014, SWK acquired certain assets of ESC, Inc. pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $350,000 (the ESC Note) the note matures on April 1, 2019. Monthly payments are $6,135 including interest at 2% per year. At March 31, 2015 the outstanding balance was $294,068. On March 11, 2015, SWK acquired certain assets of 2000 SOFT, Inc. d/b/a Accounting Technology Resource (ATR) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for cash of $80,000 and a promissory note in the aggregate amount of $175,000 (the ATR Note) and matures on February 1, 2018. Monthly payments are $5,012 including interest at 2% per year. At March 31, 2015 the outstanding balance was $175,000. In March 2015, 363,490 shares of common stock were sold at a price of $4.24 per share and 181,745 warrants were sold at a price of $.01. The gross proceeds raised was $1,543,015 and underwriting expenses of $730,992, resulting in net proceeds to the Company of $812,023. 22 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company had a net increase in cash of $1,076,044 . The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by operating activities The Company generated $450 , 758 in cash from operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to generating $400 , 627 of cash for operating activities for the same period in 2014. This increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to an increase in deferred revenues and an increase in accounts receivable offset partially by an increase in accounts payable . Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 used cash of $104 , 869. This use of cash is attributed to higher purchases of property and equipment and the acquisition of ATR . Cash provided by financing activities Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 provided cash of $730 , 155 as compared to a use of cash of $56 , 610 for the same period in 2014. The increase was due primarily to the sale of common stock. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, and the availability of its credit line, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations as a result of inflation for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory obsolescence, intangible assets, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, there have been no new significant accounting policies or accounting pronouncements from those disclosed in our annual 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. We have identified below the accounting policies, revenue recognition and software costs, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but tested for impairment annually or whenever indicators of impairment exist. These indicators may include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business or other factors. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when products are shipped, or services are rendered, evidence of a contract exists, the price is fixed or reasonably determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. 23 Table of Contents Product Revenue Software product revenue is recognized when the product is shipped to the customer. The Company treats the software component and the professional services consulting component as two separate arrangements that represent separate units of accounting. The arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based upon that units proportion of the fair value. In a situation where both components are present, software sales revenue is recognized when collectability is reasonably assured and the product is delivered and has stand-alone value based upon vendor specific objective evidence. Service Revenue Service revenue is comprised of primarily professional service consulting revenue, maintenance revenue and other ancillary services provided. Professional service revenue is recognized as service time is incurred. With respect to maintenance services, upon the completion of one year from the date of sale, the Company offers customers an optional annual software maintenance and support agreement for subsequent periods not exceeding one year. Maintenance and support agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the respective terms of the agreements, which typically range from three months to one year and are included in services revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are classified as revenue, and the shipping and handling costs incurred are included in cost of sales. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable consist primarily of invoices for maintenance and professional services. Full payment for software ordered by customers is due in advance of ordering from the software supplier. Payments for maintenance and support plan renewals are due before the beginning of the maintenance period. Terms under our professional service agreements are generally 50% due in advance and the balance on completion of the services. The Company maintains an allowance for bad debt estimated by considering a number of factors, including the length of time the amounts are past due, the Companys previous loss history, the customers current ability to pay its obligations. Deferred Revenues Deferred revenues consist of maintenance service, customer support services, including telephone support and deposits for future consulting services which will be earned as services are performed over the contractual or stated period, which generally ranges from three to twelve months. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflects the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as net operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as current or non-current based on the classification of the related assets or liabilities for financial reporting, or according to the expected reversal dates of the specific temporary differences, if not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company has federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards which are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The calculation of the Companys tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will not be sustained upon a tax examination with a tax examination being presumed to occur. The Company recognizes interest and penalties as incurred in finance income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. There were no liabilities for uncertain tax positions at March 31, 2015 and 2014. 24 Table of Contents Definite Lived Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets The purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value using an independent valuation at the date of acquisition and are amortized over the useful lives of the asset using the straight-line amortization method. The Company assesses potential impairment of its intangible assets and other long-lived assets when there is evidence that recent events or changes in circumstances have made recovery of an assets carrying value unlikely. Factors the Company considers important, which may cause impairment include, among others, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends, and significant underperformance relative to historical or projected operating results. No impairment losses were identified or recorded in the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation expense related to share-based transactions, including employee stock options, is measured and recognized in the financial statements based on a determination of the fair value. The grant date fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton (Black-Scholes) pricing model. For employee stock options, the Company recognizes expense over the requisite service period on a straight-line basis (generally the vesting period of the equity grant). The Companys option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility, expected term, and forfeiture rate. Any changes in these highly subjective assumptions significantly impact stock-based compensation expense. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. This new revenue recognition model provides a five-step analysis in determining when and how revenue is recognized. The new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. This ASU is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is not permitted. Accordingly, the Company will adopt this ASU on January 1, 2017. Companies may use either a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach to adopt this ASU and management is currently evaluating which transition approach to use. The Company is currently assessing the impact that adopting this new accounting guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures. In April 2015 the FASB proposed delaying the effective date by one year for public companies No other recently issued accounting pronouncements had or are expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2015 or for fiscal 2014, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. 25 Table of Contents