Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations]. The Company presently has an agreement in place with YA Global under which YA has agreed not to convert any debentures into s hares of the Companys common stock until December 31, 2011as long as the other provisions of the agreement are met. THE INVESTORS HOLDING OUR CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES WILL PAY LESS THAN THE THEN-PREVAILING MARKET PRICE OF OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK. The Class A Common Stock to be issued under the YA Global Debentures will be issued at ninety percent (90%) of the lowest Closing Bid Price of the Common Stock during the thirty (30) days trading days immediately preceding the Conversion Date, as quoted by Bloomberg, LP. These discounted sales could cause the price of our Class A Common Stock to decline. Further, because the investor under the YA Global Debentures will acquire our Class A Common Stock at a discount, it will have an incentive to sell immediately in order to realize a gain on the difference. This incentive to sell immediately into the public market to realize a gain on the difference accelerates if the market price of our Class A Common Stock declines. [See Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation]. The Company presently has an agreement in place with YA Global under which YA has agreed not to convert any debentures into s hares of the Companys common stock until December 31, 2011 as long as the other provisions of the agreement are met. 11 Table of Contents THE INVESTORS HOLDING OUR CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES INTEND TO SELL THEIR SHARES OF CLASS A COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET, WHICH SALES MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. The investors holding our convertible debentures intend to sell the shares of Class A Common Stock in the public market. The number of shares of Class A Common Stock that may be sold is undeterminable at this time. Such sales may cause our stock price to decline. The Company presently has an agreement in place with YA Global under which YA has agreed not to convert any debentures into s hares of the Companys common stock until December 31, 2011. So long as the other provisions of the agreement are met. The Company presently has an agreement in place with YA Global under which YA has agreed not to convert any debentures into s hares of the Companys common stock until December 31, 2011 as long as the other provisions of the agreement are met. THE SALE OF OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THE YA GLOBAL DEBENTURES COULD ENCOURAGE SHORT SALES BY THIRD PARTIES, WHICH COULD CONTRIBUTE TO THE FURTHER DECLINE OF OUR STOCK PRICE. The significant downward pressure on the price of our Class A Common Stock caused by the sale of material amounts of Class A Common Stock under the YA Global Debentures could encourage short sales by third parties. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our Class A Common Stock. The Company presently has an agreement in place with YA Global under which YA has agreed not to convert any debentures into s hares of the Companys common stock until December 31, 2011 as long as the other provisions of the agreement are met. OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK IS THINLY TRADED AND WE CANNOT PREDICT THE EXTENT TO WHICH A MORE ACTIVE TRADING MARKET WILL DEVELOP. Our Class A Common Stock is thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies. Thinly traded Class A Common Stock can be more volatile than common stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for the Class A Common Stock will develop or be sustained after this offering. IF WE NEED ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO FUND OUR GROWING OPERATIONS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT CAPITAL AND MAY BE FORCED TO LIMIT THE SCOPE OF OUR OPERATIONS. If adequate additional financing is not available on reasonable terms, we may not be able to continue our marketing efforts and we would have to modify our business plans accordingly. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us. In connection with our growth strategies and plan of operation, we may experience increased capital needs and accordingly, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability; (ii) the release of competitive products and services by our competition; (iii) the level of our investment in research and development; and (iv) the amount of our capital expenditures, including acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. In addition, new equity or convertible debt securities issued by us to obtain financing could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. 12 Table of Contents THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK MAY BE AFFECTED BY A LIMITED TRADING VOLUME AND MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY. There has been a limited public market for our Class A common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our stock will continue. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our Class A common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. Our Class A common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could adversely affect the market price of our stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially. OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK IS DEEMED TO BE "PENNY STOCK," WHICH MAY MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO SELL THEIR SHARES DUE TO SUITABILITY REQUIREMENTS. Our Class A common stock is deemed to be "penny stock" as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our Class A common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our Class A common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Penny stocks are stock: With a price of less than $5.00 per share; That are not traded on a "recognized" national exchange; Whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or In issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. FUTURE SALES OF OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. The sale of a large number of our shares, or the perception that such a sale may occur, could lower our stock price. Such sales could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we consider appropriate. ISSUANCE OF OUR RESERVED SHARES OF CLASS A COMMON STOCK MAY SIGNIFICANTLY DILUTE THE EQUITY INTEREST OF EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. We have reserved for issuance shares of our Class A common stock upon exercise or conversion of stock options, warrants, or other convertible securities that are presently outstanding. Issuance of these shares will have the effect of diluting the equity interest of our existing stockholders and could have an adverse effect on the market price for our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents Item 2. Description of Property We do not own any real property for use in our operations or otherwise. Our main offices are at 5 Regent Street, Livingston, NJ 07039 where we have 6,986 square feet of office space at a monthly rent of $7,423. The Company entered into a two-year lease, with a one-year extension, for office space at 6834 Buckley Road, North Syracuse, New York, at a monthly rent of $2,100. We use our facilities to house our corporate headquarters and operations and believe our facilities are suitable for such purpose. We also believe that our insurance coverage adequately covers our interest in our leased space. We have a good relationship with our landlords. We believe that these facilities will be adequate for the foreseeable future. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are currently not involved in any litigation that we believe could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or by any court, public board, government agency, self-regulatory organization or body pending or, to the knowledge of the executive officers of our company or any of our subsidiaries, threatened against or affecting our company, our common stock, any of our subsidiaries or of our companies or our subsidiaries officers or directors in their capacities as such, in which an adverse decision could have a material adverse effect. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, no matters were submitted to a vote of security holders. 14 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters (a) Market Information Our Class A common stock, $0.00001 par value, is quoted on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol TYRIA. The following table shows the high and low closing prices for the periods indicated. High Low 2010 First Quarter $ 0.000130 $ 0.000130 Second Quarter $ 0.000190 $ 0.000130 Third Quarter $ 0.000690 $ 0.000130 Fourth Quarter $ 0.000380 $ 0.000130 2009 First Quarter $ 0.000190 $ 0.000130 Second Quarter $ 0.000310 $ 0.000130 Third Quarter $ 0.000190 $ 0.000130 Fourth Quarter $ 0.000190 $ 0.000130 (b) Holders of Common Equity. As of December 31, 2010, the number of record holders of our common shares was approximately 712. (c) Dividend Information. To date, the Company has never paid a cash dividend. We have no plans to pay any dividends in the near future. We intend to retain all earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, for use in our business operations. Sales of Unregistered Securities In the year ending December 31, 2010, the Company issued the following securities pursuant to various exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company issued 588,717,949 shares of Class A common stock for conversion of $60,900 of principal on convertible debentures with YA Global Investments The Company issued 150,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $15,000 in accrued expenses with a fair value of value $19,500. The difference in the market value and $15,000 of accrued expenses was charged to general and administrative expenses in the amount of $4,500. The Company issued 151,468,264 shares of Class A Common stock to Mr. Meller for repayment of $1,515 in deferred compensation with a fair value of $28,779. The difference in the fair value and the amount of deferred compensation repaid was charged to general and administrative expenses in the amount of $27,264. The Company issued 403,686,999 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $8,074 of legal fees with a fair value of $52,479. The difference in the fair value and the amount of legal fess repaid was charged to general and administrative expenses in the amount of $44,405. The Company issued 1,425,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for professional fees, and management and financial consulting fees with a fair value of $216,750. 15 Table of Contents In the year ending December 31, 2009, the Company issued the following securities pursuant to various exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company issued 100,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $8,500 in deferred compensation with a fair value of value $18,750. The difference in the market value and $8,500 of deferred compensation repaid was charged to general and administrative expenses in the amount of $10,250. The Company issued 100,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $8,500 on a note payable with a fair value of value $18,750. The difference in the market value and $8,500 of note repayment was charged to general and administrative expenses in the amount of $10,250. The Company issued 95,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $9,500 in accrued expenses with a fair value of value $11,875. The difference in the market value and $9,500 of accrued expenses was charged to general and administrative expenses in the amount of $2,375. The Company issued 1,300,221,773 shares of Class A Common stock with a total value of $515,671 for conversion of $179,200 of principal on outstanding debentures with YA Global Investments. The difference in the market value and the $179,200 repayment was charged to debt conversion discount in the amount of $336,471. We relied upon the exemption provided in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act and/or Rule 506 thereunder, which cover "transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering," to issue securities discussed above without registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company made a determination in each case that the person to whom the securities were issued did not need the protections that registration would afford. The certificates representing the securities issued displayed a restrictive legend to prevent transfer except in compliance with applicable laws, and our transfer agent was instructed not to permit transfers unless directed to do so by our Company, after approval by our legal counsel. The Company believes that the investors to whom securities were issued had such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment. The Company also believes that the investors had access to the same type of information as would be contained in a registration statement. Description of Securities Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, as amended, we are authorized to issue up to: 10,000,000,000 shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.00001 per share; 50,000,000 shares of Class B common stock, par value $.00001 per share; 20,000,000 shares of Class C common stock, par value $0.00001; and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value of $1.00 per share. Below is a description of Trey Resources outstanding securities, including Class A common stock, Class B common stock, options, warrants and debt. Class A Common Stock Each holder of our Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote for each share held of record. Holders of our Class A Common Stock have no preemptive, subscription, conversion, or redemption rights. There are 10,000,000,000 shares authorized and 8,053,568,518 issued and outstanding at March 31, 2011. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to receive our net assets pro rata. Each holder of Class A Common Stock is entitled to receive ratably any dividends declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends. We have not paid any dividends on our Common Stock and do not contemplate doing so in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any earnings generated from operations will be used to finance our growth. Class B Common Stock Each share of Class B Common Stock has voting rights equal to 100 shares of Class A Common Stock. Holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to receive dividends in the same proportion as the Class B Common Stock conversion and voting rights have to Class A Common Stock. There are 50,000,000 shares authorized and there were no shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010. A holder of Class B Common Stock has the right to convert each share of Class B Common Stock into the number of shares of Class A Common Stock determined by dividing the number of Class B Common Stock being converted by a 50% discount of the lowest price that Trey had ever issued its Class A Common Stock. Upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up, holders of Class B Common Stock will be entitled to receive distributions. 16 Table of Contents Class C Common Stock Each holder of our Class C Common Stock is entitled to 1 vote for each 1,000 shares held of record. Holders of our Class C Common Stock have no preemptive, subscription, conversion, or redemption rights. Shares of Class C Common Stock are not convertible into Class A Common Stock. There are 20,000,000 shares authorized and there were no shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the holders of Class C Common Stock are not entitled to receive our net assets pro rata. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock and do not contemplate doing so in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any earnings generated from operations will be used to finance our growth. Preferred Stock Trey filed an amendment to its certificate of incorporation, authorizing the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share. As of December 31, 2010, Trey has not issued any shares of Preferred Stock. Our board of directors is authorized (by resolution and by filing an amendment to our certificate of incorporation and subject to limitations prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) to issue, from to time, shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and other rights of the shares of each such series and to fix the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereon, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following: the number of shares constituting that series and the distinctive designation of that series; the dividend rate on the shares of that series, whether dividends are cumulative, and, if so, from which date or dates, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of dividends on shares of that series; whether that series has voting rights, in addition to voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of those voting rights; whether that series has conversion privileges, and, if so, the terms and conditions of conversion, including provisions for adjusting the conversion rate in such events as our board of directors determines; whether or not the shares of that series are redeemable, and, if so, the terms and conditions of redemption, including the dates upon or after which they are redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates; whether that series has a sinking fund for the redemption or purchase of shares of that series, and, if so, the terms and amount of that sinking fund; the rights of the shares of that series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Trey, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of shares of that series; and any other relative powers, preferences and rights of that series, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions on that series. If we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our affairs, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, the holders of Preferred Stock of each series will be entitled to receive only that amount or those amounts as are fixed by the certificate of designations or by resolution of the board of directors providing for the issuance of that series. 17 Table of Contents Options and Stock Awards During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, the Company adopted the Trey Resources, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the Stock Incentive Plan) to: (i) provide long-term incentives and rewards to employees, directors, independent contractors or agents the Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) assist the Company in attracting and retaining employees, directors, independent contractors or agents with experience and/or ability on a basis competitive with industry practices; and (iii) associate the interests of such employees, directors, independent contractors or agents with those of the Company's stockholders. The Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to 2.4 million shares of Class A common stock under the Stock Incentive Plan. In 2005, the Board of Directors amended this plan to increase the authorized number of shares to 20 million Class A Common Stock. In 2007, the Board of Directors amended this plan to increase the authorized number of shares to 87.9 million Class A Common Stock. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the Company adopted the Trey Resources, Inc. 2007 Consultant Stock Incentive Plan (the Consultant Plan) to: (i) provide long-term incentives, payment in stock in lieu of cash and rewards to consultants, advisors, attorneys, independent contractors or agents ("Eligible Participants") of Trey Resources, Inc. ("the Company") and its subsidiaries; (ii) assist the Company in attracting and retaining independent contractors or agents with experience and/or ability on a basis competitive with industry practices; and (iii) associate the interests of such independent contractors or agents with those of the Company's stockholders. Total shares issuable under this plan may not exceed twenty (20) percent of the issued and outstanding shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock. No securities were issued pursuant to the 2004 Plan and 2007 Plans for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and as amended, the Company adopted the Trey Resources, Inc. 2004 Directors and Officers Stock Incentive Plan (the "Directors and Officers Plan") is to (i) provide long-term incentives and rewards to officers and directors the Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) assist the Company in attracting and retaining officers and directors with experience and/or ability on a basis competitive with industry practices; and (iii) associate the interests of such officers and directors with those of the Company's stockholders. The Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to 2.4 million shares of Class A common stock under the Directors and Officers Plan. In 2005, the Board of Directors amended this plan to increase the authorized number of shares to 20 million Class A Common Stock. No securities were issued pursuant to the 2004 D&O Plan for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The Company does not have any significant trends in its financial condition or results of operations to be disclosed. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations includes forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. We use words such as expect, anticipate, believe, and intend and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. You should be aware that actual results may differ materially from our expressed expectations because of risks and uncertainties inherent in future events and you should not rely unduly on these forward looking statements. We will not necessarily update the information in this discussion if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Financial Statements included in this filing. Management is uncertain that it can generate sufficient cash to sustain its operations in the next twelve months, or beyond. We can give no assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to be profitable, obtain adequate capital funding or continue as a going concern. December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 All revenues reported by Trey are derived from the sales and service of Sage Software, MAPADOC and various network services products to various end users, manufacturers, wholesalers and distribution industry clients located throughout the United States, along with programming and network services provided by the Companys operating subsidiary, SWK Technologies (SWKT). 18 Table of Contents Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $72,055 (1%) to $7,486,703 as compared to $7,414,648 for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase is primarily due to higher sales associated with networking and software sales mostly offset by lower consulting revenues. Product sales increased $443,769 (29.2%) to $1,964,920 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $1,521,151 in the prior year primarily as a result of higher MAS 500 software sales. Service revenues declined $371,714 (6.3%) to $5,521,783 for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $5,893,497 in the prior year as a result of the weak economy. Management continues to focus on marketing and sales across all its product lines. However, due to the current economic downturn, there can be no assurance that sales will increase. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $170,979 (5.6%) to $2,872,563 as compared to $3,043,542 for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2010 the gross profit percentage was 38.4% as compared to 41% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The mix of products being sold by the company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. Sales of the certain software products carry a lower gross margin percentage as the relative discount percentage from the supplier decreases while consulting revenues generate a higher gross profit. The lower consulting revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted in the lower gross profit. Total operating expenses increased $437,847 (13.3%) to $3,809,680 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $3,295,663 for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase is mainly attributed to an increase in salaries for sales personnel and professional fees offset partially by lower amortization expense, which is now fully amortized. Total other income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $368,612 as compared to other expense of $1,250,141 for the year ended December 31, 2009. This change is primarily attributed to the gain on valuation of derivative of $483,081 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared toa loss on valuation of derivative of $728,150 for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $568,505 as compared to net loss of $1,502,262 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The change in net loss of was the result of the factors discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. The Company has suffered recurring losses and current liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $5.1 million, as of December 31, 2010, and, as such, will require financing for working capital to meet its operating obligations. These matters raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The recoverability of a major portion of the recorded asset amounts shown in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet is dependent upon continued operations of the Company, which in turn, is dependent upon the Company's ability to raise capital and/or generate positive cash flows from operations. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to achieve profitability through acquisitions of companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams, established customer bases, and generate positive cash flow. We anticipate that we will require financing on an ongoing basis for the foreseeable future. 19 Table of Contents On December 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Cornell Capital Partners, LP (n/k/a/ YA Global Investments YA Global). Pursuant to such purchase agreement, YA Global purchased $2,359,047 of secured convertible debentures which shall be convertible into shares of the Company's Class A common stock. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, two Secured Convertible Debentures were issued on December 30, 2005 for an aggregate of $1,759,047. A portion of this financing was used to convert promissory notes and accrued interest equal to $1,159,047 into new secured convertible debentures and the balance was new financing in the form of secured convertible debentures equal to $600,000 with interest payable at the rate of 7.5% per annum to be issued and sold on the closing of this Securities Purchase Agreement and a second secured convertible debenture equal to $600,000 with interest payable at the rate of 7.5% per annum to be issued and sold two business days prior to the filing of the registration statement that will register the common stock shares issuable upon conversion of the secured convertible debentures. The debentures were due on December 30, 2007 and May 2, 2008, respectively, and carry an interest rate of 7.5% per annum. The principal and accrued interest on the debentures are convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock at a price per share equal to 90% of the lowest closing bid price of our Class A Common Stock for the thirty trading days immediately preceding conversion. The aggregate balance due of the YA Global debentures at December 31, 2010 is $1,319,000 for principal and $653,576 for interest. On October 30, 2009, YA Global Investments, L.P. agreed to extend the maturity date of the Convertible Debentures to December 30, 2010. On November 9, 2010, the convertible debentures issued to YA Global Investments, L.P. were renegotiated with the maturity date being extended to December 31, 2011. This amendment required an initial payment of $175,000 due on January 28, 2011 with additional monthly payments of $10,000 to be made for the following eleven months ending December 1, 2011. The remaining principal and all accrued interest is due on December 31, 2011. This agreement also modified and fixed the conversion price at $.0001, but is also subject to price protection features. The Debentures are also not convertible during 2011, provided that the payments required by the amended agreement have been made in a timely fashion. The Company has made all payments in accordance with the agreement as of this filing. During the year ended December 31, 2010, Trey had a net decrease in cash of $196,138. Treys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash used in operating activities . For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company used $38,177 in cash for operating activities as compared to $67,633 for the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease is primarily attributed to the decrease in accounts receivable, increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities mostly offset by the higher operating loss. Cash used in investing activities. For the year ended December 31, 2010 the Company used $31,725 in investing activities as compared to $55,586 for the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease in cash used is attributed to decreased purchases of property, plant and equipment. Cash provided by financing activities . Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 used a total of $126,236 in cash as compared to providing $3,659 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2009. This change is primarily attributed to the proceeds of $150,000 from the sale of shares of SWK in 2009. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory obsolescence, intangible assets, payroll tax obligations, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified below the accounting policies, revenue recognition and software costs, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. 20 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an agreement exists, delivery has occurred, the amount is fixed or determinable, and cash is received. The Company recognizes revenues from consulting and support services as the services are performed. The assessment of collectability is critical in determining whether revenue should be recognized. As part of the revenue recognition process, we determine whether trade receivables are reasonably assured of collection based on various factors. Revenue and related costs are deferred if we are uncertain as to whether the receivable can be collected. Revenue is deferred but costs are recognized when we determine that the collection of the receivable is unlikely. Hardware and software revenues are recognized when the product is shipped to the customer. The Company separates the software component and the professional services component into two distinct parts for purposes of determining revenue recognition. In that situation where both components are present, software sales revenue is recognized when the cash is received and the product is delivered, and professional service revenue is recognized as the service time is incurred. Commissions are recognized when payments are received, since the Company has no obligation to perform any future services. With respect to the sale of software license fees in accordance with GAAP, the Company generally recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists generally evidenced by a signed, written purchase order from the customer, (2) delivery of the software product on Compact Disk (CD) or other means to the customer has occurred, (3) the perpetual license fee is fixed or determinable and (4) collectability, which is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis, is probable. With respect to customer support services, upon the completion of one year from the date of sale, considered to be the warranty period, the Company offers customers an optional annual software maintenance and support agreement for subsequent one-year periods. Sales of purchased maintenance and support agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the respective terms of the agreements. Derivative Liabilities The Company accounts for its embedded conversion features in its convertible debentures in accordance FASB ASC 815-10, which requires a periodic valuation of their fair value and a corresponding recognition of liabilities associated with such derivatives, and FASB ASC 815-40 Section 05, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Companys Own Stock. The recognition of derivative liabilities related to the issuance of convertible debt is applied first to the proceeds of such issuance as a debt discount, at the date of issuance, and the excess of derivative liabilities over the proceeds is recognized as Loss on Valuation of Derivative in other expense in the accompanying financial statements. Any subsequent increase or decrease in the fair value of the derivative liabilities is recognized as Other expense or Other income, respectively. The financial statements for the period include the recognition of the derivative liability on the underlying securities issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Debentures with YA Global Investments. Accounts receivable The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based on customer payment and current credit worthiness, as determined by review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors credits and payments from its customers and maintains provision for estimated credit losses based on its historical experience and any specific customer issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectation and the provision established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to receive positive results. 21 Table of Contents Impact of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). This Update provides amendments to the criteria in Subtopic 605-24 for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. It establishes a hierarchy of selling prices to determine the selling price of each specific deliverable which includes vendor-specific objective evidence (if available), third-party evidence (if vendor-specific evidence is not available), or estimated selling price if neither of the first two are available. This Update also eliminates the residual method for allocating revenue between the elements of an arrangement and requires that arrangement consideration be allocated at the inception of the arrangement. Finally, this Update expands the disclosure requirements regarding a vendors multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This Update is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not anticipate any material impact from this Update. In April, 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-17, Revenue Recognition Milestone Method. ASU 2010-17 amends ASC 605 Revenue Recognition to provide guidance on the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone meets all criteria to be considered substantive. The amendments in this Update are effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2010-17 to have an effect on the Companys financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2010, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.