Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Our core strength is rooted in our ability to discover and identify the driving forces of change that are affecting or will affect businesses in a wide range of industries. We invest valuable time and resources to fully understand how technology is transforming the business management landscape and what current or emerging innovations are deserving of a clients attention. By leveraging this knowledge and foresight, our growing list of clients are empowered with the means to more effectively manage their businesses; to capitalize on real-time insight drawn from their data resources; and to materially profit from enhanced operational functionality, process flexibility and expedited process execution. A key tactical strategy for our Company is developing smart, proprietary business management applications that effectively and efficiently integrate with existing business management systems; and in publishing proprietary solutions for niche markets that address unique manufacturing and distribution challenges and needs. In this regard, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SWK Technologies, Inc. (SWK), we publish proprietary EDI software, branded as MAPADOC. MAPADOC is a fully integrated, easy-to use, feature-rich EDI solution for users of Sage Software, Inc.s (Sage) market leading Sage 100/500/ERP X3 software products. Providing seamless integration and dramatically decreasing data-entry time and associated costs, it is marketed and distributed worldwide by the Companys direct sales force, as well as through its platform partner, SPS Commerce, Inc. and a growing national network of independent software partners and resellers, to customers largely supplying big-box retailers, including Walmart, Sears, Target and Costco. In addition, we have developed a proprietary series of cloud-based, SaaS business management solutions created specifically for the U.S. craft brewery and distribution industry. Currently, implementations of our proprietary SaaS solutions, marketed and branded as BeerRun, BrewPub, Brew X ERP (powered by Sage ERP X3) and the Distributor Relationship Management System, have been sold to 102 craft breweries throughout the United Stated and one internationally. These innovative solutions provide brew masters with a single, turnkey database batch/process solution capable of managing their manufacturing operations from forecasting and planning to recipe management to inventory control and traceability, among other critical business functions, including TTB reporting. 13 Table of Contents We also provide high margin, managed IT services to our customers. As Microsoft Certified Systems Engineers and Microsoft Certified Professionals, our staff offers a host of mission critical services, including remote network monitoring, server implementation, support and assistance, operation and maintenance of large central systems, technical design of network infrastructure, technical troubleshooting for large scale problems, network and server security, and back-up, archiving and storage of data from servers. We compete with numerous large and small companies in this market sector, both nationally and locally. Distinguished as one of the largest Sage ERP X3 practices in North America, we resell enterprise resource planning software published by Sage, which addresses the financial accounting requirements of small- and medium-size businesses focused on manufacturing and distribution. We also offer services related to these sales, including installation, support and training. These product sales are primarily packaged software programs installed on a user workstation, on a local area network server, or in a hosted environment. The programs perform and support a wide variety of functions related to accounting, including financial reporting, accounts payable, accounts receivable and inventory management. We employ class instructors and host formal, topic-specific, training classes, both on-site at our clients facilities and at our corporate offices. Our instructors must pass annual subject matter examinations required by Sage to retain their product-based teaching certifications. We also provide end-user technical support services through our support/help desk, which is available during normal business hours, Monday through Friday. Our team of qualified product and technology consultants assist customers that contact us with questions about product features, functions, usability issues and configurations. The support/help desk offers services in a variety of ways, including prepaid services, time and materials billed as utilized and annual support contracts. Our customers can communicate with our support/help desk through email, telephone and fax channels. Led by specialized project managers, we provide professional services ranging from software customization to data migration to small- and medium-size business consulting. We also are resellers of the Accellos Warehouse Management System (WMS) software published by High Jump, Inc. (High Jump), which develops warehouse management software for middle market distributors. The primary purpose of a WMS is to control the movement and storage of materials within an operation and process the associated transactions. Directed picking, directed replenishment, and directed put-away are the key to WMS. The detailed setup and processing within a WMS can vary significantly from one software vendor to another. However, the basic WMS will use a combination of item, location, quantity, unit of measure and order information to determine where to stock, where to pick, and in what sequence to perform these operations. The Accellos WMS software improves accuracy and efficiency, streamlines materials handling, meets retail compliance requirements, and refines inventory control. Accellos also works as part of a complete operational solution by integrating seamlessly with RF hardware, accounting software, shipping systems and warehouse automation equipment. We market the Accellos solution to our existing and new medium-sized business clients. Investing in the acquisition of other companies and proprietary business management solutions has been an important growth strategy for our Company, allowing us to rapidly offer new products and services, expand into new geographic markets and create new and exciting profit centers. To date, we have completed a series of strategic ventures that have served to fundamentally strengthen our Companys operating platform and materially expand our footprint to nearly every U.S. state. More specifically, we have outright acquired, acquired select assets of or entered into revenue sharing agreements with Business Tech Solutions Group, Inc.; Wolen Katz Associates; AMP-BEST Consulting, Inc.; IncorTech; Micro-Point, Inc.; HighTower, Inc.; Point Solutions, LLC; SGEN, LLC and ESC, Inc. Additionally, it is our intention to continue to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. On May 6, 2014 (the Closing Date) SWK Technologies, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of SilverSun Technologies, Inc, entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with ESC, Inc. d/b/a ESC Software, an Arizona corporation, and Alan H. Hardy and Michael Dobberpuhl in their individual capacity as Shareholders. On the Closing Date, pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Seller, transferred, conveyed and delivered all of the Acquired Assets of ESC (as defined in the Purchase Agreement) to the Company. In consideration for the Acquired Assets, the Company issued in favor of Seller a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $350,000 (the Note). The Note is due sixty (60) months from the Closing Date (the Maturity Date) and bears interest at a rate of two percent (2%) per annum. Any overdue principal or interest on the Note shall bear interest, payable on demand, for each day until paid at a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (i) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law or (ii) ten percent (10%). 14 Table of Contents Additionally, in connection with the Purchase Agreement, the Company entered into an Employment Agreement with Alan H. Hardy pursuant to which Mr. Hardy will serve as SWKs Senior Vice President of Business Development. Mr. Hardys duties will vary, but will focus primarily on business development and software application sales. The term of the Employment Agreement is three years (the Term). SWK shall pay Mr. Hardy a base salary of One Hundred Sixty Two Thousand ($162,000) per annum. Additionally, Mr. Hardy shall receive 600,000 options to purchase the Companys common stock at a strike price of $0.15 per share (the Options). During the first nine months of 2014 we continued our sales growth as we continue to increase our market penetration and provide the groundwork for which we believe will provide a basis for the future. Some of the key highlights for the first nine months of 2014 are as follows: 1) Revenues increased 32% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to $16.3 million as compared to $12.3 million for the same period in the prior year, and reaching $6 million in revenues in a quarter for the first time. 2) Income from operations increased to $801,877 as compared to $146,895 for the prior year with income from operations of $467,506 for the quarter ended September 30, 2014. 3) On May 6, 2014 acquired ESC Software, a leading Arizona-based reseller of Sage Software and Acumatica applications. 4) Significant growth in our Managed Services business. 5) Sales of the Companys proprietary EDI solution, MAPADOC have maintained their rapid rate of growth. 6) Continue to book major orders for Sage ERP X3. 7) Sales of our cloud-based business management solutions created specifically for the U.S. craft brewery and distribution industry has continued to increase since its introduction to market in early 2012; and the number of new sales prospects continues to climb. Revenues Revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 increased $1,711,514 (39.1%) and $3,975,944 (32.4%), respectively, to $6,086,465 and $16,266,032 as compared to $4,374,951 and $12,290,088 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively. These revenues were all generated by the Companys wholly-owned operating subsidiary, SWK. The increase in revenues from the existing business is related to an increase in new software sales, both proprietary and those for which we serve as a value-added reseller, new contracts for managed services, and higher consulting revenues. Software and consulting revenues have increased primarily due to Sage ERP X3 implementations. Maintenance revenues also continue to increase as software sales increase. The overall increases are primarily due to the continued marketing efforts, which has resulted in increased market penetration, increased depth and breadth of expertise and services, which has resulted in an increased number of Company clients, and the Companys strategy to increase its business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. Gross Profit Gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 increased $927,560 (56.9%) and $2,038,710 (41.8%), respectively, to $2,558,547 and $6,911,428 as compared to $1,630,987 and $4,872,718 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively. The increase in gross profit for this period is attributed primarily to the increase in revenues from existing business. For the three months ended September 30, 2014, the gross profit percentage was 42.0%, as compared to 37.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2013. For the nine months ended September 30, 2014, the gross profit percentage was 42.5%, as compared to 39.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013.The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. The change in sales mix for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 resulted in gross profit being slightly higher as a percent of sales as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, primarily as a result of a higher consulting and managed service revenues, which sales have a higher gross profit. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses decreased $72,920 (7.9%) for the three months ended September 30, 2014 to $853,818 as compared to $926,738 for the three months ended September 30, 2013. Selling and marketing expenses increased $131,017 (5.6%) for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to $2,476,720 as compared to $2,345,703 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. However, selling and marketing expenses declined as a percentage of sales from 19.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 to 15.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. We continue to monitor and rationalize expenses to increase our profit margins, and have been successful in increasing sales while reducing operating expenses as a percentage of total revenues. We have also increased our attendance at trade shows to further promote our products, services and technology. 15 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses increased $417,507 (62.5%) and $1,124,312 (52.9%), respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 to $1,086,033 and $3,251,615 as compared to $668,526 and $2,127,303 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, respectively, primarily as a result of the addition of new employees and increases in compensation and payroll related expenses. Other Income (Expense) Total other expense was $21,494 and $45,717 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to $20,135 and $51,399 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013. The decrease for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily due to lower interest on the term loan, which continues to be paid down. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 was $197,847 and $327,364. These amounts represent the statutory federal and state rate on the Companys income before taxes. The effective tax rates of 44.3% and 43.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, respectively, were higher than the respective statutory rates due to the non-cash expense associated with incentive stock option share-based compensation for these periods. Net Income As a result of the above, the Company recorded net income of $248,165 and $428,796, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, as compared to a net loss of $82,219 for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and net income of $95,496 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to continue to sustain its profitability through acquisitions of companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams, established customer bases, and positive cash flow. On August 1, 2013, the Company negotiated a new line of credit and term loan from the bank. The term of the line is for two years, expiring on July 31, 2015. The agreement includes a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000 at prime plus 1.75% interest (currently 5%). The line is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Meller. The credit facility requires the Company to pay a monitoring fee of $1,000 monthly. At September 30, 2014, the Company was in compliance with its required financial covenants, the fixed charge ratio and debt to net worth. As of September 30, 2014, the availability under this line was $750,000. Under the term loan, the Company borrowed $350,000 in July 2013 from a bank. The term of the loan is for two years and expires on July 31, 2015. Monthly payments are at $15,776 including interest at 8%. The term loan is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Meller. The outstanding balances at September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013 were $151,259 and $279,517, respectively. On May 6, 2014 (the Closing Date) SWK Technologies, Inc.(SWK) , a wholly owned subsidiary of SilverSun Technologies, Inc, entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with ESC, Inc. d/b/a ESC Software, an Arizona corporation, and Alan H. Hardy and Michael Dobberpuhl in their individual capacity as Shareholders. SWK acquired certain assets of ESC (as defined in the Purchase Agreement). In consideration for the acquired assets, the Company issued in favor of Seller a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $350,000 (the Note). The Note is due sixty (60) months from the Closing Date (the Maturity Date) and bears interest at a rate of two percent (2%) per annum. Any overdue principal or interest on the Note shall bear interest, payable on demand, for each day until paid at a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (i) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law or (ii) ten percent (10%). The outstanding balance at September 30, 2014 was $327,739. 16 Table of Contents During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, the Company had a net increase in cash of $686,881. The Company's principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by operating activities The Company generated $910,824 in cash from operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, as compared to $862,003 of cash from operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. This increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to the improvement in operating income, increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses for the period offset mostly by increase in accounts receivable and unbilled services for the period. Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 used $10,344 as compared to using $31,375 of cash for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, which is attributed to lower purchases of property and equipment. Cash (used in) provided by financing activities Financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 used cash of $213,599, as compared to generating $102,897 of cash for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. This change is mostly attributed to the proceeds from a term loan in the amount of $350,000 during the nine months ended September 30, 2013. The Company had no borrowing during the nine months ended September 30, 2014, but continued to pay off the outstanding debt. The Company anticipates that there will be no significant impact on its liquidity as a result of its recent acquisition of ESC, Inc. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, recent acquisitions, and the availability of its credit line, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations as a result of inflation for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K to the SEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities nor have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. 17 Table of Contents