Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiary (the Company) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a business application, technology and consulting company providing strategies and solutions to meet our clients information, technology and business management needs. Our services and technologies enable customers to manage, protect and monetize their enterprise assets whether on-premise or in the Cloud. As a value added reseller of business application software, we offer solutions for accounting and business management, financial reporting, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Warehouse Management Systems (WMS), Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and Business Intelligence (BI). Additionally, we have our own development staff building software solutions for Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), time and billing, and various ERP enhancements. Our value-added services focus on consulting and professional services, specialized programming, training, and technical support. We have a dedicated network services practice that provides managed services, hosting, business continuity, cloud, email and web services. Our customers are nationwide, with concentrations in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area, Chicago, Dallas, Arizona, Southern California, North Carolina and Washington. Our core business is divided into the following practice areas: ERP (Enterprise Resource Management) and Accounting Software We are a value-added reseller for a number of industry-leading ERP applications. We are a Sage Software Authorized Business Partner and Sage Certified Gold Development Partner. We believe we are among the largest Sage ERP X3 partners in North America, with a sales and implementation presence complemented by a scalable software development practice for customizations and enhancements. Due to the growing demand for true cloud-based ERP solutions, we have added two (2) industry leading applications to our ERP portfolio: (1) NetSuite ERP, among the worlds leading cloud ERP solutions; and (2) Acumatica, a browser-based ERP solution that can be offered on premise, in the public cloud, or in a private cloud. We develop and resell a variety of add-on solutions to all our ERP and accounting packages that help customize the installation to our customers needs and streamline their operations. 20 Table of Contents Value-Added Services for ERP We go beyond simply reselling software packages; we have a consulting and professional services organization that manages the process as we move from the sales stage into implementation, go live, and production. We work inside our customers organizations to ensure all software and Information Technology (IT) solutions are enhancing their business needs. A significant portion of our services revenue comes from continuing to work with existing customers as their business needs change, upgrading from one version of software to another, or providing additional software solutions to help them grow their revenue. We have a dedicated help desk team that fields hundreds of calls every week. Our custom programming department builds specialized software packages as well as off the shelf enhancements and time and billing software. EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) Software and Services EDI is the computer to computer exchange of standard business documents, such as purchase orders and invoices, in electronic format. A standard file format is established for each kind of document in order to facilitate the exchange of data across a variety of platforms and programs. We have a proprietary software solution, MAPADOC, which is fully integrated with the Sage ERPs. MAPADOC allows businesses to dramatically cut data entry time by eliminating duplicate entries and reduces costly errors with trading partners. MAPADOC is the only EDI solution that is built within the framework of the Sage ERPs, allowing customers to stay within one application to get their job done. Network and Managed Services We provide comprehensive network and managed services designed to eliminate the IT concerns of our customers. Businesses can focus on their core strengths rather than technology issues. We adapt our solutions for virtually any type of business, from large national and international product and service providers, to small businesses with local customers. Our business continuity services provide automatic on and off site backups, complete encryption, and automatic failure testing. We also provide email and web security, IT consulting, managed network, and emergency IT services. Our focus in the network and managed services practice is to focus on industry verticals in order to demonstrate our ability to better understand our customers needs. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 the Company continued to expand its customer base and growth trend which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. 1) Revenues increased 20.1% from the same three month period in the prior year. 2) Income from operations decreased to $144,371 as compared to $557,967 for the same three month period in the prior year. 3) Net income was $74,277 as compared to $521,167 for the same three month period in the prior year. Revenues Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased $1,301,187 (20.1%) to $7,784,301 as compared to $6,483,114 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Software sales decreased by $522,300 to $860,442 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $1,382,742 for the same period in 2015 for an overall decrease of 37.8%. This decrease was primarily due to sales orders that were expected to close in the current quarter being delayed to future quarters. Service revenue increased by $1,823,487 to $6,923,859 for the three months ended March 21, 2016 from $5,100,372 for the same period in 2015 for an overall increase of 35.8%. The overall increases are primarily due to increased business activity associated with the acquisitions the Company completed in 2015, and the Companys continued successful sales and marketing efforts. Gross Profit Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased $130,757 (4.7%) to $2,931,029 as compared to $2,800,272 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. For the period ended March 31, 2016, the overall gross profit percentage was 37.7% as compared to 43.2% for the period ended March 31, 2015. The gross profit attributed to software sales decreased $329,685 to $415,548 for the three months ending March 31, 2016 from $745,233 in the three months ending March 31, 2015. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. The gross profit attributed to services increased $460,442 for the three months ending March 31, 2016 from the three months ending March 31, 2015 primarily due to the implementations of larger scale accounting systems. The gross profit percentage attributed to services decreased to 36.3% in 2016 from 40.3% in 2015. 21 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $172,749 (18.9%) to $1,084,879 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $912,130 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to increased sales personnel and travel expenses as a result of an increase in sales activity generated by the 2015 acquisitions. General and administrative expenses increased $331,119 (27.9%) to $1,518,933 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to $1,187,814 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily as a result of increases in payroll and related expenses associated with the addition of management personnel and incremental costs associated with the acquisition of ATR, PTI, Macabe and Oates. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company recognized $11,952 of share-based compensation expense as a result of the granting of stock options to some of its non-executive employees as compared to $30,405 for the same three month period in 2015. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $58,938 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $170,894 as compared to $111,956 for the period ended March 31, 2015. This increase is primarily attributed to the increase in amortization associated with the intangible assets acquired from the ATR, PTI, Macabe, and Oates acquisitions in 2015. Income from Operations For the year three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company had income from operations of $144,371 as compared to income from operations of $557,967 for the same period in 2015. Income Taxes For the year three months ended March 31, 2016, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were calculated based on the estimated tax rate. The Federal effective rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to Incentive Stock Options (ISO) expense which is generally never tax deductible for the Company. The provision for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $60,848. The effective tax rate consists primarily of the 40% federal statutory tax rate and a blended 5% state and local tax rate. Net Income For year three months March 31, 2016, the Company had net income of $74,277 as compared to a net income of $521,167 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 for the reasons mentioned above. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting and managed services market with solid revenue streams and established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. In October 2011, the Company obtained a line of credit from a bank. This line included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000. On August 1, 2013, the Company negotiated a new line of credit (the Credit Line) and a two year term loan from the bank (the Term Loan). The term of the Credit Line was for two years and expired on July 31, 2015 and was automatically renewed . The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000 at prime plus 1.75% interest (currently 5.25%). The Credit Line is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Meller. The Credit Line requires the Company to pay a monitoring fee of $1,000 monthly. At March 31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with the required financial covenants, the fixed charge ratio and debt to net worth. As of March 31, 2016, the availability under this Credit Line was $750,000. 22 Table of Contents On May 6, 2014, SWK acquired certain assets of ESC, Inc. pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $350,000 (the ESC Note). The note matures on April 1, 2019. Monthly payments are $6,135 including interest at 2% per year. At March 31, 2016 the outstanding balance was $225,708. On March 11, 2015, SWK acquired certain assets of 2000 SOFT, Inc. d/b/a Accounting Technology Resource (ATR) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for cash of $80,000 and a promissory note in the aggregate amount of $175,000 (the ATR Note). The note matures on February 1, 2018. Monthly payments are $5,012 including interest at 2% per year. At March 31, 2016 the outstanding balance was $117,828. As additional consideration the Company will pay 10% of the net margin on maintenance renewals for former ATR customers for the first twelve months and 5% of the net margin on maintenance renewals for the following twelve months. Certain payments were made resulting in a remaining balance of $6,680 as of March 31, 2016. In March 2015, 363,490 shares of common stock were sold at a price of $4.24 per share and 181,745 warrants were sold at a price of $.01. The gross proceeds raised was $1,543,015 and underwriting expenses of $730,992, resulting in net proceeds to the Company of $812,023. On July 6, 2015, SWK acquired certain assets of ProductiveTech Inc. (PTI) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the PTI Purchase Agreement) for cash of $500,000 and a promissory note for $600,000 (the PTI Note). The PTI Note is due in 60 months from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two and one half (2.5%) percent. The monthly payments including interest are $10,645. At March 31, 2016 the outstanding balance was $524,104. On October 1, 2015 SWK entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with The Macabe Associates, Inc., (Macabe), a Washington corporation and Mary Abdian and John Nicholson in their individual capacity as Shareholders (the Macabe Purchase Agreement). SWK acquired certain assets and liabilities of Macabe (as defined in the Macabe Purchase Agreement). In consideration for the acquired assets, the Company paid $21,423 in cash. As additional consideration, the Company will pay $5,500 cash twelve months from closing and $5,500 cash twenty four months from closing on the net-to-SWK revenues for Software and Maintenance sales if certain estimates are met for a total of $11,000 and was recorded as part of the contingent consideration included in the purchase price. Additionally, the Company will pay 35% of the net margin on software maintenance renewals for former Macabe customers for the first twelve months, and then 30%, 25% and 20% of the net margin on software maintenance renewals for the following three years. The Company will also pay 50% the first year, and 40%, 30% and 20% the three years after on the net margin on EASY Solution Maintenance, new software & license to existing Macabe customers and EASY Solutions software and maintenance sales to new customers. On any former Macabe customers migrating to Netsuite, X3 or Acumatica, the Company will pay 50% of the net margin of the sale after applicable costs and commissions for the three years period after the acquisition. The Company estimated this contingent consideration to be approximately $417,971 at acquisition and which is included in the purchase price. Certain payments were made in each of these contingent consideration components, resulting in a remaining balance of $360,710 as of March 31, 2016. On October 19, 2015, SWK acquired certain assets of Oates & Company, LLC (Oates) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the Oates Purchase Agreement) for cash of $125,000 and a promissory note for $175,000 (the Oates Note). The Oates Note is due in three years from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two (2%) percent. The monthly payments including interest are $5,012. At March 31, 2016 the outstanding balance was $151,149. Additionally in connection with the Oates Purchase Agreement, the Company issued a Convertible Note for $200,000. The Convertible Note is due January 1, 2017 and bears interest at a rate of one (1%) percent. The quarterly interest payments are computed on the basis of 365-day year from the date of this note until paid. The Companys may, at its sole and exclusive option, convert, at any time until payment in full of this Note, all or any part of the principal amount of the Note plus accrued interest, into shares of the Companys Common Stock, at the price per share equal to $3.00 per share. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company had a net decrease in cash of $519,777. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by operating activities The Company generated $68,807 in cash from operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to generating $450,758 of cash for operating activities for the same period in 2015. This increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to a decrease in accounts receivable offset partially by an increase in accounts payable. Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 used cash of $191,734. This use of cash is attributed to purchases of property and equipment and costs related to the internal development of software. 23 Table of Contents Cash used in financing activities Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 used cash of $396,850 as compared to generating cash of $730,155 for the same period in 2015. The decrease was due primarily to the payment of a cash dividend and $812,000 provided by equity raise in prior year. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, and the availability of its Credit Line, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations as a result of inflation for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory obsolescence, intangible assets, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, there have been no new significant accounting policies or accounting pronouncements from those disclosed in our annual 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. We have identified below the accounting policies, revenue recognition and software costs, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when products are shipped, or services are rendered, evidence of a contract exists, the price is fixed or reasonably determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Product Revenue Software product revenue is recognized when the product is shipped to the customer. The Company treats the software component and the professional services consulting component as two separate arrangements that represent separate units of accounting. The arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based upon that units proportion of the fair value. In a situation where both components are present, software sales revenue is recognized when collectability is reasonably assured and the product is delivered and has stand-alone value based upon vendor specific objective evidence. Service Revenue Service revenue is comprised of primarily professional service consulting revenue, maintenance revenue and other ancillary services provided as described below. Professional service revenue is recognized as service is incurred. With respect to maintenance services, upon the completion of one year from the date of sale, the Company offers customers an optional annual software maintenance and support agreement for subsequent one-year periods. Maintenance and support agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the respective terms of the agreements, which typically range from three months to one year and are included in service revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are classified as revenue, and the shipping and handling costs incurred are included in cost of sales. 24 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based on customer payment and current credit worthiness, as determined by review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors credits and payments from its customers and maintains provision for estimated credit losses based on its historical experience and any specific customer issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectation and the provision established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to receive positive results. Unbilled Services The Company recognizes revenue on its professional services as those services are performed or certain obligations are met. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but tested for impairment annually or whenever indicators of impairment exist. These indicators may include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business or other factors. Intangible Assets The values assigned to intangible assets were based on an independent valuation. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over the useful lives based on the estimate of the use of economic benefit of the asset using the straight-line amortization method. The Company assesses potential impairment of its intangible assets when there is evidence that recent events or changes in circumstances have made recovery of an assets carrying value unlikely. Factors the Company considers important, which may cause impairment include, among others, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends, and significant underperformance relative to historical or projected operating results. Income taxes Deferred income taxes reflects the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as current or non-current based on the classification of the related assets or liabilities for financial reporting, or according to the expected reversal dates of the specific temporary differences, if not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2016 or for fiscal 2015, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. 25 Table of Contents