Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations] 11 Table of Contents The investors holding our convertible debentures will pay less than the then-prevailing market price of our Class A Common Stock. The Class A Common Stock to be issued under the YA Global (f/k/a Cornell) Debentures will be issued at ninety percent (90%) of the lowest Closing Bid Price of the Common Stock during the thirty (30) days trading days immediately preceding the Conversion Date, as quoted by Bloomberg, LP. These discounted sales could cause the price of our Class A Common Stock to decline. Further, because the investor under the YA Global (f/k/a. Cornell) Debentures will acquire our Class A Common Stock at a discount, it will have an incentive to sell immediately in order to realize a gain on the difference. This incentive to sell immediately into the public market to realize a gain on the difference accelerates if the market price of our Class A Common Stock declines. [See Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 6. Managements Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation.] The investors holding our convertible debentures intend to sell their shares of Class A Common Stock in the public market, which sales may cause our stock price to decline. The investors holding our convertible debentures intend to sell the shares of Class A Common Stock in the public market. The number of shares of Class A Common Stock that may be sold is undeterminable at this time. Such sales may cause our stock price to decline. The sale of our Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the YA Global (f/k/a Cornell) Debentures could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the further decline of our stock price. The significant downward pressure on the price of our Class A Common Stock caused by the sale of material amounts of Class A Common Stock under the YA Global (f/k/a Cornell) Debentures could encourage short sales by third parties. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Class A Common Stock is thinly traded and we cannot predict the extent to which a more active trading market will develop. Our Class A Common Stock is thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies. Thinly traded Class A Common Stock can be more volatile than common stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for the Class A Common Stock will develop or be sustained after this offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to access external funding when needed. We currently depend on external financing to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all, when needed. Our inability to obtain sufficient financing would have an immediate material adverse effect on us, and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The price of our stock may be affected by a limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. There has been a limited public market for our Class A common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our stock will continue. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our Class A common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. Our Class A common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could adversely affect the market price of our stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our class A common stock is deemed to be "penny stock," which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our Class A common stock is deemed to be "penny stock" as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our Class A common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our Class A common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Penny stocks are stock: With a price of less than $5.00 per share That are not traded on a "recognized" national exchange; Whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or In issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. Future sales of our Class A common stock could cause our stock price to decline. The sale of a large number of our shares, or the perception that such a sale may occur, could lower our stock price. Such sales could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we consider appropriate. Issuance of our reserved shares of Class A common stock may significantly dilute the equity interest of existing stockholders. We have reserved for issuance shares of our Class A common stock upon exercise or conversion of stock options, warrants, or other convertible securities that are presently outstanding. Issuance of these shares will have the effect of diluting the equity interest of our existing stockholders and could have an adverse effect on the market price for our Class A common stock. 13 Table of Contents Item 2. Description of Property. We do not own any real property for use in our operations or otherwise. On June 10, 2005, we consolidated our two New Jersey offices and moved into 6,986 square feet of space at 5 Regent Street, Livingston, NJ 07039 at a monthly rent of $7,423. On June 2, 2006, the Company entered into a two-year lease, with a one-year extension, for office space at 6834 Buckley Road, North Syracuse, New York, at a monthly rent of $1,800. We use our facilities to house our corporate headquarters and operations and believe our facilities are suitable for such purpose. We also believe that our insurance coverage adequately covers our interest in our leased space. We have a good relationship with our landlords. We believe that these facilities will be adequate for the foreseeable future. font> Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are subject to litigation from time to time arising from our normal course of operations. Currently, there are no open litigation matters relating to our products, product installations or technical services provided. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, no matters were submitted to a vote of security holders. Reports to Security Holders We are a "reporting company" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and we file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In this regard, the Company files Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Reports on Form 10-K and as required, files Current Reports on Form 8-K. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Commission's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission. The Internet address of the Commission's site is (http://www.sec.gov). Our executive offices are located at 5 Regent Street, Suite 520, Livingston, NJ 07039 and our telephone number is (973) 758-9555. 14 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters . Market Information Our Class A common stock, $0.00001 par value, is quoted on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol TYRIA. The following table shows the high and low closing prices for the periods indicated. High Low 2009 First Quarter $ 0.000130 $ 0.000130 Second Quarter $ 0.000190 $ 0.000130 Third Quarter $ 0.000690 $ 0.000130 Fourth Quarter $ 0.000380 $ 0.000130 2008 First Quarter $ 0.000187 $ 0.000125 Second Quarter $ 0.000125 $ 0.000125 Third Quarter $ 0.000187 $ 0.000100 Fourth Quarter $ 0.000125 $ 0.000100 Holders of Common Equity. As of December 31, 2009, the number of record holders of our common shares was approximately 702. Dividend Information. To date, the Company has never paid a cash dividend. We have no plans to pay any dividends in the near future. We intend to retain all earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, for use in our business operations. Sales of Unregistered Securities. In the year ending December 31, 2009, the Company issued the following securities pursuant to various exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company issued 100,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $8,500 in deferred compensation with a fair value of value $18,750. The difference in the market value and $8,500 of deferred compensation repaid was charged to beneficial interest in the amount of $10,250. 15 Table of Contents The Company issued 100,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $8,500 on a note payable with a fair value of value $18,750. The difference in the market value and $8,500 of note repayment was charged to beneficial interest in the amount of $10,250. The Company issued 95,000,000 shares of Class A Common stock for repayment of $9,500 in accrued expenses with a fair value of value $11,875. The difference in the market value and $9,500 of accrued expenses was charged to beneficial interest in the amount of $2,375. The Company issued 1,300,221,773 shares of Class A Common Stock with a total value of $515,671 for conversion of $179,200 of principal on outstanding debentures with YA Global Investments, (f/k/a Cornell Capital Partners). The difference in the market value and the $179,200 repayment was charged to debt conversion discount in the amount of $336,471. We relied upon the exemption provided in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act and/or Rule 506 thereunder, which cover "transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering," to issue securities discussed above without registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company made a determination in each case that the person to whom the securities were issued did not need the protections that registration would afford. The certificates representing the securities issued displayed a restrictive legend to prevent transfer except in compliance with applicable laws, and our transfer agent was instructed not to permit transfers unless directed to do so by our Company, after approval by our legal counsel. The Company believes that the i nvestors to whom securities were issued had such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment. The Company also believes that the investors had access to the same type of information as would be contained in a registration statement. Description of Securities Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, as amended, we are authorized to issue up to: 10,000,000,000 shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.00001 per share; 50,000,000 shares of Class B common stock, par value $.00001 per share; 20,000,000 shares of Class C common stock, par value $0.00001; and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value of $1.00 per share. Below is a description of Trey Resources outstanding securities, including Class A common stock, Class B common stock, options, warrants and debt. Class A Common Stock Each holder of our Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote for each share held of record. Holders of our Class A Common Stock have no preemptive, subscription, conversion, or redemption rights. There are 10,000,000,000 shares authorized and 5,834,695,306 issued and outstanding at December 31, 2009. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to receive our net assets pro rata. Each holder of Class A Common Stock is entitled to receive ratably any dividends declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends. We have not paid any dividends on our Common Stock and do not contemplate doing so in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any earnings generated from operations will be used to finance our growth. Class B Common Stock Each share of Class B Common Stock has voting rights equal to 100 shares of Class A Common Stock. Holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to receive dividends in the same proportion as the Class B Common Stock conversion and voting rights have to Class A Common Stock. There are 50,000,000 shares authorized and there were no shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009. A holder of Class B Common Stock has the right to convert each share of Class B Common Stock into the number of shares of Class A Common Stock determined by dividing the number of Class B Common Stock being converted by a 50% discount of the lowest price that Trey had ever issued its Class A Common Stock. Upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up, holders of Class B Common Stock will be entitled to receive distributions. 16 Table of Contents Class C Common Stock Each holder of our Class C Common Stock is entitled to 1 vote for each 1,000 shares held of record. Holders of our Class C Common Stock have no preemptive, subscription, conversion, or redemption rights. Shares of Class C Common Stock are not convertible into Class A Common Stock. There are 20,000,000 shares authorized and there were no shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the holders of Class C Common Stock are not entitled to receive our net assets pro rata. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock and do not contemplate doing so in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any earnings generated from operations will be used to finance our growth. Preferred Stock Trey filed an amendment to its certificate of incorporation, authorizing the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share. As of December 31, 2009, Trey has not issued any shares of Preferred Stock. Our board of directors is authorized (by resolution and by filing an amendment to our certificate of incorporation and subject to limitations prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) to issue, from to time, shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and other rights of the shares of each such series and to fix the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereon, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following: the number of shares constituting that series and the distinctive designation of that series; the dividend rate on the shares of that series, whether dividends are cumulative, and, if so, from which date or dates, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of dividends on shares of that series; whether that series has voting rights, in addition to voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of those voting rights; whether that series has conversion privileges, and, if so, the terms and conditions of conversion, including provisions for adjusting the conversion rate in such events as our board of directors determines; whether or not the shares of that series are redeemable, and, if so, the terms and conditions of redemption, including the dates upon or after which they are redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates; whether that series has a sinking fund for the redemption or purchase of shares of that series, and, if so, the terms and amount of that sinking fund; the rights of the shares of that series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Trey, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of shares of that series; and any other relative powers, preferences and rights of that series, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions on that series. 17 Table of Contents If we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our affairs, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, the holders of Preferred Stock of each series will be entitled to receive only that amount or those amounts as are fixed by the certificate of designations or by resolution of the board of directors providing for the issuance of that series. Options and Stock Awards During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, the Company adopted the Trey Resources, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the Stock Incentive Plan) to: (i) provide long-term incentives and rewards to employees, directors, independent contractors or agents the Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) assist the Company in attracting and retaining employees, directors, independent contractors or agents with experience and/or ability on a basis competitive with industry practices; and (iii) associate the interests of such employees, directors, independent contractors or agents with those of the Company's stockholders. The Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to 2.4 million shares of Class A common stock under the Stock Incentive Plan. In 2005, the Board of Directors amended this plan to increase the authorize d number of shares to 20 million Class A Common Stock. In 2007, the Board of Directors amended this plan to increase the authorized number of shares to 87.9 million Class A Common Stock. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the Company adopted the Trey Resources, Inc. 2007 Consultant Stock Incentive Plan (the Consultant Plan) to: (i) provide long-term incentives, payment in stock in lieu of cash and rewards to consultants, advisors, attorneys, independent contractors or agents ("Eligible Participants") of Trey Resources, Inc. ("the Company") and its subsidiaries; (ii) assist the Company in attracting and retaining independent contractors or agents with experience and/or ability on a basis competitive with industry practices; and (iii) associate the interests of such independent contractors or agents with those of the Company's stockholders. Total shares issuable under this plan may not exceed twenty (20) percent of the issued and outsta nding shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock. No securities were issued pursuant to the 2004 Plan and 2007 Plans for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and as amended, the Company adopted the Trey Resources, Inc. 2004 Directors and Officers Stock Incentive Plan (the "Directors and Officers Plan") is to (i) provide long-term incentives and rewards to officers and directors the Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) assist the Company in attracting and retaining officers and directors with experience and/or ability on a basis competitive with industry practices; and (iii) associate the interests of such officers and directors with those of the Company's stockholders. The Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to 2.4 million shares of Class A common stock under the Directors and Officers Plan. In 2005, the Board of Directors amended this plan to increase the authorized n umber of shares to 20 million Class A Common Stock. No securities were issued pursuant to the 2004 D&O Plan for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not Applicable Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations includes forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. We use words such as expect, anticipate, believe, and intend and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. You should be aware that actual results may differ materially from our expressed expectations because of risks and uncertainties inherent in future events and you should not rely unduly on these forward looking statements. We will not necessarily update the information in this discussion if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. 18 Table of Contents This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Financial Statements included in this filing. Management is uncertain that it can generate sufficient cash to sustain its operations in the next twelve months, or beyond. It is unclear whether the acquisition of SWK Inc, will result in a reasonably successful operating business and can give no assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to be profitable, obtain adequate capital funding or continue as a going concern. December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 Since the acquisition of SWK, Inc., in June 2004, all revenues reported by Trey are derived from the sales and service of Sage Software and MAPADOC products to various end users, manufacturers, wholesalers and distribution industry clients located throughout the United States, along with network services provided by the Company. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $309,647 (4%) to $7,414,648 as compared to sales of $7,724,295 for the year ended December 31, 2008. These sales were all generated by the Companys operating subsidiary, SWK Technologies (SWKT). A decrease in revenues associated with software sales and maintenance services was partially offset by an increase in revenues related to programming and network. Management continues to focus on marketing and sales across all its product lines. However, due to the current economic downturn, there can be no assurance that sales will increase. The gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $311,645 (11.4%) to $3,043,542 as compared to a gross profit of $2,731,897 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in gross profit in primarily attributed to the change in sales mix. The mix of products being sold by the company changes from time to time, and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. Sales of the larger Sage Software products carries lower gross margin percentage as the relative discount percentage from the supplier decreases. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of sale sin 2009 in primarily attributed to the lower sales. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 41% for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 35.4% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Total operating expenses decreased $13,927 (0.4%) to $3,295,663 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $3,309,590 for the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease is mainly attributed to a decrease in general and administrative salaries. Total other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2009 was an expense of $1,250,141 as compared to an expense of $908,705 for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of $341,436. The increase in other expenses primarily reflects an increase in debt conversion discount and an increase in the loss on revaluation of derivative. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1,502,262 as compared to net loss of $1,486,398 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The change in net loss of was the result of the factors discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. 19 Table of Contents The Company has suffered recurring losses and current liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $5.1 million, as of December 31, 2009, and, as such, will require financing for working capital to meet its operating obligations. These matters raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The recoverability of a major portion of the recorded asset amounts shown in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet is dependent upon continued operations of the Company, which in turn, is dependent upon the Company's ability to raise capital and/or generate positive cash flows from operations. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to achieve profitability through acquisitions of companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams, established customer bases, and generate positive cash flow. We anticipate that we will require financing on an ongoing basis for the foreseeable future. On December 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Cornell Capital Partners, LP (n/k/a/ YA Global Investments YA Global). Pursuant to such purchase agreement, YA Global purchased $2,359,047 of secured convertible debentures which shall be convertible into shares of the Company's Class A common stock. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, two Secured Convertible Debentures were issued on December 30, 2005 for an aggregate of $1,759,047. A portion of this financing was used to convert promissory notes and accrued interest equal to $1,159,047 into new secured convertible debentures and the balance was new financing in the form of secured convertible debentures equal to $600,000 with interest payable at the rate of 7.5% per annum to be issued and sold on the closing of thi s Securities Purchase Agreement and a second secured convertible debenture equal to $600,000 with interest payable at the rate of 7.5% per annum to be issued and sold two business days prior to the filing of the registration statement that will register the common stock shares issuable upon conversion of the secured convertible debentures. The debentures were due on December 30, 2007 and May 2, 2008, respectively, and carry an interest rate of 7.5% per annum. The principal and accrued interest on the debentures are convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock at a price per share equal to 90% of the lowest closing bid price of our Class A Common Stock for the thirty trading days immediately preceding conversion. The aggregate balance due of the YA Global debentures at December 31, 2009 is $1,379,900 for principal and $551,299 for interest. On October 30, 2009, YA Global Investments, L.P. agreed to extend the maturity date of the Convertible Debentures to December 30, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, Trey had a net decrease in cash of $119,560. Treys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by (used in) operating activities . For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company used $326,683 in cash for operating activities as compared to cash provided by operating activities of $259,879 for the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease is primarily attributed to the decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash provided by investing activities. For the year ended December 31, 2009 the Company used $55,586 in investing activities as compared to providing $46,668 from investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease is primarily attributed to the proceeds of $67,379 from cash redemptions of the notes receivable that was received during the year ended December 31, 2008 as well as an increase in purchases of property and equipment in 2009. 20 Table of Contents Cash provided by financing activities . Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 provided a total of $262,709 in cash as compared to using $32,948 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase is primarily attributed to the proceeds of $150,000 from the sale of shares of SWK Technologies during the year ended December 31, 2009 and lower repayments of notes payable, convertible debentures and capital leases. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory obsolescence, intangible assets, payroll tax obligations, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified below the accounting policies, revenue recognition and software costs, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an agreement exists, delivery has occurred, the amount is fixed or determinable, and cash is received. The Company recognizes revenues from consulting and support services as the services are performed. The assessment of collectability is critical in determining whether revenue should be recognized. As part of the revenue recognition process, we determine whether trade receivables are reasonably assured of collection based on various factors. Revenue and related costs are deferred if we are uncertain as to whether the receivable can be collected. Revenue is deferred but costs are recognized when we determine that the collection of the receivable is unlikely. Hardware and software revenues are recognized when the product is shipped to the customer. The Company separates the software component and the professional services component into two distinct parts for purposes of determining revenue recognition. In that situation where both components are present, software sales revenue is recognized when the cash is received and th e product is delivered, and professional service revenue is recognized as the service time is incurred. Commissions are recognized when payments are received, since the Company has no obligation to perform any future services. With respect to the sale of software license fees, the Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Statement of Position 97-2, software Revenue Recognition (SOP 97-2), as amended, and generally recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists generally evidenced by a signed, written purchase order from the customer, (2) delivery of the software product on Compact Disk (CD) or other means to the customer has occurred, (3) the perpetual license fee is fixed or determinable and (4) collectability, which is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis, is probable. With respect to customer support services, upon the completion of one year from the date of sale, considered to be the warranty period, the Company offers customers an optional annual software maintenance and support agreement for subsequent one-year periods. Sales of purchased maintenance and support agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the respective terms of the agreements. 21 Table of Contents Derivative Liabilities The Company accounts for its embedded conversion features in its convertible debentures in accordance FASB ASC 815-10 (Prior authoritative literature: SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", which requires a periodic valuation of their fair value and a corresponding recognition of liabilities associated with such derivatives, and FASB ASC 815-40 Section 05, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Companys Own Stock. The recognition of derivative liabilities related to the issuance of convertible debt is applied first to the proceeds of such issuance as a debt discount, at the date of issuance, and the excess of derivative liabilities over the proceeds is recognized as Loss on Valuation of Derivative in other expense in t he accompanying financial statements. Any subsequent increase or decrease in the fair value of the derivative liabilities is recognized as Other expense or Other income, respectively. The financial statements for the period include the recognition of the derivative liability on the underlying securities issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Debentures with YA Global Investments (f/k/a/Cornell Capital Partners). Accounts receivable The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based on customer payment and current credit worthiness, as determined by review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors credits and payments from its customers and maintains provision for estimated credit losses based on its historical experience and any specific customer issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectation and the provision established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to receive positive results. Impact of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB ASC 810-10 (Prior authoritative literature: SFAS No. 160, Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51. FASB ASC 810-10 requires that ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, and the amount of consolidated net income, be clearly identified, labeled, and presented in the consolidated financial statements within equity, but separate from the parents equity. It also requires once a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained non-controlling equity investment in the former subsidiary be initially measured at fair value. Sufficient disclosures are required to clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the non-controlling owners. FASB ASC 810-1 0 will be effective beginning January 1, 2009. The adoption of FASB ASC 810-10 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB ASC 805-10 (Prior authoritative literature SFAS No 141(R), Business Combinations. This statement provides new accounting guidance and disclosure requirements for business combinations. FASB ASC 805-10 is effective for business combinations which occur in the first fiscal year beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of FASB ASC 805-10 did not have a significant impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements or financial position, but the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions the Company consummates after the effective date. In December 2007, the FASB finalized the provisions of the FASB ASC 808-10, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements. FASB ASC 808-10 provides guidance and requires financial statement disclosures for collaborative arrangements. FASB ASC 808-10 is effect for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of FASB ASC 808-10 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 22 Table of Contents In March 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB ASC 815-10 (Prior authoritative literature (SFAS) No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 which modifies and expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. FASB ASC 815-10requires that objectives for using derivative instruments be disclosed in terms of underlying risk and accounting designation and requires quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts and gains and losses on derivative instruments. It also requires disclosures about credit-related contingent features in derivative agreements. FASB ASC 815-10 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and i nterim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. FASB ASC 815-10 encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial adoption. The Company adopted this standard effective January 1, 2009. The implementation of this standard did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB ASC 350-30, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets. FASB ASC 350-30 amends the factors an entity should consider in developing renewal or extension assumptions used in determining the useful life of recognized intangible assets under SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and adds certain disclosures for an entitys accounting policy of the treatment of the costs, period of extension, and total costs incurred. FASB ASC 350-30must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after January 1, 2009. The Companys adoption of FASB ASC 350-30 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2008, the FASB ratified FASB ASC 840-10, Accounting for Lessees for Maintenance Deposits Under Lease Arrangements. FASB ASC 840-10 provides guidance for accounting for nonrefundable maintenance deposits. It also provides revenue recognition accounting guidance for the lessor. FASB ASC 840-10 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Companys adoption of FASB ASC 840-10 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In November 2008, the FASB issued FASB ASC 350-30, Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets. FASB ASC 350-30 addresses the accounting for assets acquired in a business combination or asset acquisition that an entity does not intend to actively use, otherwise referred to as a defensive asset. FASB ASC 350-30 requires defensive intangible assets to be initially accounted for as a separate unit of accounting and not included as part of the cost of the acquirers existing intangible asset(s) because it is separately identifiable. FASB ASC 350-30 also requires that defensive intangible assets be assigned a useful life in accordance with FASB ASC 350-30-35 and is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company has adopted this standard effective Janu ary 1, 2009 and the Companys adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB ASC 320-10, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments. FASB ASC 320-10 amends the other-than-temporary impairment guidance for debt securities to make the guidance more operational and to improve the presentation and disclosure of other-than-temporary impairments in the financial statements. The most significant change FASB ASC 320-10 brings is a revision to the amount of other-than-temporary loss of a debt security recorded in earnings. FASB ASC 320-10 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009 The Companys adoption of FASB ASC 320-10 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 23 Table of Contents In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB ASC 820-10, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly. FASB ASC 820-10 provides additional guidance for estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. FASB ASC 820-10 also includes guidance on identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. This FSP emphasizes that even if there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability and regardless of the valuation technique(s) used, the objective of a fair value measurement remains the same. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an order ly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. FASB ASC 820-10 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, and is applied prospectively. The Companys adoption of FASB ASC 820-10 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB ASC 825-10, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments. FASB ASC 825-10 amends FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods of publicly traded companies as well as in annual financial statements. FASB ASC 825-10 also amends APB Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to require those disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting periods FASB ASC 825-10 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Companys adoption of issued FASB ASC 825-10 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB ASC 105-10, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162. FASB ASC 105-10 establishes the FASB Standards Accounting Codification (Codification) as the source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied to nongovernmental entities. The only other source of authoritative GAAP is the rules and interpretive releases of the SEC which only apply to SEC registrants. The Codification will supersede all the existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards upon its effective date. Since the issuance of the Codification is not intended to change or alter existing GAAP, adoption of this statement will not have an impact on the Comp anys financial position or results of operations, but will change the way in which GAAP is referenced in the Companys financial statements. FASB ASC 105-10 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after September 15, 2009. In May 2009, the FASB issued FASB ASC 855-10, Subsequent Events, which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. The Company adopted FASB ASC 855-10 effective April 1, 2009 and has evaluated subsequent events after the balance sheet date of September 30, 2009 through the date the financial statements were issued. In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). This Update provides amendments to the criteria in Subtopic 605-24 for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. It establishes a hierarchy of selling prices to determine the selling price of each specific deliverable which includes vendor-specific objective evidence (if available), third-party evidence (if vendor-specific evidence is not available), or estimated selling price if neither of the first two are available. This Update also eliminates the residual method for allocating revenue between the elements of an arrangement and requires that arrangement consideration be allocated at the inception of the arrangement. Finally, this Update expands the disclosure requirements regarding a vendors multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This Update is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not anticipate any material impact from this Update. 24 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2009, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.