Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This annual report on Form 10-K and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, SWK Technologies, Inc., Secure Cloud Services, Inc., and Critical Cyber Defense Corp. (together the Company, we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview SilverSun Technologies, Inc. is involved in the acquisition and build-out of technology and software companies engaged in providing transformational business management applications and professional consulting services to small and medium size companies, primarily in the manufacturing, distribution and service industries. We are executing a multi-pronged business strategy centered on recurring revenue, customer retention and on rapidly increasing the size of our installed customer base. The growth of our customer base is accomplished via our traditional marketing programs, via our Sage Partner Success Program and via acquisitions. After a customer is secured, our strategy is to up-sell and cross-sell, providing the customer with advanced technologies and third-party add-ons that help them transform their business. These add-on products could include application hosting, cybersecurity, warehouse management, human capital management, payment automation, sales tax compliance or any number of other products that we represent. Many of these incremental products and services are billed on a subscription basis, often paying monthly for the service, which increases our monthly recurring revenue (MRR). This strategy increases the average revenue per customer, which facilitates our continued growth, and reduces our cost of customer acquisition, which enhances our profitability profile. 23 Table of Contents Our core strength is rooted in our ability to discover and identify the driving forces of change that are affecting or will affect businesses in a wide range of industries. We invest valuable time and resources to fully understand how technology is transforming the business management landscape and what current or emerging innovations are deserving of a clients attention. By leveraging this knowledge and foresight, our growing list of clients are empowered with the means to more effectively manage their businesses; to capitalize on real-time insight drawn from their data resources; and to materially profit from enhanced operational functionality, process flexibility and expedited process execution. Another key tactical strategy for our Company is developing smart, proprietary business management applications that effectively and efficiently integrate with existing business management systems; and in publishing proprietary solutions for niche markets that address unique manufacturing and distribution challenges and needs. In this regard we publish proprietary EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) software, branded as MAPADOC. MAPADOC is a fully integrated, easy-to use, feature-rich EDI solution for users of Sage Software, Inc.s (Sage) market leading Sage 100 ERP, Sage 500 ERP and Sage EM (formerly Sage ERP X3) software products and for users of the cloud ERP solution published by Acumatica, Inc. It is marketed and distributed by the Companys direct sales force, as well as through its platform partner, SPS Commerce, Inc. and a national network of independent software partners and resellers. Its target market is largely vendors (manufacturers and distributors) who supply big-box retailers (like Walmart, CVS, Target and Costco, etc.) and whom as a result are required to be EDI-enabled in order to transact business with these large customers. As of November 2018, MAPADOC was included on the Sage Software pricelist. As a result, the Sage direct sales team is now permitted to sell MAPADOC. As Microsoft Certified Systems Engineers and Microsoft Certified Professionals, our staff offers a host of mission critical services, including cybersecurity, business continuity, disaster recovery, application hosting, remote network monitoring, server implementation, support and assistance, and technical design of network infrastructure, among other services. We compete with numerous large and small companies in this market sector, both nationally and locally. Distinguished as one of the largest Sage EM (formerly Sage ERP X3) practices in North America, we resell enterprise resource planning software published by Sage, which addresses the financial accounting requirements of small- and medium-size businesses focused on manufacturing and distribution. We also offer services related to these sales, including installation, support and training. These product sales are primarily packaged software programs installed on a user workstation, on a local area network server, or in a hosted environment. The programs perform and support a wide variety of functions related to accounting, including financial reporting, accounts payable, accounts receivable and inventory management. We employ class instructors and host formal, topic-specific, training classes, typically on-site at our clients facilities. Our instructors must pass annual subject matter examinations required by Sage to retain their product-based teaching certifications. We also provide end-user technical support services through our support/help desk, which is available during normal business hours, Monday through Friday. Our team of qualified product and technology consultants assist customers that contact us with questions about product features, functions, usability issues and configurations. The support/help desk offers services in a variety of ways, including prepaid services, time and materials billed as utilized and annual support contracts. Our customers can communicate with our support/help desk through email, telephone and fax channels. Led by specialized project managers, we provide professional services ranging from software customization to data migration to small- and medium-size business consulting. We also are resellers of the Warehouse Management System (WMS) software published by High Jump, Inc. (High Jump), which develops warehouse management software for middle market distributors. The primary purpose of a WMS is to control the movement and storage of materials within an operation and process the associated transactions. Directed picking, directed replenishment, and directed put-away are the key to WMS. The detailed setup and processing within a WMS can vary significantly from one software vendor to another. However, the basic WMS will use a combination of item, location, quantity, unit of measure and order information to determine where to stock, where to pick, and in what sequence to perform these operations. The Accellos WMS software improves accuracy and efficiency, streamlines materials handling, meets retail compliance requirements, and refines inventory control. Accellos also works as part of a complete operational solution by integrating seamlessly with RF hardware, accounting software, shipping systems and warehouse automation equipment. We market the Accellos solution to our existing and new medium-sized business clients. 24 Table of Contents Investing in the acquisition of other companies and proprietary business management solutions has been an important growth strategy for our Company, allowing us to rapidly expand into new geographic markets and create new and exciting profit centers. To date, we have completed a series of strategic ventures that have served to fundamentally strengthen our Companys operating platform and materially expand our footprint to nearly every U.S. state. More specifically, over the past fifteen years, we have outright acquired, acquired select assets of or entered into revenue sharing agreements with Business Tech Solutions Group, Inc.; Wolen Katz Associates; AMP-BEST Consulting, Inc.; IncorTech; Micro-Point, Inc.; HighTower, Inc.; Point Solutions, LLC; SGEN, LLC., ESC, Inc., 2000 SOFT, Inc., Productive Tech Inc., The Macabe Associates, Oates & Co; Pinsight Technology, Inc.; Info Sys Management, Inc. and Nellnube, Inc. Additionally, it is our intention to continue to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. During 2018 the Company continued to expand its customer base and growth trend which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. Some of the key highlights for 2018 are as follows: 1) Revenues increased 17.6% from the prior year. 2) Income from operations was $412,760 as compared to $939,258 in the prior year. 3) Recurring revenue from all sources represents approximately 42.9% of total revenue for 2018 as opposed to 40.7% for 2017. Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased $6,148,284 (17.6%) to $41,000,312 as compared to $34,852,028 for the year ended December 31, 2017. Software sales increased by $921,408 to $6,196,674 in 2018 from $5,275,266 in 2017 for an overall increase of 17.5%. This increase was primarily due to an increase in sales of our accounting software products, such as Sage Enterprise Management (formerly Sage ERP X3), and Acumatica. Service revenue increased by $5,226,876 to $34,803,638 in 2018 from $29,576,762 in 2017 for an overall increase of 17.7%. The overall increases are primarily due to increased sales of software, continued marketing efforts, expansion of the Companys installed customer base, and the Companys strategy to increase its business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. Approximately $1,711,000 of this increase was attributable to the impact across the various consulting practices of the Info Sys Management/Nellnube acquisitions in 2018. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased $3,054,964 (22.0%) to $16,920,404 as compared to $13,865,440 for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in overall gross profit for this period is largely attributable to the increase in revenues from the service business. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the overall gross profit percentage was 41.3% as compared to 39.8 % for the year ended December 31, 2017. The gross profit attributed to software sales increased $188,399 to $2,863,789 for 2018 from $2,675,390 in 2017 which resulted in a decrease in the gross profit percentage from 50.7% in 2017 to 46.2% for 2018. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time which causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. The gross profit attributed to services increased $2,866,565 to $14,056,615 for 2018 from $11,190,050 is 2017 primarily due to the implementations of larger scale accounting systems and the increase in the managed services business. The gross profit percentage attributed to services increased to 40.4% in 2018 from 37.8% in 2017. 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $1,902,056 (39.2%) to $6,752,052 for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $4,849,996 for the year ended December 31, 2017 due to additional sales personnel and related expenses in anticipation of accelerated growth in 2019. General and administrative expenses increased $1,625,001 (22.1%) to $8,979,202 for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $7,354,201 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This is primarily a result of increases in payroll and related expenses associated with the addition of management personnel and acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $703,085 as compared to $620,297 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This increase is primarily due to the amortization of the 2018 acquisitions and the internally developed software what was placed into service during 2018. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were calculated based on the estimated tax rate. The Federal effective rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to change in federal statutory rate from 34% to 21% and Incentive Stock Options (ISO) and 50% of general meal and 100% of general entertainment expense which are not tax deductible. The total provision for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $108,646. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were calculated based on the estimated tax rate. The Federal effective rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to change in federal statutory rate described above and Incentive Stock Options (ISO) and 50% of general meal and entertainment expense which are not tax deductible. The total provision for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $1,394,031. The effective rate for 2017 of 153% was due to a $934,000 tax provision related to changes The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted on December 22, 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams and established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. On May 6, 2014, SWK acquired certain assets of ESC, Inc. pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $350,000 (the ESC Note). The ESC Note matures on April 1, 2019. Monthly payments are $6,135 including interest at 2% per year. At December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the outstanding balance was $30,521 and $102,742, respectively. On July 6, 2015, SWK acquired certain assets of ProductiveTech Inc. (PTI) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for cash of $500,000 and a promissory note for $600,000 (the PTI Note). The PTI Note is due in 60 months from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two and one half (2.5%) percent. Monthly payments including interest are $10,645. At December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the outstanding balance on the PTI Note was $198,106 and $319,249, respectively. 26 Table of Contents On May 31, 2018, SWK acquired certain assets of Info Sys Management, Inc. (ISM) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for cash of $300,000 and a promissory note for $1,000,000 (the ISM Note). The ISM Note is due five years from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two (2%) percent. Monthly payments including interest are $17,528. The ISM Note has an optional conversion feature where the Holder may, at its sole and exclusive option, elect to convert, at any time and from time to time, until payment in full of the ISM Note, all of the principal amount of the ISM Note, plus accrued interest, into shares of the Companys common stock at a price equal to $4.03. At December 31, 2018 the outstanding balance on the ISM Note was $904,436. On May 31, 2018, Secure Cloud Services acquired certain assets of Nellnube, Inc. (Nellnube) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a promissory note for $400,000 (the Nellnube Note). The Nellnube Note is due five years from the closing date and bears interest at a rate of two (2%) percent. Monthly payments including interest are $7,011. The Nellnube Note has an optional conversion feature where the Holder may, at its sole and exclusive option, elect to convert, at any time and from time to time, until payment in full of the Nellnube Note, all of the principal amount of the Nellnube Note, plus accrued interest, into shares of the Companys common stock at a price equal to $4.03. At December 31, 2018 the outstanding balance on the Nellnube Note was $361,774. On July 21, 2016, SWK entered into a Revolving Demand Note (the MTB Revolving Demand Note) by and between SWK and M&T Bank (MTB Lender), a commercial lender. The MTB Lender had agreed to loan SWK up to a principal amount of one million dollars. The interest rate on the MTB Revolving Demand Note was a variable rate, equal to the Prime Rate, plus ninety-five one-hundredths percent (0.95%) per annum. There was a minimum interest rate floor of four percent (4%). The MTB Revolving Demand Note was secured by all SWKs assets pursuant to a Security Agreement. Furthermore, on July 21, 2016, the Company and its Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Mark Meller, individually, entered into Unlimited Guaranty agreements (the Guaranty Agreements) with the MTB Lender. The line was also collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company. Under the Guaranty Agreements, the Company and Mr. Meller personally, jointly and severally guaranteed the liabilities of SWK due and owing under the terms of the MTB Revolving Demand Note. The MTB Revolving Demand Note was cancelled and replaced with the note below in September 2018. At December 31, 2017 there were no borrowings under this note. On September 11, 2018, SWK entered into a Revolving Demand Note (the JPM Revolving Demand Note) by and between SWK and JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPM Lender), a commercial lender. The JPM Lender has agreed to loan SWK up to a principal amount of two million dollars. The interest rate on the JPM Revolving Demand Note shall be a variable rate, equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate, plus two and one quarter percent (2.25%) per annum. The JPM Revolving Demand Note is secured by all of SWKs assets pursuant to a Security Agreement. The line is also collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company. The JPM Revolving Demand Note expires August 31, 2019. At December 31, 2018 there were no borrowings under the JPM Revolving Note. On January 2, 2019, the Company acquired certain assets of Partners in Technology, Inc (PIT) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement. In consideration for the acquired assets, the Company paid $60,000 in cash and a promissory note in the principal amount of $174,000 (PIT Note). During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company had a net decrease in cash of $334,490. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by operating activities The Company generated $1,294,564 in cash from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to generating $2,308,825 of cash for operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017. This decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to a decrease in accounts payable and deferred revenue and an increase in selling and general administrative expenses. Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 used cash of $1,063,546 as compared to using $815,510 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2017. The Company had approximately $100,000 less in purchases of property and equipment offset by approximately $100,000 in software development costs. In the current year, the Company acquired businesses for $300,000 versus prior year of $60,000 of a customer list. 27 Table of Contents Cash used in financing activities Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 used cash of $565,508 as compared to using cash of $879,017 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This decrease in cash used in financing activities is mostly attributed to the payment of a cash dividend in the prior year. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, and the availability of its credit line, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months from the date of issuance of these financial statements. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations because of inflation for the year ended December 31, 2018. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, intangible assets, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified below the accounting policies, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of Topic 606 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. Topic 606 defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation, among others. Topic 606 also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining customer contracts. Topic 606 was effective as of January 1, 2018 using either of two methods: (1) retrospective application of Topic 606 to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within Topic 606 or (2) retrospective application of Topic 606 with the cumulative effect of initially applying Topic 606 recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures as defined per Topic 606. The Company adopted Topic 606 pursuant to the method (2) and it determined that any cumulative effect for the initial application did not require an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018. Software product revenue is recognized when the product is delivered to the customer and the Companys performance obligation is fulfilled. Service revenue is recognized when the professional consulting, maintenance or other ancillary services are provided to the customer. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are classified as revenue, and the shipping and handling costs incurred are included in cost of sales. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable consist primarily of invoices for maintenance and professional services. Full payment for software ordered by customers is primarily due in advance of ordering from the software supplier. Payments for maintenance and support plan renewals are due before the beginning of the maintenance period. Terms under our professional service agreements are generally 50% due in advance and the balance on completion of the services. 28 Table of Contents The Company maintains an allowance for bad debt estimated by considering a number of factors, including the length of time the amounts are past due, the Companys previous loss history and the customers current ability to pay its obligations. Accounts are written off against the allowance when deemed uncollectable. Unbilled Services The Company recognizes revenue on its professional services as those services are performed. Unbilled services represent the revenue recognized but not yet invoiced. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but tested for impairment annually or whenever indicators of impairment exist. These indicators may include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business or other factors. Definite Lived Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets The values assigned to intangible assets were based on an independent valuation. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over the useful lives based on the estimate of the use of economic benefit of the asset using the straight-line amortization method. The Company assesses potential impairment of its intangible assets and other long-lived assets when there is evidence that recent events or changes in circumstances have made recovery of an assets carrying value unlikely. Factors the Company considers important, which may cause impairment include, among others, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends, and significant underperformance relative to historical or projected operating results. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as net operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current based on the classification of the related assets or liabilities for financial reporting, or according to the expected reversal dates of the specific temporary differences, if not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company has federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards which are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Reform includes a number of changes in existing tax law impacting businesses including a permanent reduction in the U.S. federal statutory rate from 34% to 21%, effective on January 1, 2018. Under U.S. GAAP, changes in tax rates and tax law are accounted for in the period of enactment and deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the enacted tax rate. The rate reconciliation includes the Companys assessment of the accounting under the Tax Reform and is based on information that was available to management at the time the consolidated financial statements were prepared. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. Tax years 2014 to 2018 remain open to examination for both the U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2018, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. 29 Table of Contents