Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition The Company has elected the significant financing component practical expedient in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. In determining the transaction price, the Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component as the Company expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less. Software product revenue is recognized when the product is delivered to the customer and the Companys performance obligation is fulfilled. Service revenue is recognized when the professional consulting, maintenance or other ancillary services are provided to the customer. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are classified as revenue, and the shipping and handling costs incurred are included in cost of sales. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable consist primarily of invoices for maintenance and professional services. Full payment for software ordered by customers is primarily due in advance of ordering from the software supplier. Payments for maintenance and support plan renewals are due before the beginning of the maintenance period. Terms under our professional service agreements are generally 50% due in advance and the balance on completion of the services. The Company maintains an allowance for bad debt estimated by considering a number of factors, including the length of time the amounts are past due, the Companys previous loss history and the customers current ability to pay its obligations. Accounts are written off against the allowance when deemed uncollectable. Unbilled Services The Company recognizes revenue on its professional services as those services are performed. Unbilled services represent the revenue recognized but not yet invoiced. 28 Table of Contents Definite Lived Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets The values assigned to intangible assets were based on an independent valuation. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over the useful lives based on the estimate of the use of economic benefit of the asset using the straight-line amortization method. The Company assesses potential impairment of its intangible assets and other long-lived assets when there is evidence that recent events or changes in circumstances have made recovery of an assets carrying value unlikely. Factors the Company considers important, which may cause impairment include, among others, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends, and significant underperformance relative to historical or projected operating results. Business Combinations We account for business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting. This method requires the recording of acquired assets and assumed liabilities at their acquisition date fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. Results of operations related to business combinations are included prospectively beginning with the date of acquisition and transaction costs related to business combinations are recorded within general and administrative expenses. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method described in FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes. Deferred tax assets arise from a variety of sources, the most significant being: a) tax losses that can be carried forward to be utilized against profits in future years; b) expenses recognized for financial reporting purposes but disallowed in the tax return until the associated cash flow occurs; and c) valuation changes of assets which need to be tax effected for book purposes but are deductible only when the valuation change is realized. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as net operating loss carryforwards. Based on ASU 2015-17, all deferred tax assets or liabilities are classified as long-term. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company accounts for uncertainties in income taxes under ASC 740-10-50 which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. ASC 740-10 requires that the Company determine whether the benefits of its tax positions are more-likely-than-not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. The Company recognizes the impact of an uncertain income tax position taken on its income tax return at the largest amount that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. The Company has federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards which are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. Tax years 2018 to 2021 remain open to examination for both the U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. Despite the Companys belief that its tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax laws, one or more positions may be challenged by taxing authorities. Settlement of any challenge can result in no change, a complete disallowance, or some partial adjustment reached through negotiations or litigation. Interest and penalties related to income tax matters, if applicable, will be recognized as income tax expense. There were no liabilities for uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2021 and 2020. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 the Company did not incur any expense related to interest or penalties for income tax matters, and no such amounts were accrued as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2021, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities, nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. 29 Table of Contents