Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This annual report on Form 10-K and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. (the Company) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the this Annual Report on Form 10-K., relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. 14 Table of Contents Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview The Company focuses on the business software and information technology consulting market, and is looking to acquire other companies in this industry. SWK Technologies, Inc. (SWK Technologies), the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary and the sole source of the Companys revenue, is a New Jersey-based information technology subsidiary of the Company, value added reseller, and master developer of licensed accounting and financial software published by Sage Software. SWK Technologies also publishes 36 proprietary software solutions and enhancements, including its supply-chain software, the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) solution MAPADOC. SWK Technologies sells services and products to various end users, manufacturers, wholesalers and distribution industry clients located throughout the United States, along with network services provided by the Company. We continue to develop and increase our existing business by aggressively seeking new business and offering solutions to our customers, including our own proprietary software. We specialize in ERP software sales and implementation, programming, and training and technical support, aimed at improving the financial reporting and operational efficiencies of small and medium sized companies. The sale of our financial accounting software and programming services are sold to corporations nationwide. Additionally, it is our intention to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In June 2012 the Company completed the purchase of selected assets and obligations of HighTower, Inc., a leading Chicago-based reseller of Sage software applications and a publisher of proprietary business management software enhancements. HighTowers customers and business products and services have been integrated into the infrastructure of SWK Technologies, SilverSuns principal operating subsidiary. In addition to the strategic benefits that this acquisition affords the Company, it brought SilverSun and SWK approximately $1,145,000 of revenues in 2012, approximately 870 additional Sage ERP customers, an impressive suite of proprietary enhancement software solutions (with approximately 700 users) and a much deeper market penetration in the Midwest. Moreover, we look forward to leveraging Hightowers established network of independent resellers to further expand distribution of SWKs proprietary software solutions, and vice versa. This acquisition marks an important milestone for SilverSun, and one that should have notable impact on our revenue and earnings growth in 2012 and well beyond. During 2011 SWK Technologies, Inc., also acquired the Sage software customer accounts of IncorTech, a Southern California-based Sage business partner. This transaction increases the Companys geographical influence. The focus in Southern California will be to sell and support our MAPADOC integrated EDI solution and to market Sage ERP X3 to both former IncorTech customers, where suitable, and to new prospects. IncorTech has provided professional accounting, technology, and business consulting services to over 300 clients. In June 2012, SWK Technologies, Inc. also acquired the sage software customer accounts of MicroPoint, a New York-based Sage business partner. MicroPoint has provided professional accounting, technology, and business consulting services to over 32 clients. With acquisitions serving as a key component of SilverSuns national expansion strategy, the Company will continue to remain very busy qualifying and pursuing opportunities to continue its growth and add to shareholder value. 15 Table of Contents Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased $2,656,905 (25.3%) to $13,178,985 as compared to $10,522,080 for the year ended December 31, 2011. These revenues were all generated by the Companys wholly-owned operating subsidiary, SWK Technologies. This increase is attributed to revenues associated with its newly acquired operation HTI of approximately $1,145,000, of which approximately $192,000 was service revenue, as well as an increase in revenues from its existing customer base. The overall increase is primarily due to the continued marketing efforts and very competitive pricing as well as the Companys strategy to increase its business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. The increase in the Companys maintenance support business of $1,716,008 (89.2%) to $3,640,573 for the year ended December 31, 2012 represents a significant portion of and a great foundation for potential future growth. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased $836,480 (18.6%) to $5,334,100 as compared to $4,497,620 for the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in gross profit for this period is mostly attributed to the recent acquisition of HTI as well as the higher level of sales. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the gross profit percentage was 40.5% as compared to 42.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. The change in sales mix year ended December 31, 2012, resulted in gross profit being slightly lower as a percent of sales as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily a result of higher software sales, which sales have a lower gross profit. In addition, the Company, when acquiring business accounts from other resellers, will often enter into revenue sharing agreements for a period of time with the selling reseller. The Company currently has 12 revenue sharing agreements, which often have the result of reducing the Companys reported gross margins. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $458,434 (24.9%) to $2,302,258 for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $1,843,824 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of the continued increase in sales activity and incremental expenses associated with HTI. General and administrative expenses increased $579,738 (25.2%) to $2,876,456 for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $2,296,718 for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily as a result of increases in payroll related expenses as the Company hired additional employees to support the higher sales activity, rent, investment banking, investor relations and insurance expenses. On January 4, 2012, in accordance with options granted in January 2011, Mr. Meller sold portions of his Convertible Note payable to certain employees of SWK Technologies, Inc. in the amount of $13,235. On January 4, 2012, Mr. Meller converted $30,458 of the Convertible Note into 60,154,178 shares of the Companys Common Stock, and those certain employees converted the $13,238 into 23,139,523 shares of the Companys Common Stock. As a consequence the Company recognized $719,267 of share-based compensation expense in 2012. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company recognized $416,991 of share-based compensation as a result of the granting of stock options to most of its non-executive employees. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $98,550 for the year ended December 31, 2012 to $195,560 as compared to $97,011 for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase is primarily attributed to the increase in amortization associated with the newly acquired intangible assets. Income (Loss) from Operations Total net loss from operations was $1,176,432 for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to net income from operations of $260,057 for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily attributed to non-cash share-based compensation of $1,136,258 as discussed above. Other Income (Expense) For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company had other expense of $58,738 as compared to other income for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $2,448,864. This change is primarily attributed to the gain on the extinguishment of debt and derivative liability for the year ended December 31, 2011. Net Income (Loss) For year ended December 31, 2012, the Company had a net loss of $1,235,170 as compared to net income of $2,708,931 for the year ended December 31, 2011, The change is attributed to the non-cash share-based compensation expense in 2012 and the gain on the extinguishment of debt and derivative liability realized in 2011 which was not available in 2012. 16 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams, established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. In October 2011, the Company obtained a line of credit from a bank. The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000. Interest on outstanding balances is payable daily at an interest rate that is two and three quarter percentage points (2.75%) above the Prime Rate. The Companys interest rate was 6% at December 31, 2012. The line was collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is personally guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Office, Mr. Mark Meller. The credit facility required the Company to pay a monitoring fee of 0.315% of eligible collateral to be paid monthly. An annual facility fee equal to one percent (1%) of the Maximum Credit is assessed upon the initial funding, annually thereafter. The term of the agreement is for three years and expires in October 2014. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has an outstanding balance of $178,633. As of December 31, 2012, the availability under this line was $571,367. At December 31, 2012, the Company was in compliance with the required financial covenants, the fixed charge ratio and debt to net worth. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company had a net decrease in cash of $229,239. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash used in operating activities The Company provided $392,803 in cash from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to providing $905,906 of cash for operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011. This decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to an increase in accounts receivable and a decrease in deferred revenues offset partially by an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 used cash of $744,374 as compared to using $40,653 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase in cash used is attributed to the increase in purchases of property and equipment, software development costs and intangible assets, including the acquisition of selected assets of HighTower. Cash provided by financing activities Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 provided cash of $122,332 as compared to using $735,875 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase in cash provided by financing activities is attributed to proceeds from the line of credit and as compared to receiving proceeds from the promissory notes and convertible debenture offset by the repayment of convertible debentures during the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, recent acquisitions, and the availability of its credit line, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations as a result of inflation for the year ended December 31, 2012. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory obsolescence, intangible assets, payroll tax obligations, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 17 Table of Contents We have identified below the accounting policies, revenue recognition and software costs, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when products are shipped, or services are rendered, evidence of a contract exists, the price is fixed or reasonably determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Product Revenue Software product revenue is recognized when the product is shipped to the customer. The Company treats the software component and the professional services consulting component as two separate arrangements that represent separate units of accounting. The arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based upon that units proportion of the fair value. In a situation where both components are present, software sales revenue is recognized when collectability is reasonably assured and the product is delivered and has stand-alone value based upon vendor specific objective evidence. Service Revenue Service revenue is comprised of primarily professional service consulting revenue, maintenance revenue and other ancillary services provided as described below. Professional service revenue is recognized as service time is incurred. With respect to maintenance services, upon the completion of one year from the date of sale, considered to be the warranty period, the Company offers customers an optional annual software maintenance and support agreement for subsequent one-year periods. Maintenance and support agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the respective terms of the agreements, which typically range from three months to one year and are included in service revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Operations Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are classified as revenue, and the shipping and handling costs incurred are included in cost of sales. Accounts receivable The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based on customer payment and current credit worthiness, as determined by review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors credits and payments from its customers and maintains provision for estimated credit losses based on its historical experience and any specific customer issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectation and the provision established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to receive positive results. Intangible Assets The values assigned to intangible assets are based on an independent valuation. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over the useful lives based on the estimate of the use of economic benefit of the asset using the straight-line amortization method. The Company assesses potential impairment of its intangible assets when there is evidence that recent events or changes in circumstances have made recovery of an assets carrying value unlikely. Factors the Company considers important, which may cause impairment include, among others, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends, and significant underperformance relative to historical or projected operating results. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2012, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.