Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, SWK Technologies, Inc., Secure Cloud Services, Inc., and Critical Cyber Defense Corp. (collectively the Company, we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview The Company is engaged in providing transformational business management applications and technologies and professional consulting services to small and medium size companies, primarily in the manufacturing, distribution and service industries. We are executing a multi-pronged business strategy centered on recurring revenue, customer retention and on rapidly increasing the size of our installed customer base. The growth of our customer base is accomplished via our traditional marketing programs and acquisitions. After a customer is secured, our strategy is to up-sell and cross-sell, providing the customer with advanced technologies and third-party add-ons that help them digitally transform their business. These add-on products could include application hosting, cybersecurity, warehouse management, human capital management, payment automation, sales tax compliance or any number of other products or services that we represent. Many of these incremental products and services are billed on a subscription basis, often paying monthly for the service, which increases our monthly recurring revenue (MRR). This strategy increases the average revenue per customer, which facilitates our continued growth, and reduces our cost of customer acquisition, which enhances our profitability profile. Our core strength is rooted in our ability to discover and identify the driving forces of change that are affecting or will affect businesses in a wide range of industries. We invest valuable time and resources to fully understand how technology is transforming the business management landscape and what current or emerging innovations are deserving of a clients attention. By leveraging this knowledge and foresight, our growing list of clients are empowered with the means to more effectively manage their businesses; to capitalize on real-time insight drawn from their data resources; and to materially profit from enhanced operational functionality, process flexibility and expedited process execution. 24 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). We are a business application, technology and consulting company providing strategies and solutions to meet our clients information, technology and business management needs. Our services and technologies enable customers to manage, protect and monetize their enterprise assets whether on-premise or in the cloud. As a value-added reseller of business application software, we offer solutions for accounting and business management, financial reporting, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Human Capital Management (HCM), Warehouse Management Systems (WMS), Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and Business Intelligence (BI). Additionally, we have our own development staff building software solutions for various ERP enhancements. Our value-added services focus on consulting and professional services, specialized programming, training, and technical support. We have a dedicated Information Technology (IT) network services practice that provides managed services, Infrastructure-as-a-Service, cybersecurity, application hosting, disaster recovery, business continuity, cloud and other services. Our customers are nationwide, with concentrations in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area, Arizona, Connecticut, Southern California, North Carolina, Washington, Oregon and Illinois. Our core business is divided into the following practice areas: ERP (Enterprise Resource Management) and Accounting Software We are a value-added reseller for a number of industry-leading ERP applications. We are a Sage Software Authorized Business Partner and Sage Certified Gold Development Partner. We believe we are among the largest Sage partners in North America, with a sales and implementation presence complemented by a scalable software development practice for customizations and enhancements. Due to the growing demand for cloud-based ERP solutions, we also have in our ERP portfolio Acumatica, a browser-based ERP solution that can be offered on premise, in the public cloud, or in a private cloud. We have recently added Sage Intacct, a cloud-based solution for core financials to our offerings of cloud-based solutions. We develop and resell a variety of add-on solutions to all our ERP and accounting packages that help customize the installation to our customers needs and streamline their operations. Value-Added Services for ERP We go beyond simply reselling software packages; we have a consulting and professional services organization that manages the process as we move from the sales stage into implementation, go live, and production. We work inside our customers organizations to ensure all software and IT solutions are enhancing their business needs. A significant portion of our services revenue comes from continuing to work with existing customers as their business needs change, upgrading from one version of software to another, or providing additional software solutions to help them manage their business and grow their revenue. We have a dedicated help desk team that fields hundreds of calls every week. Our custom programming department builds specialized software packages as well as off the shelf enhancements and time and billing software. IT Managed Network Services and Business Consulting We provide comprehensive IT managed services, Infrastructure-as-a-Service, cybersecurity, business continuity, disaster recovery, data back-up, network maintenance and service upgrades designed to eliminate the IT concerns of our customers. We are a Microsoft Solutions Provider. Our staff includes engineers who maintain certifications from Microsoft and Sage Software. They are Microsoft Certified Systems Engineers and Microsoft Certified Professionals, and they provide a host of services for our clients, including remote network monitoring, server implementation, support and assistance, operation and maintenance of large central systems, technical design of network infrastructure, technical troubleshooting for large scale problems, network and server security, and backup, archiving, and storage of data from servers. There are numerous competitors, both larger and smaller, nationally and locally, with whom we compete in this market. Cybersecurity We provide enterprise level security services to the mid-market. Our cybersecurity-as-a-service offering includes a security operations center, incident response, cybersecurity assessments, and hacking simulations. The service is particularly well-suited for customers in compliance-driven and regulated industries, including financial services, pension administration, insurance, and the land and title sector. Application Hosting Application hosting is a type of SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) hosting solution that allows applications to be available from a remote cloud infrastructure and to be accessed by users through the internet. 25 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Investing in the acquisition of other companies and proprietary business management solutions has been an important growth strategy for our Company, allowing us to rapidly expand into new geographic markets and create new and exciting profit centers. To date, we have completed a series of strategic ventures that have served to fundamentally strengthen our Companys operating platform and materially expand our footprint to nearly every U.S. state. More specifically, over the past fifteen years, we have outright acquired select assets of or entered into revenue sharing agreements with Business Tech Solutions Group, Inc.; Wolen Katz Associates; AMP-BEST Consulting, Inc.; IncorTech; Micro-Point, Inc.; HighTower, Inc.; Point Solutions, LLC; SGEN, LLC., ESC, Inc., 2000 SOFT, Inc., Productive Tech Inc., The Macabe Associates, Oates & Co; Pinsight Technology, Inc.; Info Sys Management, Inc., Nellnube, Inc., Partners in Technology Inc., Prairie Technology Solutions Group, Inc., Computer Management Services, LLC, Business Software Solutions, PeopleSense, Inc., and more recently Dynamic Tech Services, Inc. and NEO3, LLC. Additionally, it is our intention to continue to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. During the first quarter of 2023, the Company continued to expand its customer base and growth trend which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Our strategy is to grow our business through organic growth of our software applications, technology solutions and managed services, as well as expansion through acquisitions. We have established a national presence via our internal marketing, sales programs, and acquisitions and now have ERP customers throughout most of the United States. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we continue to invest resources in our people, product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 the Company continued to expand its customer base, which we believe provides a basis for future growth. Revenues increased 19.1% to $13.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $11.0 million for the corresponding period in 2022, despite the current economic conditions, as we continue to grow our customer base. The Company continues to monitor the Covid-19 situation as it pertains to the disruption of our business, and that of some of our customers, and growth in future quarters and will take steps, if necessary, to establish mitigation strategies to try and minimize risk of any potential downturn for shareholders as well the health, safety and wellbeing of its employees and customers. The Companys strategies are focused on assisting our customers in their digital transformation in this new environment. We believe the new work from home environment (workforce of the future), coupled with the continued rise of E-Commerce and security and compliance could help drive our future revenues. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, inflation has impacted the Companys profitability, as it has resulted in increased costs necessary to recruit and retain personnel. As the Company returns back to its pre-Covid marketing and trade show schedules, the higher costs of travel and meals will also have a negative impact on the Companys profitability. On September 29, 2022, the Company entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger (the Merger Agreement) with Rhodium Enterprises, Inc. (Rhodium), an industrial-scale digital asset technology company utilizing proprietary technologies to mine bitcoin (see Note 14 to Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). The proposed business combination is expected to close in the first half of 2023, subject to the receipt of any applicable regulatory approvals, the approval of SilverSun's and Rhodium's respective stockholders, and other customary closing conditions. 26 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Revenues For the three months ended March 31, 2023, revenues increased $2,103,894 (19.1%) to $13,127,738 as compared to $11,023,844 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase is mostly attributed to an increase in professional consulting revenues as well as an increase in software revenue. Software revenues increased $711,367 (27.2%) to $3,322,329 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $2,610,962 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily as a result of an increase in our ERP software sales, especially for Acumatica and Sage Intacct. Service revenue increased $1,392,527 (16.6%) to $9,805,409 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $8,412,882 the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase is mainly attributed to the increase in professional services, especially for our Acumatica, Sage 100, Sage Intacct and Custom products as well as an increase in our hosting services. Our efforts to increase and train our internal consulting staff as well as system improvements has yielded a positive result. We have also utilized some outside contractors to assist in projects because of our growth. Gross profit Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased $652,693 (13.9%) to $5,357,560 as compared to $4,704,867 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the overall gross profit percentage was 40.8% as compared to 42.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The gross profit attributed to software revenues increased $303,671 (28.0%) to $1,390,054 for the three ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $1,086,383 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, due mostly to the increased volume of software sold. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the gross profit percentage on software revenue was 41.8% as compared to 41.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The gross profit attributed to services increased $349,022 (9.6%) to $3,967,506 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $3,618,484 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase is attributed to revenue increases in professional services and application hosting. This was partially offset by lower gross profit for professional consulting. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the gross profit percentage on service revenue was 40.5% as compared to 43.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Operating expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $402,892 (22.7%) to $2,178,703 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $1,775,811 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase is primarily due to increased salary increases, new personnel, higher commissions to employees as a result of the increased revenues as well as increased travel expenses associated with attendance at trade shows and conferences. This was partially offset by lower advertising expenses and sponsorship fees received for our conferences that help offset the costs. General and administrative expenses decreased $80,949 (3.1%) to $2,560,028 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $2,640,977 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease is a result of several factors, including a decrease in credit card fees, lower rent and supply expenses as well as lower state excise taxes offset partially by salary increases and higher travel, bad debt and license expenses. Share-based compensation decreased $4,448 to $41,497 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $45,945 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $54,055 to $207,795 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $261,850 for the three and months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease is primarily due to the lower amortization of intangible assets as a result of certain intangible assets being fully amortized. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Income (loss) income from operations As a result of the above, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had net income from operations of $369,537 as compared to a loss from operations of $19,716 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources The uncertainty on the economy continues to create uncertainty for the Company in the coming months and quarters. While our Company has not been significantly impacted because of this uncertainty nor from the impact of Covid-19, the potential negative impact on our business, in the future, is impossible to determine at this point, although it is likely that we could suffer negative consequences as many companies go out of business or decrease their technology spending. As such, we need to rely on our own limited resources to weather any economic downturn. Management will continue to monitor developments, explore various cost-cutting measures, and explore other sources of funding, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in doing so. The Company currently has no line of credit or other credit facility with any lender. We continue to review and look for additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting and other markets with solid revenue streams and established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. At March 31, 2023, future payments of long-term and related party debt are as follows: Remainder of 2023 $ 494,190 2024 360,091 2025 258,736 2026 52,188 Total $ 1,165,205 The Companys working capital was $3,361,829 at March 31, 2023 and cash on hand at March 31, 2023 was $6,875,779. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had a net decrease in cash of $1,132,854. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash used in operating activities: Operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 used $783,062 of cash as compared to using $8,246 of cash for the same period in 2022. This increase in cash used in operating activities is primarily due to the decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and the increases in unbilled services and deferred charges, offset partially by the improvement in cash from operations, excluding the non-cash items, such as depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and bad debt expense. Cash used in investing activities: Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 used cash of $4,979 as compared to using $180,548 cash for the same period in 2022, primarily as a result of lower acquisition costs for new businesses and purchases of property and equipment. 28 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Liquidity and Capital Resources (Continued) Cash used in financing activities: Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 used cash of $344,813 as compared to using cash in the amount of $138,890 for the same period in 2022. The increase in cash used is is because of the higher payments of long-term debt associated with prior acquisitions. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, and the funds on hand, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months, provided, however, that the Company cannot currently quantify the uncertainty related to the recent pandemic and its effects on the business in the coming quarters. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, inflation has impacted the Companys profitability, as it has resulted in increased costs necessary to recruit and retain personnel. As the Company returns back to its pre-Covid marketing and trade show schedules, the higher costs of travel and meals will also have a negative impact on the Companys profitability. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2023 or for fiscal 2022, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities. 29 Table of Contents