Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations includes forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. We use words such as expect, anticipate, believe, and intend and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. You should be aware that actual results may differ materially from our expressed expectations because of risks and uncertainties inherent in future events and you should not rely unduly on these forward looking statements. We will not necessarily update the information in this discussion if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Financial Statements included in this filing. Management is uncertain that it can generate sufficient cash to sustain its operations in the next twelve months, or beyond. We can give no assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to be profitable, obtain adequate capital funding or continue as a going concern. December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 Overview In June 2011, the Company changed its name to SilverSun Technologies, Inc. The Company focuses on the business software and information technology consulting market, and is looking to acquire other companies in this industry. SWK Technologies, Inc. (SWK Technologies), the Companys subsidiary and the surviving company from the acquisition and merger with SWK, Inc., is a New Jersey-based information technology company, value added reseller, and master developer of licensed accounting and financial software published by Sage Software. SWK Technologies also publishes its own proprietary supply-chain software, the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) solution MAPADOC. SWK Technologies sells services and products to various end users, manufacturers, wholesalers and distribution industry clients located throughout the United States, along with network services provided by the Company. On June 2, 2006, SWK Technologies completed the acquisition of certain assets of AMP-Best Consulting, Inc. of Syracuse, New York. AMP-Best Consulting, Inc. is an information technology company and value added reseller of licensed accounting software published by Sage Software. AMP-Best Consulting, Inc. sells services and products to various end users, manufacturers, wholesalers and distribution industry clients located throughout the United States, with special emphasis on companies located in the upstate New York region. This year had significant developments that helped change the financial situation of the Company that we hope will provide a basis for our future growth. 1. For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales increased 40.5% to $10,522,080 and the Company generated an operating profit of $260,057 as compared to an operating loss of $937,117 for the same period in the prior year; 2. The Company reduced its liabilities by $3,712,550; 3. The Company repaid YA Global and recorded a gain of $1,461,660 on extinguishment of these liabilities. 4. Mr. Mark Meller, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, forgave $1,338,967 in liabilities due him; 5. The Company completed a 1-for-1,811 reverse stock split of the Companys issued and outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock; and 6. The Company negotiated a line of credit with a commercial bank. Revenues All revenues reported by the Company are derived from the sales and service of Sage Software, MAPADOC, and other third-part software products to various end users, manufacturers, wholesalers and distribution industry clients located throughout the United States, along with consulting and customer support and network services provided by the Company. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, increased $3,035,377 (40.5%) to $10,522,080, as compared to $7,486,703 for the year ended December 31, 2010. These sales were all generated by the Companys operating subsidiary, SWK Technologies. This increase is primarily due to a significant increase in business as a result of strong marketing efforts and competitive pricing as well as the Companys investment in its Sage ERP X3 practice. The largest increases were for consulting services and software sales. Management continues to focus on marketing and sales across all its product lines. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011, increased $1,672,553 (56.7%) to $4,500,116, as compared to $2,872,563, for the year ended December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the gross profit percentage was 42.8%, as compared to 38.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. Sales of the larger Sage Software products carry a lower gross margin percentage while consulting revenues generate a higher gross profit. The change in sales mix for the year ended December 31, 2011, resulted in gross profit being higher as a percent of sales as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase is primarily due the increase in consulting revenues. 15 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased $415,379(10.9%) to $4,225,059, for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $3,809,680 for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase is mainly attributed to an increase in general and administrative professional and consulting fees, administrative salaries and marketing expenses. Income (Loss) from Operations Total income from operations was $260,057 for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to a loss of $937,117 for the year ended December 31, 2010 due to the aforementioned reasons. Other Income (Expense) Total other income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $2,433,874, as compared to $368,612 for the year ended December 31, 2010. This change is primarily attributed to the gain on the extinguishment of debt and derivative liability. Net Income (Loss) For year ended December 31, 2011, the Company had net income of $2,708,931, as compared to a net loss of $568,505 for the year ended December 31, 2010. This change is primarily attributed to the improvement in operations and the gain on the extinguishment of debt and derivative liability. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams, established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. On December 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with YA Global Investments, L.P (YA Global). Pursuant to such purchase agreement, YA Global purchased $2,359,047 of secured convertible debentures, which are convertible into shares of the Companys Class A common stock. Two such debentures were issued on December 30, 2005 for an aggregate of $1,759,047, interest payable at the rate of 7.5% per annum, and included a debenture was issued on May 6, 2006 equal to $600,000 with interest payable at the rate of 7.5% per annum (the YA Global Debentures). On November 9, 2010, the YA Global Convertible Debentures to YA Global were amended with the maturity date being extended to December 31, 2011. This amendment required an initial payment of $175,000 due on January 28, 2011, with additional monthly payments of $10,000 to be made for the following eleven months ending December 1, 2011. The remaining principal and all accrued interest is due on December 31, 2011. This agreement also modified and fixed the conversion price at $.0001, but is also subject to price protection features. The YA Global Debentures are also not convertible during 2011, provided that the payments required by the amended agreement have been made in a timely fashion. During the first three months of 2011, the Company made payments in the amount of $205,000 in accordance with the terms of the amendment. In April 2011, the Company paid YA Global $530,000 to satisfy any and all obligations owed to YA Global, including outstanding principal, accrued interest and liquidated damages. As a result, the Company recorded a gain on the extinguishment of debt in the amount of $1,461,660 and is recorded as other income in the accompanying statement of operations. On April 11, 2011, the Company entered into two promissory notes (each a Note and together the Notes), each in the face amount of $275,000 (the Loans), with two accredited investors. Each Note bears 7% interest and has a maturity date of September 15, 2011. These notes are secured by all of the Companys assets. As partial consideration for the Loans, the Company issued two shares of Series A convertible preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share (the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock), one share to be issued to each investor mandatorily convertible into Class A Common Stock equal to 1% of the outstanding common stock at the time of conversion (no later than January 15, 2012). 16 Table of Contents In October the Company negotiated a line of credit from a bank. The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000. Interest on outstanding balances is payable daily at an interest rate that is two and three quarter percentage points (2.75%) above the Prime Rate. The Companys interest rate was 6% at December 31, 2011. The Company paid a $5,000 documentation fee for this loan. The line was collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is personally guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Office, Mr. Mark Meller. The credit facility required the Company to pay a monitoring fee of 0.315% of eligible collateral to be paid monthly. An annual facility fee equal to one percent (1%) of the Maximum Credit is assessed upon the initial funding, annually thereafter. The term of the agreement is for three years and expires in October 2014. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has no outstanding balance against this line. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company had a net increase in cash of $129,378. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash used in operating activities The Company provided $905,906 in cash for operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to using $38,177 of cash for operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase in cash used in operating activities is primarily attributed to the increased operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011, and an increase in cash from deferred revenues partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 used cash of $40,653, as compared to using $31,725 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase in cash used is attributed to the increase in purchases of property, plant and equipment. Cash provided by financing activities Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 used cash of $735,000, as compared to using $126,236 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase in cash used is primarily attributed to the payoff of YA Global convertible debentures. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory obsolescence, intangible assets, payroll tax obligations, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified below the accounting policies, revenue recognition and software costs, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. 17 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an agreement exists, delivery has occurred, the amount is fixed or determinable, and cash is received. The Company recognizes revenues from consulting and support services as the services are performed. The assessment of collectability is critical in determining whether revenue should be recognized. As part of the revenue recognition process, we determine whether trade receivables are reasonably assured of collection based on various factors. Revenue and related costs are deferred if we are uncertain as to whether the receivable can be collected. Revenue is deferred but costs are recognized when we determine that the collection of the receivable is unlikely. Hardware and software revenues are recognized when the product is shipped to the customer. The Company separates the software component and the professional services component into two distinct parts for purposes of determining revenue recognition. In that situation where both components are present, software sales revenue is recognized when the cash is received and the product is delivered, and professional service revenue is recognized as the service time is incurred. With respect to the sale of software license fees in accordance with GAAP, the Company generally recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists generally evidenced by a signed, written purchase order from the customer, (2) delivery of the software product on Compact Disk (CD) or other means to the customer has occurred, (3) the perpetual license fee is fixed or determinable and (4) collectability, which is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis, is probable. With respect to customer support services, upon the completion of one year from the date of sale, considered to be the warranty period, the Company offers customers an optional annual software maintenance and support agreement for subsequent one-year periods. Sales of purchased maintenance and support agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the respective terms of the agreements. Derivative Liabilities The Company accounts for its embedded conversion features in its convertible debentures in accordance FASB ASC 815-10, which requires a periodic valuation of their fair value and a corresponding recognition of liabilities associated with such derivatives, and FASB ASC 815-40 Section 05, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Companys Own Stock. The recognition of derivative liabilities related to the issuance of convertible debt is applied first to the proceeds of such issuance as a debt discount, at the date of issuance, and the excess of derivative liabilities over the proceeds is recognized as Loss on Valuation of Derivative in other expense in the accompanying financial statements. Any subsequent increase or decrease in the fair value of the derivative liabilities is recognized as Other expense or Other income, respectively. The financial statements for the period include the recognition of the derivative liability on the underlying securities issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Debentures with YA Global Investments. Such liability was extinguished in 2011 as a result of the YA Global debenture extinguishment. Accounts receivable The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based on customer payment and current credit worthiness, as determined by review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors credits and payments from its customers and maintains provision for estimated credit losses based on its historical experience and any specific customer issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectation and the provision established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to receive positive results. 18 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2011, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.