Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. (the Company) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview SilverSun Technologies, Inc. is involved in the acquisition and build-out of technology and software companies engaged in providing transformational business management applications and professional consulting services to small and medium size companies, primarily in the manufacturing, distribution and service industries. We are executing a business strategy centered on the design and development of our own proprietary business management solutions, which now includes our MAPADOC Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) solution and 36 other proprietary solutions and enhancements; as well as on the acquisition of application resellers and software publishers of unique and proprietary solutions in the extensive and expanding, but highly fragmented, business solutions marketplace. Our core strength is rooted in our ability to discover and identify the driving forces of change that are affecting or will affect businesses in a wide range of industries. We invest valuable time and resources to fully understand how technology is transforming the business management landscape and what current or emerging innovations are deserving of a clients attention. By leveraging this knowledge and foresight, our growing list of clients are empowered with the means to more effectively manage their businesses; to capitalize on real-time insight drawn from their data resources; and to materially profit from enhanced operational functionality, process flexibility and expedited process execution. A key tactical strategy for our Company is developing smart, proprietary business management applications that effectively and efficiently integrate with existing business management systems; and in publishing proprietary solutions for niche markets that address unique manufacturing and distribution challenges and needs. In this regard, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SWK Technologies, Inc. (SWK), we publish proprietary EDI software, branded as MAPADOC. MAPADOC is a fully integrated, easy-to use, feature-rich EDI solution for users of Sage Software, Inc.s (Sage) market leading Sage 100/500/ERP X3 software products. Providing seamless integration and dramatically decreasing data-entry time and associated costs, it is marketed and distributed worldwide by the Companys direct sales force, as well as through its platform partner, SPS Commerce, Inc. and a growing national network of independent software partners and resellers, to customers largely supplying big-box retailers, including Walmart, Sears, Target and Costco. 11 Table of Contents In addition, we have developed a proprietary series of cloud-based, SaaS business management solutions created specifically for the U.S. craft brewery and distribution industry. Currently, implementations of our proprietary SaaS solutions, marketed and branded as BeerRun, BrewPub, Brew X ERP (powered by Sage ERP X3) and the Distributor Relationship Management System, have been sold to 35 craft breweries throughout the United Stated and one internationally. These innovative solutions provide brew masters with a single, turnkey database batch/process solution capable of managing their manufacturing operations from forecasting and planning to recipe management to inventory control and traceability, among other critical business functions, including TTB reporting. We also provide high margin, managed IT services to our customers. As Microsoft Certified Systems Engineers and Microsoft Certified Professionals, our staff offers a host of mission critical services, including remote network monitoring, server implementation, support and assistance, operation and maintenance of large central systems, technical design of network infrastructure, technical troubleshooting for large scale problems, network and server security, and back-up, archiving and storage of data from servers. We compete with numerous large and small companies in this market sector, both nationally and locally. Distinguished as one of the largest Sage ERP X3 practices in North America, we resell enterprise resource planning software published by Sage, which addresses the financial accounting requirements of small- and medium-size businesses focused on manufacturing and distribution. We also offer services related to these sales, including installation, support and training. These product sales are primarily packaged software programs installed on a user workstation, on a local area network server, or in a hosted environment. The programs perform and support a wide variety of functions related to accounting, including financial reporting, accounts payable, accounts receivable and inventory management. We employ class instructors and host formal, topic-specific, training classes, both on-site at our clients facilities and at our corporate offices. Our instructors must pass annual subject matter examinations required by Sage to retain their product-based teaching certifications. We also provide end-user technical support services through our support/help desk, which is available during normal business hours, Monday through Friday. Our team of qualified product and technology consultants assist customers that contact us with questions about product features, functions, usability issues and configurations. The support/help desk offers services in a variety of ways, including prepaid services, time and materials billed as utilized and annual support contracts. Our customers can communicate with our support/help desk through email, telephone and fax channels. Led by specialized project managers, our professional services range from software customization to data migration to small- and medium-size business consulting. We also are resellers of the Warehouse Management System (WMS) software published by Accellos, Inc. (Accellos), which develops warehouse management software for middle market distributors. The primary purpose of a WMS is to control the movement and storage of materials within an operation and process the associated transactions. Directed picking, directed replenishment, and directed put-away are the key to WMS. The detailed setup and processing within a WMS can vary significantly from one software vendor to another. However, the basic WMS will use a combination of item, location, quantity, unit of measure and order information to determine where to stock, where to pick, and in what sequence to perform these operations. The Accellos WMS software improves accuracy and efficiency, streamlines materials handling, meets retail compliance requirements, and refines inventory control. Accellos also works as part of a complete operational solution by integrating seamlessly with RF hardware, accounting software, shipping systems and warehouse automation equipment. We market the Accellos solution to our existing and new medium-sized business clients. Investing in the acquisition of other companies and proprietary business management solutions has been an important growth strategy for our Company, allowing us to rapidly offer new products and services, expand into new geographic markets and create new and exciting profit centers. To date, we have completed a series of strategic ventures that have served to fundamentally strengthen our Companys operating platform and materially expand our footprint to nearly every U.S. state. More specifically, over the past seven years, we have outright acquired or acquired select assets of SWK, Inc.; Business Tech Solutions Group, Inc.; Wolen Katz Associates; AMP-BEST Consulting, Inc.; IncorTech; Micro-Point, Inc.; HighTower, Inc.; Point Solutions, LLC; and SGEN, LLC. In June 2013, we signed a Letter of Intent to acquire VICOR Business Services, Inc., a Bethesda, Maryland-based provider of financial and business management consulting services with specific expertise in compliance-oriented federal contracting with U.S. government agencies. Their expertise in project management and time-based systems supporting FAR and CAS compliance for commercial firms and OMB Circular compliance for grants management will add a significant expertise to SWKs capabilities. VICORs staff has assisted clients in passing Federal Contracting audits with DCAA and other audit agencies, helping them to obtain approval to perform on Federal Contracts. Founded in 1989, VICOR offers a full line of Safe, Infor, Dynacom and its own proprietary business management solutions to small and mid-sized businesses; and it also provides a broad range of technical services, training and support to its customers, which are largely concentrated in the greater Washington D.C. market. A definitive agreement will be signed and the transaction completed after completion of due diligence. . Although the letter of intent expired on July 31, 2013, the parties are continuing to negotiate in good faith. In addition, the Company does not expect there to be a significant impact on cash from operations or financing should a definitive agreement be entered into. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, it is our intention to continue to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. The first six months of 2013 continued the growth trend for the Company which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. Some of the key highlights for the first six months of 2013 are as follows: Revenues increased 32% from the prior year. Income from operations increased to $208,979 as compared to a loss of $1,005,372 in the prior year. Net income increased to $177,715 as compared to a loss of $1,042,222 in the prior year. Sales of the Companys proprietary, cloud-based business management solutions created specifically for the U.S. craft brewery and distribution industry has continued to increase since its introduction to market in early 2012; and the number of new sales prospects continues to climb. Continued to book major orders for Sage ERP X3. Engaged Network One Securities, Inc. to advise the Companys management team on financial strategies to support its current growth initiatives. In June 2013 SWK Technologies, Inc., the Companys principal operating subsidiary, signed a Letter of Intent to acquire VICOR Business Services, Inc., a Bethesda, Maryland-based provider of financial and business management consulting services with specific expertise in compliance-oriented federal contracting with U.S. government agencies. Revenues All revenues reported by the Company are derived from the sales and service of Sage Software, MAPADOC, the HighTower Solutions, and third-party software products to various end users, manufacturers, wholesalers and distribution industry clients located throughout the United States, along with consulting and customer support and network services provided by the Company. Revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 increased $799,173 (26.0%) and $1,934,853 (32.4%), to $3,870,598 and $7,915,137, respectively, as compared to $3,071,425 and $5,980,284, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012. These revenues were all generated by the Companys wholly-owned operating subsidiary, SWK Technologies. The increase is in revenues from the existing business related to an increase in maintenance agreements and software sales base as well additional sales generated from its recently acquired operation HighTower, Inc. (HTI) which generated $333,649 and $750,073 of revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013, respectively. The overall increases are primarily due to the continued marketing efforts and very competitive pricing, and the Companys strategy to increase its business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $309,177 (23.8%) and $761,126 (30.7%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 to $1,606,607 and $3,241,730, respectively, as compared to $1,297,430 and $2,480,604, respectively, for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2012. The increase in gross profit for this period is attributed to the increase in revenues from existing business, including the revenues from HTI. For the three months ended June 30, 2013, the gross profit percentage was 41.5%, as compared to 42.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2012. For the six months ended June 30, 2013, the gross profit percentage was 41.0%, as compared to 41.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2012. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $119,006 (20.9%) and $334,758 (30.9%) to $688,863 and $1,418,965, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 as compared to $569,857 and $1,084,207 for the three and six months June 30, 2012 due to increased personnel and travel expenses as a result of the increase in sales activity and incremental expenses associated with HTI. General and administrative expenses increased $158,958 (26.2%) and $236,210 (19.3%) to $765,579 and $1,458,777, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 as compared to $606,621 and $1,222,567 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 primarily as a result of increases in payroll related expenses, rent, utilities, bank fees and office expenses. 13 Table of Contents On January 4, 2012 in accordance with options granted in January 2011, Mr. Meller sold portions of his Convertible Note payable to certain employees of SWK Technologies, Inc. in the amount of $13,235. On January 4, 2012, Mr. Meller converted $30,458 of the Convertible Note into 60,154,178 shares of Class A Common Stock, and those certain employees converted the $13,238 into 23,139,523 shares of Class A Common Stock. As a consequence the Company recognized an expense of $719,267 expense for the six months ended June 30, 2012. Additionally, during the quarter ended June 30, 2012, the Company recognized $408,183 of share-based compensation as a result of the granting of stock options to most of its non-executive employees. Other Income (Expense) Total other expense was $15,154 for the three months ended June 30, 2013 as compared to $14,250 for the three months ended June 30, 2012 due to slightly higher interest expense. Total other expense was $31,264 for the six months ended June 30, 2013 as compared to $36,850 for the six months ended June 30, 2012 due to lower amortization of debt discount. Net Income (Loss) As a result of the above, the Company recorded net income of $62,185 for the three months ended June 30, 2013, as compared to a net loss of $334,031 for the three months ended June 30, 2012. This change is primarily attributed to the increase in revenues and lower share-based compensation. The Company recorded net income of $177,715 for the six months ended June 30, 2013, as compared to a net loss of $1,042,222 for the six months ended June 30, 2012. This change is primarily attributed to the increase in revenues and lower share-based compensation. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to achieve profitability through acquisitions of companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams, established customer bases, and positive cash flow. In October 2011 the Company negotiated a line of credit from a bank. The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000. Interest on outstanding balances is payable daily at an interest rate that is two and three quarter percentage points (2.75%) above the Prime Rate. The Companys interest rate was 6% at June 30, 2013. The line was collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is personally guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Office, Mr. Mark Meller. The credit facility required the Company to pay a monitoring fee of 0.315% of eligible collateral to be paid monthly. An annual facility fee equal to one percent (1%) of the Maximum Credit is assessed upon the initial funding, annually thereafter. The term of the agreement is for three years and expires in October 2014. As of June 30, 2013, the Company has no outstanding balance. As of June 30, 2013, the availability under this line was $741,936. At June 3, 2013, the Company was in compliance with the required financial covenants, the fixed charge ratio and debt to net worth. During the six months ended June 30, 2013, the Company had a net increase in cash of $53,090. The Company's principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by (used in) operating activities The Company generated $286,880 in cash from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2013, as compared to using $58,158 of cash for operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2012. This increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to the increase in income and a decrease in accounts receivable offset partially by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2013 used cash of $29,179, as compared to using $558,359 of cash for the six months ended June 30, 2012. This decrease in cash used is attributed to lower purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets, including the acquisition of selected assets of HighTower. 14 Table of Contents Cash (used in) provided by financing activities Financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2013 used cash of $204,611, as compared to providing $559,791 of cash for the six months ended June 30, 2012. This decrease in cash used in financing used in operating activities is mostly attributed to the repayment of the bank line of credit in the amount of $178,633 during the six months ended June 30, 2013 as compared to proceeds from the credit line of $579,824 for the six months ended June 30, 2012. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, recent acquisitions, and the availability of its credit line it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations as a result of inflation for the six months ended June 30, 2013. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K to the SEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the six months ended June 30, 2013, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities nor have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.