Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 Part II and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 Part II. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, or other risks that we are not aware of become material, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, and you could lose all or a substantial portion of your investment. The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Our common stock has a concentrated ownership among our significant stockholders and, as a result, our common stock may be less liquid and have greater stock price volatility than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership. Since June 13, 2024, when we first sold common stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreements at a price of $9.14 per share, and until we filed our registration statement on Form S-3, the reported closing sale price of our common stock had been highly volatile, ranging from $41.74 to $205.40, in each case substantially higher than the price at which we sold common stock in connection with the private placements pursuant to purchase agreements we entered into on June 13, 2024 and July 22, 2024. While the market prices of our common stock may respond to developments regarding our liquidity, operating performance and prospects, and developments regarding our industry, we believe that historical market prices also reflected market and trading dynamics unrelated to our underlying business, or macro or industry fundamentals, and we do not know if these dynamics will occur again. Under the circumstances, we caution you that investing in our common stock is subject to a high degree of risk. Our stock price could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of other factors, which include: whether we achieve our anticipated corporate objectives; changes in financial or operational estimates or projections; termination of lock-up agreements or other restrictions on the ability of our stockholders and other security holders to sell our securities; and general economic or political conditions in the United States or elsewhere. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such rapid and substantial price volatility, including any stock run-up, may be unrelated to our actual or expected operating performance and financial condition or prospects, making it difficult for prospective investors to assess the rapidly changing value of our common stock. This volatility may prevent you from being able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. 8 Table of Contents Sales of our common stock by current stockholders may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate, and make it more difficult to sell shares of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement registering 789,549,465 shares of common stock held by, or issuable upon conversion or exercise of securities held by, stockholders party to certain agreements with the Company providing them with registration rights. Substantial sales of securities by these stockholders, or the perception that substantial sales will be made in the public market, could have a material adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. In addition, pursuant to the Companys registration rights agreement with JPE and certain other investors party thereto, JPE has certain demand registration rights that may require us to conduct underwritten offerings of shares. Any shares of common stock sold in these offerings will be freely tradable. In the event such registration rights are exercised and a large number of shares of common stock is sold, such sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. We have also registered on Form S-8 all shares of common stock that are issuable under our 2024 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan. As a consequence, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. Any sales of shares by these stockholders could have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock and result in dilution. An active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. There has been limited trading volume of our common stock since we began trading on Nasdaq and, following the transfer of our listing in January 2025, the NYSE. An active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may reduce the market price of our common stock, and you may not be able to sell your shares at an attractive price, or at all. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock in the future and may impair our ability to enter into strategic collaborations or acquire companies by using our shares of common stock as consideration. If too few securities or industry analysts publish research, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, about our business, the price of our common stock and our trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If too few securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our Company, the trading price for our common stock would likely be negatively affected. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade us or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause the price of our common stock and trading volume to decline. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment may depend on appreciation in the market price of our common stock. Although we have previously declared and paid cash dividends on our common stock, we currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board. Accordingly, investors must for the foreseeable future rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. Raising additional equity capital from public or private markets to pursue our business plan may cause our existing holders of common stock to experience substantial dilution or their shares to have a significant decline in trading price. We may raise additional equity capital from public or private markets to pursue our business plan for acquisitions. Any future significant issuances of common stock could result in dilution to our existing holders of common stock. Moreover, any significant issuances of common stock or securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, our common stock could result in a substantial decline in the trading price of our common stock. In particular, in June and July 2024 we did, and in the future we may, issue additional shares of common stock at a significant discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our common stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such a discount. In addition, the perception that new issuances of our securities could occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to arrange additional future financing on acceptable terms, our ability to pursue potential acquisition opportunities or fund our working capital needs could be limited. We intend to finance acquisitions in part through additional equity and debt financings. Because the timing and size of acquisitions cannot be readily predicted, we may need to be able to obtain funding on relatively short notice to benefit fully from attractive acquisition opportunities. In addition, the Company will need to fund its ongoing working capital, capital expenditures and other financing requirements through cash flows from operations and new sources of financing. The sale of additional shares of any class of equity will be subject to market conditions and investor demand for such shares at prices that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders. The sale of additional equity securities could also result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Such inability to obtain additional financing when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and prospects. New investors in future financing transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the Companys existing stockholders. We expect that significant additional capital may be needed in the future to support our business growth. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales may also result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to the holders of our common stock. Participants in the June and July 2024 private placements purchased securities in the Company at a price below the current trading price of such securities, and may experience a positive rate of return based on the current trading price. Future investors in our Company may not experience a similar rate of return. Pursuant to private placements, certain institutional and accredited investors acquired shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $9.14 per share and Pre-Funded Warrants to purchase shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $9.13999 per Pre-Funded Warrant. Furthermore, certain investors purchased Convertible Preferred Stock that is convertible into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $4.566. Because the current market price of our common stock as of the date of this Annual Report is higher than the effective purchase price such investors paid for their securities, there may be a higher likelihood that such investors will sell their shares in the near term. Public investors who purchased our common stock on Nasdaq or, following the transfer of our listing in January 2025, NYSE may not experience a similar rate of return due to differences in the purchase prices they have paid and the purchase prices paid by such investors. The concentration of ownership by Mr. Jacobs and director designation rights may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and could affect the market price of shares of our common stock. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Brad Jacobs, beneficially owns or controls approximately 31.4% of the voting power of our capital stock (including the voting power attributable to our preferred stock). This concentration of ownership and voting power allows Mr. Jacobs to exert significant influence over our decisions, including matters requiring approval by our stockholders (such as, subject to certain limitations, the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions), regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that the transaction is in their own best interests. In addition, under our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Charter), JPE, which is controlled by Mr. Jacobs, is currently entitled to designate a majority of persons to the Board in connection with each meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected because the investors (the Investors) party to the Investment Agreement (as defined below) beneficially own or control approximately 49.2% of the voting power of our capital stock when calculated on a fully-diluted, as-converted basis, assuming the exercise of the Company Warrants. JPE currently holds 900,000 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock and 197,109,065 Warrants, which may be converted or exchanged into an aggregate of 394,218,132 shares of common stock. So long as the Investors party to the Investment Agreement collectively own or control (together with their affiliates) Convertible Preferred Stock, shares of common stock or other voting securities, or Warrants exercisable for such securities, representing, in the aggregate, at least 45% of the total voting power of the capital stock of the Company, calculated on a fully-diluted, as-converted basis, JPE will continue to be entitled to designate a majority of persons to our Board. JPEs right to designate persons to the Board will generally decrease proportionally together with a decrease in the Investors ownership or control (together with affiliates) of Convertible Preferred Stock, shares of common stock or other voting securities, or Warrants exercisable for such securities, calculated 10 Table of Contents on a fully diluted, as-converted basis. Accordingly, Mr. Jacobs may be able to exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs. Such concentration of voting power and designation rights could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or precluding a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our Charter and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our Charter and amended and restated bylaws contain, and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL) contains, provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board. These provisions provide for the following: the right of JPE to designate a majority of our Board; the ability of our remaining directors to fill vacancies on our Board; limitations on stockholders ability to call a special stockholder meeting or act by written consent; rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and the limitation of liability of, and provision of indemnification to, our directors and officers. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that you may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation may not engage in a business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or any of its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporations outstanding voting stock. Any provision of our Charter, our amended and restated bylaws, or the DGCL that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our Charter provides that certain courts in the State of Delaware or the federal district courts of the United States for certain types of lawsuits is the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our Charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for: i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, ii) any action asserting a claim for or based on a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or employees to us or our stockholders, including a claim alleging the aiding and abetting of such a breach of fiduciary duty, iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or employees arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or of our Charter or our amended and restated bylaws (as either may be amended and/or restated from time to time), iv) any action asserting a claim related to or involving us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, or v) any action asserting an internal corporate claim as defined under the DGCL. The exclusive forum provision does not apply to claims arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), the Exchange Act or other federal securities laws for which there is exclusive federal or concurrent federal and state jurisdiction. Unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States shall be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or such other federal securities laws. 11 Table of Contents Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to have consented to the provisions of our Charter described above. Although we believe this exclusive forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law and federal securities laws in the types of lawsuits to which each applies, the choice of forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, other employees or stockholders, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, other employees or stockholders. However, the enforceability of similar forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings. If a court were to find the exclusive choice of forum provision contained in our Charter to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Management We are highly dependent on the continued leadership of Brad Jacobs as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The possibility of the loss of Mr. Jacobs in these roles could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on the leadership of Brad Jacobs as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and we have benefited substantially from his leadership and performance. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of Mr. Jacobs. The loss of Mr. Jacobs services could impair our ability to execute our business plan and could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The past performance by Brad Jacobs or our management team may not be indicative of future performance or results. Past performance by Brad Jacobs or our management team, including transactions in which they have participated and businesses with which they have been associated, may not be representative of our future performance or the returns the Company will generate going forward. Our financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on the historical record of Mr. Jacobs or our management team as indicative of the future performance of an investment of our Company. Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management as well as our ability to attract and retain key talent. Our continued success depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and other key employees. While certain of our executive officers and key employees are subject to long-term compensatory arrangements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain all key members of our senior management. Difficulties in hiring or retaining key executive or other employee talent, or the unexpected loss of experienced employees, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Acquisitions The failure to consummate acquisitions expeditiously, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. Acquisitions are an important component of our business strategy, as we intend to operate a company focused on building products distribution, but currently do not have any operations in this sector. Acquisition opportunities are likely to arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. The evaluation of each specific acquisition target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant transaction agreements and other ancillary documents, disclosure documents and other instruments, requires substantial management time and attention, as well as costs related to fees payable to counsel, accountants and other third parties. Our ability to consummate an acquisition is dependent on a number of factors and conditions that require time, attention and collaboration across multiple parties, including receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals of the contemplated transaction. 12 Table of Contents Certain acquisition opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction. When an identified transaction is not consummated, we are not able to recover the cost spent pursuing such transaction, which reduces the amount of capital available for other identified targets. Failure to complete an acquisition could adversely affect our business as we could be required to pay a termination fee under certain circumstances or be subject to litigation, and our stock price may also suffer as the failure to consummate such an acquisition may result in negative perception in the investment community. Additionally, we may not be able to identify or execute alternative arrangements on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to consummate and integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire and fail to realize the anticipated benefits and our business could be negatively affected from unexpected or contingent liabilities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution or operating procedures. The integration process may entail significant costs and delays. The integration of operations and personnel may place a significant burden on management and other internal resources. The attention of our management may be directed towards integration considerations and may be diverted from our day-to-day operations, and matters related to the integration may require commitments of time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that might have been beneficial to us and our business. Our failure to integrate the operations of companies successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we may fail to identify material problems or liabilities during due diligence review of acquisition targets prior to acquisition, and acquire entities with unknown or contingent liabilities, costs and problems. Further, we may significantly increase our leverage in connection with an acquisition, which could increase our future debt service obligations and limit our flexibility to pursue additional strategic acquisitions. As a result, any acquisitions may not provide the anticipated benefits and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face competition for businesses that fit our acquisition strategy and, therefore, we may have to acquire targets at sub-optimal prices or, alternatively, forego certain acquisition opportunities. Our acquisition strategy is focused on the acquisition of businesses in the building products distribution industry. In pursuing such acquisitions, we may face competition from other potential purchasers. Although the pool of potential purchasers for such businesses is typically small, those potential purchasers can be aggressive in their approach to acquiring such businesses. Furthermore, we may need to use third-party financing in order to fund some or all of these potential acquisitions, thereby increasing our acquisition costs. To the extent that other potential purchasers do not need to obtain third-party financing or are able to obtain such financing on more favorable terms, they may be in a position to be more aggressive with their acquisition proposals. As a result, in order to be competitive, our acquisition proposals may need to be aggressively priced, including at price levels that exceed what we originally determined to be achievable. Alternatively, we may determine that we cannot pursue on a cost-effective basis what would otherwise be an attractive acquisition opportunity. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and operating results may be reduced. The building products distribution industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. Competitive factors in our industry include pricing, availability of products, service, delivery capabilities, customer relationships, geographic coverage, and breadth of product offerings. Also, financial stability is important to suppliers and customers in choosing distributors for their products, and it affects the favorability of the terms on which we would be able to obtain our products from suppliers and sell products to our customers. Some of our competitors may be part of larger companies, and, therefore, may have access to greater financial and other resources than those to which we have access. We may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, any future net sales and net income may be reduced. 13 Table of Contents Our industry is highly cyclical, and prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply may reduce our net sales and/or margins, which may cause us to incur losses or reduce our net income. The building products distribution industry is subject to cyclical market pressures and market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical. Prices of building products are determined by overall supply and demand in the market and we have limited ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors outside of our control, such as general economic and political conditions, interest rates, governmental subsidies and incentives, availability of mortgage financing, inflation, the construction, repair and remodeling markets, industrial markets, housing supply, weather conditions, commodity prices and population growth. The supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity, and excess capacity in the industry can result in significant declines in market prices for those products. To the extent that prices and volumes experience a sustained or sharp decline, any future net sales and margins likely would decline as well. If we have meaningful fixed costs, a decrease in sales and margin generally would have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Regional or global barriers to trade or a global trade war could increase the cost of products in the building products distribution industry, which could adversely impact the competitiveness of such products and the financial results of businesses in the industry. The state of relationships between other countries and the United States with respect to trade policies, government relations and tariffs may impact our business. The U.S. government has and continues to make significant changes in U.S. trade policy and has taken certain actions that could negatively impact U.S. trade, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported into the United States. There is concern that the imposition of tariffs by the United States could result in the adoption of tariffs or retaliatory measures by other countries, leading to a global trade war. Such tariffs or sanctions could raise the cost and reduce the supply of building materials and components. Our success in markets we may chose to enter in the future depends substantially on our ability to source local materials on terms that are favorable to us. In the event of a global trade war or regional dispute, local suppliers may choose to allocate their resources to local players in their markets and provide us with less favorable terms. Building products shortages and price increases for building products could cause distribution delays and increase our costs, which in turn could reduce our competitiveness and impact our ability to do business with certain counterparties. General geopolitical instability and the responses to it, such as the possibility of sanctions, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, including tariffs imposed by the United States and China, and the possibility of additional tariffs, non-tariff barriers or other trade restrictions between the United States and other countries where we might in the future distribute or sell products, could adversely impact our business. If we fail to anticipate and manage any of these dynamics successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Legacy Business Our legacy business may fail to develop new products or may incur unexpected expenses or delays. Although our legacy business currently has fully developed products available for sale, our legacy business may need to develop various new technologies, products and product features and remain competitive. Due to the risks inherent in developing new products and technologies limited financing, loss of key personnel, and other factors our legacy business may fail to develop these technologies and products or may experience lengthy and costly delays in doing so. Although the legacy business licenses some of our technologies in their current stage of development, we cannot assure that the legacy business will be able to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products in order to remain competitive. If the technologies and products of our legacy business contain defects or otherwise do not work as expected, we may incur significant expenses in attempting to correct these defects or in defending lawsuits over any such defects. Software products are not currently accurate in every instance and may never be. Furthermore, our legacy business could inadvertently release products and technologies that contain defects. In addition, third-party technology that is included in such products could contain defects. We may incur significant expenses to correct such defects. Clients who are not satisfied with such products or services could bring claims against us for substantial damages. Such claims could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and, if successful, could result in the plaintiffs being awarded significant damages. 14 Table of Contents The software and technology industry is highly competitive. If our legacy business cannot develop and market desirable products that the public is willing to purchase, such business will not be able to compete successfully. Our legacy business has many potential competitors in the software industry. The ability of our legacy business to compete effectively may be adversely affected by the ability of these competitors to devote greater resources to the development, sales, and marketing of their products than are available to our legacy business. Some of our legacy businesss competitors, also, offer a wider range of software products, have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases than our legacy business. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, customer desires, as well as undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer terms that are more attractive to customers and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than our legacy business. We cannot provide any assurances that our legacy business will be able to compete successfully against present or future competitors or that the competitive pressure will not force us to cease operations of our legacy business. If we are not able to protect our trade secrets through enforcement of our confidentiality and non-competition agreements, then our legacy business may not be able to compete effectively. We attempt to protect the trade secrets, including the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our technologies for our legacy business, through the use of confidentiality agreements and non-competition agreements with our current employees and with other parties to whom we have divulged such trade secrets. If the employees or other parties breach our confidentiality agreements and non-competition agreements or if these agreements are not sufficient to protect our technology or are found to be unenforceable, our competitors could acquire and use information that we consider to be our trade secrets and our legacy business may not be able to compete effectively. We may unintentionally infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Many lawsuits currently are being brought in the software industry alleging violation of intellectual property rights. Although we do not believe that we are infringing on any patent rights, patent holders may claim that we are doing so. Any such claim would likely be time-consuming and expensive to defend, particularly if we are unsuccessful, and could prevent us from selling the products or services of our legacy business. In addition, we may also be forced to enter into costly and burdensome royalty and licensing agreements. The industry of our legacy business is characterized by rapid technological change and failure to adapt its product development to these changes may cause its products to become obsolete. Our legacy business participates in a highly dynamic industry characterized by rapid change and uncertainty relating to new and emerging technologies and markets. Future technology or market changes may cause some of its products to become obsolete more quickly than expected. The trend toward consolidation in the industry of our legacy business may impede its ability to compete effectively. As consolidation in the software industry continues, fewer companies dominate particular markets, changing the nature of the market and potentially providing consumers with fewer choices. Also, many of these companies offer a broader range of products than our legacy business, ranging from desktop to enterprise solutions. Our legacy business may not be able to compete effectively against these competitors. The trend toward consolidation in our industry may result in increased competition in acquiring these technologies, people or products, resulting in increased acquisition costs or the inability to acquire the desired technologies, people or products. General Risks We may be subject to periodic litigation, regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions, brought or threatened against us in the ordinary course of business. Our business is subject to the risk of claims involving current and former employees, affiliates, suppliers, competitors, stockholders, government regulatory agencies or others through private actions, class actions, whistleblower claims, administrative proceedings, antitrust enforcement, regulatory actions or other proceedings. 15 Table of Contents Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, it is often difficult to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such actions or proceedings. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is often difficult to assess or quantify, as plaintiffs may seek injunctive relief or recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts in these types of lawsuits, and the magnitude of the potential loss may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, plaintiffs in many types of actions may seek punitive damages, civil penalties, consequential damages or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. These proceedings or actions could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves and distract our management from the operation of our business. While we maintain insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not cover all types and amounts of potential liabilities and is subject to various exclusions as well as caps on amounts recoverable. We may therefore incur significant expenses defending any such suit or government charge and may be required to pay amounts or otherwise change our operations in ways that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may be highly volatile, with extreme price and volume fluctuations. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by holders of registrable securities, or the perception that sales will be made in the public market, could depress the market price of our common stock and result in further volatility. As a result of such volatility in the market price of our common stock, we may in the future become the subject of securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and distract managements attention and resources. We could be affected by cyberattacks or breaches of our information systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to cybersecurity attacks and other intentional hacking. Any failure to identify and address such defects or errors or prevent a cyberattack could result in service interruptions, operational difficulties, loss of revenues or market share, liability to our customers or others, the diversion of corporate resources, harm to our reputation or increased service and maintenance costs. Addressing such issues could prove to be impossible or very costly and responding to the resulting claims or liability could similarly involve substantial cost. Also, due to recent advances in technology and well-known efforts on the part of computer hackers and cyber-terrorists to breach data security of companies, we face risks associated with potential failure to adequately protect critical corporate, customer and employee data, which, if released, could adversely impact our customer relationships, our reputation, and violate privacy laws. Recently, regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection has heightened in the United States. Failure to comply with applicable data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could harm our business, our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. A failure of our information technology infrastructure, information systems, networks or processes may materially adversely affect our business. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our sales and marketing, financial, legal and compliance functions, communications and other business processes. We also rely on third parties and virtualized infrastructure to operate our information technology systems. Despite significant testing for risk management, external and internal risks, such as malware, insecure coding, Acts of God, data leakage and human error pose a direct threat to the stability or effectiveness of our information technology systems and operations. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could adversely affect our business through transaction errors, billing and invoicing errors, internal recordkeeping and reporting errors and processing inefficiencies. Any such failure could result in harm to our reputation and have an ongoing adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including after the underlying failures have been remedied. Further, the delay or failure to implement information system upgrades and new systems effectively could disrupt our business, distract managements focus and attention from our business operations, and increase our implementation and operating costs, any of which could negatively impact our operations and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents Item 1C. Cybersecurity The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of sensitive data, including confidential and other proprietary information about our business and our employees, customers, suppliers and business partners, is important to our operations and business strategy. As a result, cybersecurity, data classification and data protection are key components of our long-term strategy. We regularly assess risks from cybersecurity threats, monitor our information systems for potential vulnerabilities, and test those systems pursuant to our cybersecurity policies, processes, and practices, which are integrated into our overall risk management program. To protect our information systems from cybersecurity threats, we use various security tools that are designed to help identify, escalate, investigate, resolve, and recover from cybersecurity incidents in a timely manner. Our security operations team (SOT), which is comprised of internal security professionals and reports to the Chief Information Officer (CIO), has first line responsibility for our cybersecurity risk management processes as they relate to day-to-day operations. Our audit and compliance team (ACT), which is comprised of a team lead and the CIO, has second line responsibility and works in partnership with our executive leadership team (ELT) and other internal teams to coordinate efforts, priorities and oversight.Our ACT assesses cybersecurity threats and risks based on probability and potential impact to key business systems and processes. Threats and risks that can cause major damage or service impact that the ACT considers high are incorporated into our overall risk management program. The ACT develops a mitigation plan for each identified high threat and risk and reports its progress with respect to mitigation of such threats and risks to the Technology Risk Management Committee, which is part of our ELT and consists of both management-level employees and members of the Board; such high-level cybersecurity threats and risks are tracked as part of our overall risk management program. We collaborate with third parties to assess the effectiveness of our cybersecurity incident prevention and response systems and processes as our SOT deems necessary or appropriate. These include cybersecurity assessors, consultants, and other external cybersecurity experts to assist in the identification, verification, and validation of cybersecurity threats and risks, as well as to support associated mitigation plans when necessary. Our System and Organization Controls (SOC) Type 2 audit, completed in September 2024, attests to the effectiveness of our security and risk management controls. We have also developed a third-party cybersecurity risk management process to conduct due diligence on external entities critical to our ongoing business operations, including those that perform cybersecurity services. We sponsor a multi-faceted security awareness program that includes regular, mandatory trainings for our personnel on data protection and malware detection, policy and process awareness, periodic phishing simulations and other kinds of preparedness testing including disaster recovery exercises. We maintain a cross-functional cybersecurity incident response plan with defined roles, responsibilities and reporting protocols. This plan, which we evaluate and test on a regular basis, focuses on responding to and recovering from any significant cybersecurity incident as well as mitigating any impact from such incidents on our business. Generally, when a cybersecurity incident or suspected cybersecurity incident is identified, the SOT would escalate the issue to the ACT for initial analysis and guidance. In the event of a significant cybersecurity incident, the ELT would typically be tasked with preparing an initial response. The ELT, with support from the ACT, would be responsible for determining whether a particular cybersecurity incident (alone or in combination with other factors) triggers any reporting or notification responsibilities under applicable law or regulation or pursuant to any contractual obligation. The ACT, in consultation with the ELT and other members of senior management, updates its strategy at least annually to account for changes in our business strategy, legal and regulatory developments across our geographic footprint and further developments in the cybersecurity threat landscape. In addition, we periodically engage a third-party provider to conduct an external assessment of our cybersecurity program. The results of this assessment, which are reported to the Board, assist us in determining whether any further changes to our existing policies and practices are warranted. As indicated above, we engage third-party providers to assist us with our cybersecurity risk management and strategy. Some of these providers provide us with ongoing assistance (such as threat monitoring, mitigation strategies, updates on emerging trends and developments and policy guidance) while we engage others to provide targeted assistance (such as security and forensic expertise) as needed. Prior to exchanging any sensitive data or integrating with any key third-party provider, we assess their cybersecurity fitness against our risk posture and request changes as we deem necessary. 17 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2024, we have not identified any risks from cybersecurity threats (including any previous cybersecurity incidents) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company, including our business strategy, our results of operations or our financial condition. For a discussion of risks from cybersecurity threats that could be reasonably likely to materially affect us, please see our Risk Factors discussion under the headings General Risks We could be affected by cyberattacks or beaches of our information systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and General Risks A failure of our information technology infrastructure, information systems, networks or processes may materially adversely affect our business in this Annual Report. Item 2. Properties We lease and operate our corporate offices in five locations, including our headquarters in Greenwich, Connecticut. The following table sets forth the location, use, and size of certain of our properties as of February 25, 2025: Use Location Square Footage Corporate Office Greenwich, CT 3,100 Corporate Office East Hanover, NJ 5,129 Corporate Office Greensboro, NC 2,267 Corporate Office Sisters, OR 545 Corporate Office Phoenix, AZ 2,105 We believe that all of our properties have been adequately maintained, are in good condition, and are generally suitable and adequate for our current needs. Additional space may be required as we expand our business activities. We do not foresee any significant difficulties in obtaining additional facilities if deemed necessary. Item 3. Legal Proceedings For information related to our legal proceedings, refer to Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies of Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Beginning on January 17, 2025, the Companys common stock began trading on the NYSE under the symbol QXO, and prior to that date the Companys common stock was traded on Nasdaq under the same symbol. Holders of Common Equity As of February 25, 2025, there were 273 stockholders of record. An additional number of stockholders are beneficial holders of our common stock in street name through banks, brokers and other financial institutions that are the record holders. Dividend Information On June 12, 2024, the Board paid a $17.4 million special cash dividend to its stockholders of record in connection with the Amended and Restated Investment Agreement, entered into in April 2024 (the Investment Agreement), among the Company, Jacobs Private Equity II, LLC (JPE) and the other investors party thereto, and related transactions. See Note 3 - Equity of Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information regarding the Investment Agreement and dividends. The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of the Board and depends upon our earnings, if any, our capital requirements and financial position, our general economic conditions, and other pertinent conditions. Unregistered Equity Securities There were no unregistered sales of the Companys equity securities during 2024 that were not previously disclosed in a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in a Current Report on Form 8-K. Transfer Agent Our transfer agent is Equiniti Trust Company, LLC, which is located at 48 Wall Street, Floor 23, New York, NY 10005. Item 6. Reserved 19 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview QXO, Inc. (QXO, we, or the Company) was formerly known as SilverSun Technologies, Inc. (SilverSun). On June 6, 2024, we changed the Companys name from SilverSun to QXO and changed its ticker symbol on Nasdaq from SSNT to QXO, upon completing a $1.0 billion cash investment in SilverSun by Jacobs Private Equity II, LLC (JPE) and certain minority co-investors. Refer to Note 3 - Equity of Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for further details about the investment and related changes to our capital structure. On January 17, 2025, the Company transferred the listing of its common stock, par value $0.00001 per share (the common stock), from Nasdaq to the NYSE. The Companys listing and trading of the common stock on Nasdaq ended at market close on January 16, 2025. The Companys common stock began trading on the NYSE on January 17, 2025. QXO, Inc. is a technology solutions and professional services company that helps businesses manage and monetize their enterprise assets. We do this through our operations, which provide critical software applications, consulting and other professional services, including specialized programming, training and technical support. Our customers are primarily small and mid-sized companies in the manufacturing, distribution and service industries. Our strategy is to create a tech-forward leader in the $800 billion building products distribution industry with the goal of generating outsized stockholder value through accretive acquisitions and organic growth, including greenfield openings and operational transformation of acquired businesses. We are executing our strategy toward a target of tens of billions of dollars of annual revenue in the next decade. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and express the relationship of certain line items as a percentage of net sales for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results: (in thousands, except percentages) Year Ended % of net revenue December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 % Change December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Consolidated Statements of Operations Revenue: Software product, net $ 15,261 $ 14,111 8.1 % 26.8 % 25.9 % Service and other, net 41,612 40,406 3.0 % 73.2 % 74.1 % Total revenue, net 56,873 54,517 4.3 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue: Product 9,434 8,513 10.8 % 16.6 % 15.6 % Service and other 24,507 24,390 0.5 % 43.1 % 44.7 % Total cost of revenue 33,941 32,903 3.2 % 59.7 % 60.3 % Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses 92,943 22,097 320.6 % 163.4 % 40.5 % Depreciation and amortization expenses 989 828 19.4 % 1.7 % 1.5 % Total operating expenses 93,932 22,925 309.7 % 165.1 % 42.0 % Loss from operations (71,000) (1,311) NM (124.8 %) (2.4 %) Interest income (expense), net 121,812 (56) NM 214.2 % (0.1 %) Income (loss) before taxes 50,812 (1,367) NM 89.3 % (2.5 %) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 22,843 (297) NM 40.2 % (0.5 %) Net income (loss) $ 27,969 $ (1,070) NM 49.2 % (2.0 %) NM = Not Meaningful Revenue, net Our consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased $2.4 million or 4.3% compared with the same period in the prior year. Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased across our lines of business as we grew our customer base through strategic acquisitions and continued renewals of our subscription-based services. Specifically, software product revenue increased as we expanded our Sage Intacct and Acumatica product lines, and service revenue increased as we expanded our hosting application services and consulting practices. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased $1.0 million or 3.2% associated with the increase in revenue, compared with the same period in the prior year. Margin increased to 40.3%, compared with 39.6% for the same period in the prior year, as we expanded our product offerings in newly acquired lines of business to grow our customer base. Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased $70.8 million or 320.6%, compared with the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year increases in operating expenses are primarily due to: i) salary and expense and share-based compensation associated with the new senior management team put in place to execute our expansive growth plan, ii) the severance payment contemplated in the Investment Agreement for Mark Meller and, iii) certain transaction costs associated with the private placements and our strategic plan. Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased $0.2 million or 19.4%, compared with the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year increases are attributed to higher amortization expense associated with the acquisition of JCS in 2023. 21 Table of Contents Interest income (expense), net Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2024 increased $121.9 million, compared with the same period in the prior year. The increase is attributed to the interest earned on our cash position due to the cash infusion from the Equity Investment (as defined below) and the private placements that closed in July 2024. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed here and elsewhere in this Annual Report Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income (loss) excluding depreciation and amortization; share-based compensation; income tax (benefit) provision; interest (income) expense; transaction costs; transformation costs; severance costs and other items that we do not consider representative of our underlying operations. We have provided a reconciliation below of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA in making financial, operating and planning decisions and evaluating QXOs ongoing performance. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA facilitates analysis of our ongoing business operations because it excludes items that may not be reflective of, or are unrelated to, QXOs core operating performance, and may assist investors with comparisons to prior periods and assessing trends in our underlying business. Other companies may calculate this non-GAAP financial measure differently, and therefore our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. This non-GAAP financial measure should only be used as a supplemental measure of our operating performance. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, net income (loss), and our other GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA Net income (loss) $ 27,969 $ (1,070) Add (deduct): Depreciation and amortization 1,122 1,001 Share-based compensation 34,513 41 Interest (income) expense (121,812) 56 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 22,843 (297) Transaction costs 12,765 2,986 Severance costs 2,768 Adjusted EBITDA $ (19,832) $ 2,717 The year-over-year decline for the year ended December 31, 2024 Adjusted EBITDA was due to higher employee-related costs, reflecting the introduction of a new senior management team to execute the Companys expansive growth plan. Liquidity and Capital Resources On June 6, 2024, we closed the Equity Investment under the Investment Agreement that we entered into on April 14, 2024 among the Company, JPE and certain minority investors. Pursuant to the Investment Agreement, we issued and sold an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares of Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share (the Convertible Preferred Stock), which were initially convertible into an aggregate of 219,010,074 shares of common stock at an initial conversion price of $4.566 per share, and we issued and sold warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 219,010,074 shares of common stock (the Warrants). Upon closing, the Equity Investment generated gross proceeds of $1.0 billion, before deducting agent fees and offering expenses. For more information on the Investment Agreement, refer to Note 3 - Equity of Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report. 22 Table of Contents On June 13, 2024, we entered into purchase agreements with certain institutional and accredited investors to issue and sell in a private placement an aggregate of 340,932,212 shares of our common stock at a price of $9.14 per share, and pre-funded warrants (the Pre-Funded Warrants) to purchase 42,000,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $9.13999 per Pre-Funded Warrant. Each Pre-Funded Warrant has an exercise price of $0.00001 per share, is exercisable immediately and until the Pre-Funded Warrant is exercised in full. The closing of the issuance and sale of these securities was consummated on July 19, 2024, and generated gross proceeds of approximately $3.5 billion before deducting agent fees and offering expenses. On July 22, 2024, we entered into additional purchase agreements with certain institutional and accredited investors to issue and sell in a private placement an aggregate of 67,833,699 shares of our common stock at a price of $9.14 per share. The closing of the issuance and sale of these securities was consummated on July 25, 2024, and generated gross proceeds of approximately $620 million, before deducting agent fees and offering expenses. Under the terms of the Investment Agreement, we declared a $17.4 million special cash dividend to its stockholders of record as of the day before the closing of the Equity Investment. The dividend was paid from proceeds received from the Equity Investment. Under the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock, dividends are paid quarterly when, as and if declared by the Board, at the rate per annum of 9% per share. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we paid $32.3 million of quarterly dividends to holders of Convertible Preferred Stock. Subsequent to the close of the year ended December 31, 2024, we paid an additional $22.5 million of quarterly dividends to holders of Convertible Preferred Stock. The Companys cash balance was $5.1 billion as of December 31, 2024 and consisted primarily of cash on deposit with banks and investments in money market funds. We continually evaluate our liquidity requirements in light of our operating needs, growth initiatives and capital resources. We believe that our existing liquidity and sources of capital are sufficient to support our operations over the next 12 months. Cash provided by operating activities Cash provided by operating activities increased by $84.3 million, compared with the prior year. The year-over-year increase is attributed to interest income earned in the period offset by higher personnel costs associated with the execution of the Companys strategy as contemplated in the Investment Agreement. Cash used in investing activities Cash used in investing activities decreased by $298,000, compared with the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year decrease relates to assets purchased from JCS Computer Resource Corporation (JCS) during 2023 for $278,500 that did not exist during 2024. Investment in capital expenditures is mainly associated with IT equipment to support the business. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities Cash provided by financing activities was $5.0 billion, compared with $2.1 million of cash used in financing activities in the prior year. The year-over-year increase is attributed to the Equity Investment of June 6, 2024 and the private placements in July 2024. The Company paid the common stock dividend, the preferred stock dividend, and paid its long-term debt obligations with proceeds from these investments. Critical Accounting Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which require our management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations would be affected. We base our estimates on our own historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable after taking account of our circumstances and expectations for the future based on available information. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: (i) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and (ii) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the 23 Table of Contents current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. There are items within our financial statements that require estimation but are not deemed critical, as defined above. For a detailed discussion of our significant accounting policies and related judgments, see Note 2 Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in