Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This annual report on Form 10-K and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. (the Company) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the this Annual Report on Form 10-K., relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview SilverSun Technologies, Inc. is involved in the acquisition and build-out of technology and software companies engaged in providing transformational business management applications and professional consulting services to small and medium size companies, primarily in the manufacturing, distribution and service industries. We are executing a business strategy centered on the design and development of our own proprietary business management solutions, which now includes our MAPADOC Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) solution and 20 other proprietary solutions and enhancements; as well as on the acquisition of application resellers and software publishers of unique and proprietary solutions in the extensive and expanding, but highly fragmented, business solutions marketplace. Our core strength is rooted in our ability to discover and identify the driving forces of change that are affecting or will affect businesses in a wide range of industries. We invest valuable time and resources to fully understand how technology is transforming the business management landscape and what current or emerging innovations are deserving of a clients attention. By leveraging this knowledge and foresight, our growing list of clients are empowered with the means to more effectively manage their businesses; to capitalize on real-time insight drawn from their data resources; and to materially profit from enhanced operational functionality, process flexibility and expedited process execution. A key tactical strategy for our Company is developing smart, proprietary business management applications that effectively and efficiently integrate with existing business management systems; and in publishing proprietary solutions for niche markets that address unique manufacturing and distribution challenges and needs. In this regard, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SWK Technologies, Inc. (SWK), we publish proprietary EDI software, branded as MAPADOC. MAPADOC is a fully integrated, easy-to use, feature-rich EDI solution for users of Sage Software, Inc.s (Sage) market leading Sage 100/500/ERP X3 software products. Providing seamless integration and dramatically decreasing data-entry time and associated costs, it is marketed and distributed worldwide by the Companys direct sales force, as well as through its platform partner, SPS Commerce, Inc. and a growing national network of independent software partners and resellers, to customers largely supplying big-box retailers, including Walmart, Sears, Target and Costco. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we have developed a proprietary series of cloud-based, SaaS business management solutions created specifically for the U.S. craft brewery and distribution industry. Currently, implementations of our proprietary SaaS solutions, marketed and branded as BeerRun, BrewPub, Brew X ERP (powered by Sage ERP X3) and the Distributor Relationship Management System, have been sold to 126 craft breweries throughout the United Stated and 10 internationally. These innovative solutions provide brew masters with a single, turnkey database batch/process solution capable of managing their manufacturing operations from forecasting and planning to recipe management to inventory control and traceability, among other critical business functions, including TTB reporting. We also provide managed IT services to our customers. As Microsoft Certified Systems Engineers and Microsoft Certified Professionals, our staff offers a host of mission critical services, including remote network monitoring, server implementation, support and assistance, operation and maintenance of large central systems, technical design of network infrastructure, technical troubleshooting for large scale problems, network and server security, and back-up, archiving and storage of data from servers. We compete with numerous large and small companies in this market sector, both nationally and locally. Distinguished as one of the largest Sage ERP X3 practices in North America, we resell enterprise resource planning software published by Sage, which addresses the financial accounting requirements of small- and medium-size businesses focused on manufacturing and distribution. We also offer services related to these sales, including installation, support and training. These product sales are primarily packaged software programs installed on a user workstation, on a local area network server, or in a hosted environment. The programs perform and support a wide variety of functions related to accounting, including financial reporting, accounts payable, accounts receivable and inventory management. We employ class instructors and host formal, topic-specific, training classes, both on-site at our clients facilities and at our corporate offices. Our instructors must pass annual subject matter examinations required by Sage to retain their product-based teaching certifications. We also provide end-user technical support services through our support/help desk, which is available during normal business hours, Monday through Friday. Our team of qualified product and technology consultants assist customers that contact us with questions about product features, functions, usability issues and configurations. The support/help desk offers services in a variety of ways, including prepaid services, time and materials billed as utilized and annual support contracts. Our customers can communicate with our support/help desk through email, telephone and fax channels. Led by specialized project managers, we provide professional services ranging from software customization to data migration to small- and medium-size business consulting. We also are resellers of the Warehouse Management System (WMS) software published by Accellos, Inc. (Accellos), which develops warehouse management software for middle market distributors. The primary purpose of a WMS is to control the movement and storage of materials within an operation and process the associated transactions. Directed picking, directed replenishment, and directed put-away are the key to WMS. The detailed setup and processing within a WMS can vary significantly from one software vendor to another. However, the basic WMS will use a combination of item, location, quantity, unit of measure and order information to determine where to stock, where to pick, and in what sequence to perform these operations. The Accellos WMS software improves accuracy and efficiency, streamlines materials handling, meets retail compliance requirements, and refines inventory control. Accellos also works as part of a complete operational solution by integrating seamlessly with RF hardware, accounting software, shipping systems and warehouse automation equipment. We market the Accellos solution to our existing and new medium-sized business clients. Investing in the acquisition of other companies and proprietary business management solutions has been an important growth strategy for our Company, allowing us to rapidly offer new products and services, expand into new geographic markets and create new and exciting profit centers. To date, we have completed a series of strategic ventures that have served to fundamentally strengthen our Companys operating platform and materially expand our footprint to nearly every U.S. state. More specifically, over the past seven years, we have outright acquired, acquired select assets of or entered into revenue sharing agreements with Business Tech Solutions Group, Inc.; Wolen Katz Associates; AMP-BEST Consulting, Inc.; IncorTech; Micro-Point, Inc.; HighTower, Inc.; Point Solutions, LLC; SGEN, LLC., and ESC, Inc. Additionally, it is our intention to continue to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. 21 Table of Contents During 2014 the Company continued to expand its customer base and growth trend which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. Some of the key highlights for 2014 are as follows: 1) Revenues increased 23.4% from the prior year. 2) Income from operations increased to $470,651 as compared to $258,604 in the prior year. 3) Net income was $ 192,901 as compared to $322,548 in the prior year. 4) As a result of an increase in sales and marketing expense, we continue to lay the foundation for continued growth. 5) Sales of the Companys proprietary, cloud-based business management solutions created specifically for the U.S. craft brewery and distribution industry has continued to increase since its introduction to market in early 2012; and the number of new sales prospects continues to climb. 6) Continued to book major orders for Sage ERP X3. Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased $4,063,723 (23.4%) to $21,463,774 as compared to $17,400,051 for the year ended December 31, 2013. Software sales increased by $250,578 to $3,669,732 in 2014 from $3,419,154 in 2013 for an overall increase of 7.3%. This increase was primarily due to an increase in sales of our accounting software products, such as Sage ERP X3, cloud solutions Netsuite and Acumatica, and Accellos Warehouse Management. Service revenue increased by $3,813,145 to $17,794,042 in 2014 from $13,980,897 in 2013 for an overall increase of 27.3%. The overall increases are primarily due to the continued marketing efforts and very competitive pricing, and the Companys strategy to increase its business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, partnerships or investments. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased $1,822,923 (27%) to $8,573,064 as compared to $6,750,141 for the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase in overall gross profit for this period is attributed to the increase in revenues from existing business, including the revenues from the ESC acquisition. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the overall gross profit percentage was 39.9% as compared to 38.8 % for the year ended December 31, 2013. The gross profit attributed to software sales increased $86,419 to $1,798,431 for 2014 from $1,712,012 in 2013 which resulted in a decrease in the gross profit percentage from 52% to 46%. The mix of products being sold by the Company changes from time to time and sometimes causes the overall gross margin percentage to vary. The gross profit attributed to services increased $1,736,504 from 2013 to 2014 primarily due to the implementations of larger scale accounting systems. The gross profit percentage attributed to services also increased to 38% in 2014 from 36% in 2013. In addition, the Company will often enter into agreements with former resellers to take over their customers in exchange for being paid a commission for a period of time. The Company currently has 12 of these arrangements in place, which had the result of reducing the Companys reported gross profit percentage by less than 0.85% for 2014. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $82,160 (2.5%) to $3,326,497 for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $3,244,337 for the year ended December 31, 2013 due to increased sales personnel and travel expenses as a result of the increase in sales activity to provide for future growth. General and administrative expenses increased $1,353,468 (46.2%) to $4,281,090 for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to $2,927,622 for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily as a result of increases in payroll and related expenses associated with the addition of management personnel and incremental costs associated with the acquisition of ESC. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recognized $130,253 of share-based compensation expense as a result of the granting of stock options to some of its non-executive employees as compared to $17,616 for 2013. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $62,611 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $364,573 as compared to $301,962 for the year ended December 31, 2013. This increase is primarily attributed to the increase in amortization associated with the intangible assets acquired the ESC acquisition in 2014. Income (Loss) from Operations For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company had income from operations of $470,651 as compared to income from operations of $258,604 for the year ended December 31, 2013. Other Income (Expense) For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company had other expense of $59,750 as compared to $56,056 for the year ended December 31, 2013. 22 Table of Contents Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were calculated based on the estimated tax rate. The Federal effective rate is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to Incentive Stock Options (ISO) expense which is generally never tax deductible for the Company. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Companys Federal and State provision requirements were offset by the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance no longer deemed necessary, and recorded a net tax benefit of $120,000, which represents a reduction in its valuation allowance on tax attributes that are expected to be utilized based on managements assessment and evaluation of historical and projected income. Net Income (Loss) For year ended December 31, 2014, the Company had net income of $192,901 as compared to a net income of $322,548 for the year ended December 31, 2013 for the reasons mentioned above. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently seeking additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to developing new products, obtaining new customers and increasing sales to existing customers, management plans to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting market with solid revenue streams and established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. In October 2011, the Company obtained a line of credit from a bank. The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000. On August 1, 2013, the Company negotiated a new line of credit and term loan from the bank. The term of the line is for two years and expires on July 31, 2015. The agreement included a borrowing base calculation tied to accounts receivable with a maximum availability of $750,000 at prime plus 1.75% interest (currently 5%). The line is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Meller. The credit facility requires the Company to pay a monitoring fee of $1,000 monthly. At December 31, 2014, the Company was in compliance with the required financial covenants, the fixed charge ratio and debt to net worth. As of December 31, 2014, the availability under this line was $750,000. Under the term loan, the Company borrowed $350,000 in July 2013 from a bank. The term of the loan is for two years and expires on July 31, 2015. Monthly payments are at $15,776 including interest at 8%. The term loan is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and is guaranteed by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Meller. At December 31, 2014 the outstanding balance was $106,559. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company had a net increase in cash of $545,445. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by operating activities The Company generated $992,949 in cash from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to generating $740,996 of cash for operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013. This increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to an increase in deferred revenues and an increase in accounts receivable offset partially by an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used in investing activities Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 used cash of $152,991 as compared to using $30,364 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2013. This decrease in cash is attributed to higher purchases of property and equipment and capitalization of internally developed software costs. 23 Table of Contents Cash provided by financing activities Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 used cash of $294,513 as compared to an increase of $47,777 of cash for the year ended December 31, 2013. This decrease in cash provided from financing activities is mostly attributed to the repayments of the bank term loan, repayment of the ESC acquisition term loan, capital lease payments and repayment of a related party note. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, and the availability of its credit line, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months. There was no significant impact on the Companys operations as a result of inflation for the year ended December 31, 2014. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory obsolescence, intangible assets, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified below the accounting policies, revenue recognition and software costs, related to what we believe are most critical to our business operations and are discussed throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition or Plan of Operation where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when products are shipped, or services are rendered, evidence of a contract exists, the price is fixed or reasonably determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Product Revenue Software product revenue is recognized when the product is shipped to the customer. The Company treats the software component and the professional services consulting component as two separate arrangements that represent separate units of accounting. The arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based upon that units proportion of the fair value. In a situation where both components are present, software sales revenue is recognized when collectability is reasonably assured and the product is delivered and has stand-alone value based upon vendor specific objective evidence. Service Revenue Service revenue is comprised of primarily professional service consulting revenue, maintenance revenue and other ancillary services provided as described below. Professional service revenue is recognized as service is incurred. With respect to maintenance services, upon the completion of one year from the date of sale, the Company offers customers an optional annual software maintenance and support agreement for subsequent one-year periods. Maintenance and support agreements are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the respective terms of the agreements, which typically range from three months to one year and are included in service revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are classified as revenue, and the shipping and handling costs incurred are included in cost of sales. Accounts Receivable The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based on customer payment and current credit worthiness, as determined by review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors credits and payments from its customers and maintains provision for estimated credit losses based on its historical experience and any specific customer issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectation and the provision established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to receive positive results. 24 Table of Contents Unbilled Services The Company recognizes revenue on its professional services as those services are performed or certain obligations are met. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but tested for impairment annually or whenever indicators of impairment exist. These indicators may include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business or other factors. Intangible Assets The values assigned to intangible assets were based on an independent valuation. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over the useful lives based on the estimate of the use of economic benefit of the asset using the straight-line amortization method. The Company assesses potential impairment of its intangible assets when there is evidence that recent events or changes in circumstances have made recovery of an assets carrying value unlikely. Factors the Company considers important, which may cause impairment include, among others, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends, and significant underperformance relative to historical or projected operating results. Income taxes Deferred income taxes reflects the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as current or non-current based on the classification of the related assets or liabilities for financial reporting, or according to the expected reversal dates of the specific temporary differences, if not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During fiscal 2014, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.