Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 Part I and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 Part I. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, or other risks that we are not aware of become material, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this section to historical results, risks and impacts to the business are with respect to Beacon and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Beacon Acquisition. Risks Related to Product Supply and Vendor Relations An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers. We distribute roofing materials and other complementary building products, such as siding and waterproofing, that are manufactured by a number of major suppliers. Disruptions in our sources of supply may occur as a result of various reasons, including unanticipated demand, production or delivery difficulties, the loss of key supplier arrangements, or broad disruptive events (whether globally, in the U.S., or abroad), such as wars, terrorist actions, cybersecurity attacks or other technological disruptions with respect to manufacturers or the material vendors we rely on, trade disputes, changes in regulation, macroeconomic events, government shutdowns, natural disasters, including those that may be linked to climate change, and/or a pandemic. For example, in 2021 and 2022 the exterior products industry experienced constrained supply chain dynamics caused in large part from global disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, we experienced, at times, a limited ability to purchase enough product to meet consumer demand, which resulted in lost revenues. Although we do not believe these lost revenues were material, it is possible that future product shortages could be so severe as to result in material reductions in revenues and margins. When shortages occur, building material suppliers often allocate products among distributors, and sourcing materials from a limited number of suppliers can increase our risk. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we had three suppliers that each contributed 10% or more of total purchases and, in total, represented nearly 35% of total purchases. Although we believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong and that we would have access to similar products from competing suppliers should products be unavailable from current sources, any supply shortage, particularly of the most commonly sold items, could result in a loss of revenues and reduced margins and damage our reputation and relationships with customers. A change in supplier pricing and demand could adversely affect our income and gross margins. Many of the products that we distribute are subject to price changes based upon manufacturers raw material costs, energy costs, labor costs, and tariffs as well as other manufacturer pricing decisions. For example, as a distributor of residential roofing supplies, our business is sensitive to asphalt prices, which are highly volatile and often linked to oil prices, as oil is a significant input in asphalt production. Shingle prices have been volatile in recent years, partly due to volatility in asphalt prices. Other products we distribute, such as plywood and oriented strand board (OSB), experienced price volatility largely due to supply and demand imbalances in recent years. In addition to the rising costs of commodities and raw materials, supplier pricing and demand can also be affected by inflationary pressures and other conditions that make it more costly for our suppliers to distribute their products to us, such as fuel shortages, fuel cost increases, or labor shortages. We may also experience price volatility related to the implementation of tariffs on imported steel or other products. For example, certain of our vendors use steel as a product input, and they may increase prices as a result of tariffs incurred or the overall impact of tariffs on domestic steel prices. It remains unclear what future actions may be taken by the U.S. with respect to trade policies or the imposition of tariffs on imported products, and the impact of those actions on the cost of products we distribute. Historically, we have generally been able to pass increases in prices on to our customers. Although we often are able to pass on manufacturers price increases, our ability to pass on increases in costs and our ability to do so in a timely fashion depends on market conditions. For example, we experienced resource inflation in 2021 and 2022, as a strong recovery in demand following the COVID-19 pandemic created tightness in the market for certain raw materials. This caused our suppliers and us to increase product prices to address higher input costs. By contrast, the inability to pass along cost increases or a delay in doing so could result in lower operating margins. In addition, higher prices could impact demand for these products, resulting in lower sales volumes. 24 A change in vendor rebates could adversely affect our income and gross margins. The terms on which we purchase products from many of our vendors entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. Vendors may adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs for a variety of reasons, including if market conditions change. Although these changes would not affect the net recorded costs of product already purchased, it may lower our gross margins on products we sell and therefore the income we realize on such sales in future periods. Risks Related to Acquisitions and our Growth Strategy We may not be able to identify potential acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, which could slow our inorganic growth rate. Our growth strategy includes acquiring other distributors of roofing materials and complementary building products, such as siding and waterproofing. We continually seek additional acquisition candidates in selected markets, which include engaging in exploratory discussions with potential acquisition candidates, as well as engaging in competitive bidding processes for potential acquisition candidates. We are unable to predict whether or when we will be able to identify any suitable acquisition candidates, or, if we do, the likelihood that any such potential acquisition will be completed. If we cannot complete acquisitions that we identify on acceptable terms, our inorganic growth rate may decline. In addition, our current and potential competitors have made and may continue to make acquisitions that include acquisition candidates in which we were, or would have been, interested in pursuing and such competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. In the event that our inorganic growth does not keep pace with any significant consolidation among distributors of roofing materials and complementary building products, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We may not be able to effectively integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: unforeseen difficulties or disruptions in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting, and employees; diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; potential loss of key employees; unforeseen cybersecurity risks related to the businesses acquired or to the manufacturers and vendors the acquired businesses rely on; unforeseen liabilities and expenses associated with businesses acquired; and inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate, execute, and integrate acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. A measure of our success is dependent on maintaining our safety record, and an injury to, or death of, any of our employees, customers, or members of the general public related to our business activities could result in material liabilities and reputational injury. Our business activities include an inherent risk of catastrophic safety incidents that could result in injuries and deaths. The activities we conduct at our customers designated delivery locations which include construction and residential job sites present a risk of injury or death to our employees, customers, or visitors, notwithstanding our compliance with safety regulations. We may be unable to avoid material liabilities for an injury or death, and our workers compensation and other insurance policies may not be adequate or may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could result in material liabilities to us. Further, as a wholesale distributor of roofing materials and other complementary building products, we lease and operate a fleet of commercial motor vehicles, including semi-tractor trailer trucks, flatbed trucks, and forklifts. Accordingly, a safety incident involving our commercial fleet could result in material economic damages, as well as injuries and/or death, for our employees and any other parties involved. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover our historic claims amounts, participants in commercial distribution and transportation activities (i.e., trucking and transportation) have experienced large verdicts, including some instances in which juries have awarded significant amounts. 25 In addition, our brands reputation is an important asset to our business; as a result, anything that damages our brands reputation could materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, negative media reports, whether or not accurate, can materially and adversely affect our reputation. Moreover, social media has dramatically increased the rate at which negative publicity can be disseminated before there is any meaningful opportunity to respond to or address an issue to protect our reputation. Risks Related to Cyclicality, Seasonality, and Weather Cyclicality in our business and general economic conditions could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability. A portion of the products we sell are for residential and non-residential construction. The strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including credit and capital availability, interest rates, foreclosure rates, housing inventory levels and occupancy, changes in the tax laws, employment levels, consumer confidence, and the health of the U.S. economy and mortgage markets. Economic downturns in the regions and markets we serve could result in lower net sales and, since many of our expenses are fixed, lower profitability. Unfavorable changes in demographics, credit markets, consumer confidence, housing affordability, or housing inventory levels and occupancy, or a weakening of the U.S. economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate, could adversely affect consumer spending, resulting in decreased demand for our products, and adversely affecting our business. In addition, instability in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism or civil or political unrest, may result in a decrease in housing starts or business investment, which would adversely affect our business. Seasonality, weather-related conditions, and natural disasters may have a significant impact on our financial results. The demand for building materials is heavily correlated to both seasonal changes and unpredictable weather patterns. Seasonal demand fluctuations are expected, such as in quarters ending March 31, when winter construction cycles and cold weather patterns typically have an adverse impact on new construction and re-roofing activity. The timing of weather patterns (unseasonable temperatures) and severe weather events (hurricanes, hailstorms, and protracted rain) may impact our financial results within a given period either positively or negatively, making it difficult to accurately forecast our results of operations. We expect that these seasonal and weather-related variations will continue in the future. Certain extreme weather events and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, tropical storms, floods, droughts, and wildfires, may adversely impact us in several ways, including interfering with our ability to deliver our products, impeding our receipt of product from our vendors, disrupting branch staffing, reducing demand for our products, impairing our customers ability to pay accounts receivable, and damaging our facilities and inventory, although some of these adverse impacts may be offset by increased demand relating to damage from these weather events and natural disasters. Some of the areas in which we operate, including California, Florida, Louisiana, North Carolina, Texas and other coastal areas, have experienced recent natural disasters and have increased risks of adverse weather or natural disasters. The physical effects of climate change may increase the frequency or severity of natural disasters and other extreme weather events in the future, which could increase our exposure to these risks. Risks Related to Information Technology If we encounter interruptions in the proper functioning of our information technology systems, including from cybersecurity threats, we could experience material problems with our operations, including inventory, collections, customer service, cost control, and business plan execution that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, including unanticipated increases in costs or decreases in net sales. Our information technology systems (IT systems or systems), which include information technology networks, hardware, applications, and the data related thereto, are integral to the operation of our business. We use our IT systems to, among other things, provide complete integration of purchasing, receiving, order processing, shipping, inventory management, delivery routing, sales analysis, cash management, and accounting, as well as to process, transmit, protect, store, and delete sensitive and confidential electronic data, including, but not limited to, employee, supplier, and customer data (Data). Our IT systems include third-party applications and proprietary applications developed and maintained by us. We rely heavily on information technology both in serving our customers and in our enterprise infrastructure to achieve our objectives. In certain instances, we also rely on the systems of third parties to assist with conducting our business, which includes, among other things, marketing and distributing products, developing new products and services, operating our website, hosting and managing our services, securely storing Data, processing transactions, purchasing and receiving, billing and accounts receivable management, responding to customer inquiries, managing inventory and our supply chain, and managing our human resources processes and services. As a result, the secure and reliable operation of our systems (including its function of securing Data), and those of third parties upon whom we depend, are critical to the successful operation of our business. Any failure or interruption of our IT systems, including the systems of third parties upon whom we depend, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results, and reputation. 26 Although our IT systems and Data are protected through security measures and business continuity plans, our systems and those of third parties upon whom we depend may be vulnerable to: natural disasters; power outages; telecommunication or utility failures; terrorist acts; breaches due to employee error or malfeasance or other insider threats; disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware; terminations of business relationships by us or third-party service providers; and disinformation campaigns, damage or intrusion from a variety of deliberate cyber-attacks carried out by insiders or third parties, which are becoming more sophisticated and include computer viruses, worms, gaining unauthorized access to systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information either directly or through our vendors and customers, denial of service attacks, ransomware, supply chain attacks, data corruption, malicious distribution of inaccurate information or other malicious software programs that may impact such systems and cause operational disruption. For these IT systems and related business processes to operate effectively, we or our service providers must continually maintain and update them. Delays in the maintenance, updates, upgrading, or patching of these systems and related business processes could impair their effectiveness or expose us to security risks. In addition, if IT systems are damaged, restoration or recovery of those systems may not be achievable in a timely manner. Even with our policies, procedures, and programs designed to ensure the integrity of our IT systems and the security of Data, we may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to which we are exposed. In some instances, we may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. Additionally, existing and future artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities present a growing threat by aiding experienced and inexperienced threat actors in identifying vulnerabilities and crafting increasingly sophisticated and targeted cybersecurity attacks. Vulnerabilities may also be introduced from the use of AI by us, our customers or suppliers. Use of AI by us or such third parties, whether authorized or unauthorized, increases the risk that our proprietary information or intellectual property will be unintentionally disclosed, and may introduce new risks such as inaccurate output. Despite the precautions we take to mitigate the risks of such events, any attack on our IT systems or breach of our Data, or the IT systems and Data of third parties upon whom we depend, could result in, but are not limited to, the following: business disruption, misstated or misappropriated financial data, product shortages and/or an increase in accounts receivable aging, an adverse impact on our ability to attract and serve customers, delays in the execution of our business plan, theft of our intellectual property or other non-public confidential information and Data, including that of our customers, suppliers, and employees, liability for stolen assets or information, and higher operating costs including increased cybersecurity protection costs. Such events could harm our reputation and have an adverse impact on our financial results, including the impact of related legal, regulatory, and remediation costs. In addition, if any information about our customers, including payment information, were the subject of a successful cybersecurity attack against us, we could be subject to litigation or other claims by the affected customers. Further, regulatory authorities have increased their focus on how companies collect, process, use, store, share, and transmit personal data. Privacy security laws and regulations, including federal and state laws in the U.S. and federal and provincial laws in Canada, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in litigation, significant sanctions, monetary costs, or other harm to us. If we decide to switch providers, develop our own IT systems to replace providers, or implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may be unsuccessful in this development, or we may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our sales levels may be negatively impacted during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipate. Risks Related to Human Capital Loss of key talent or our inability to attract and retain new qualified talent could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key management personnel, including branch managers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or recruit and attract additional qualified management. The loss of any of our current executive officers or other key management employees, or a delay in recruiting or our inability to recruit and retain qualified employees could adversely affect our ability to operate and make it difficult to execute our strategies to drive growth, enhance customer service, and expand our footprint in key markets. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition for employees, shortages of qualified workers, or higher employee turnover, all of which could have adverse effects on levels of customer service or result in increased employee compensation or benefit costs. Our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force or the labor force of our suppliers or customers. Any labor disputes, work stoppages, or unionization efforts could result in significant increases in our cost of labor. While we believe that our relations with employees generally and the labor unions that represent our employees (which as of December 31, 2024 was approximately 4.4% of our workforce) are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages recently (and there are no material outstanding labor disputes currently), in the future we could experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, other groups representing employees, or with our employees in general. 27 Installation, replacement and repair of roofing is a labor-intensive business. Demand for our products may be impacted by our customers ability to attract, train, and retain workers. Changes in immigration laws and regulations, trends in labor migration, and increases in our customers personnel costs or the inability of our customers to hire sufficient personnel, which may be amplified in tight labor market conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Regulatory Risk Our activities and operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations and we could become subject to newly enacted laws and regulations, compliance with which could increase our general and administrative costs. If we violate such laws or regulations, we could face penalties and fines or be required to curtail operations. We are subject to various federal, state, provincial, local and other laws and regulations, including, among other things, environmental, climate, transportation, health and safety laws and regulations, tax laws and regulations, and potential tariffs on imported products. Some of the regulations to which we are subject include: transportation regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation; work safety regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; employment regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the U.S. Department of Labor; environmental regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency; and similar regulations promulgated by state, provincial, and local regulators. Concern over climate change has led to, and may in the future lead to, new or increased legal and regulatory requirements designed to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change, which could increase our operating or capital expenses and compliance burdens. Applicable laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain permits and approvals and implement programs and procedures to control risks associated with our operations. Compliance in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business could expose us to investigation, enforcement actions, litigation, and substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. These laws, regulations, or rules and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We cannot predict the nature and timing of future developments in law and regulations and whether we will be successful in meeting future demands of regulatory bodies in a manner which will not materially adversely affect us. Risks Related to the Acquisition of Beacon We may be unable to integrate Beacon successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the Beacon Acquisition. The successful integration of Beacon and operations into those of our own and our ability to realize the expected benefits of the transaction are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. We will also be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating business practices, cultures and operations of each business. The risks and uncertainties relating to integrating the two businesses include, among other things: the challenge of integrating complex organizations, systems, operating procedures, compliance programs, technology, networks and other assets of Beacon; the difficulties harmonizing differences in the business cultures of QXO and Beacon; the inability to successfully integrate our respective businesses in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from the Beacon Acquisition; the inability to minimize the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns during the process of integrating Beacon into our businesses; the inability to resolve potential conflicts that may arise relating to customer, supplier and other important relationships of our business and Beacon; difficulties in retaining key management and other key employees; and the challenge of managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company and coordinating geographically separate organizations. 28 As a result of the Beacon Acquisition, we expect to realize certain synergies and cost savings. Any synergies and cost savings that we realize may differ materially from our estimates and involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such estimates. This information is speculative in nature, and some or all of the assumptions underlying the estimated synergies and cost savings may not materialize or may vary from actual results. Our ability to realize these anticipated synergies and savings is subject to significant uncertainties and you should not place undue reliance on the adjustments in evaluating our anticipated results. We have incurred substantial expenses to consummate the Beacon Acquisition but may not realize the anticipated benefits. In addition, even if we are able to integrate Beacon successfully, the anticipated benefits of the Beacon Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Given the size and significance of the Beacon Acquisition, we may encounter difficulties in the integration of the operations of Beacon and may fail to realize the full benefits and synergies of the Beacon Acquisition, which could adversely impact our business, results of operation and financial condition. Beacon may have liabilities that are not known to us. Beacon may have liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing our due diligence investigations of Beacon. We cannot assure you that the indemnification available to us under the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 20, 2025 (the Merger Agreement) in respect of the Beacon Acquisition will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business of Beacon or property that we assumed upon consummation of the Beacon Acquisition. We may learn additional information about Beacon that materially adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and liabilities related to compliance with applicable laws. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisition accounting adjustments could adversely affect our financial results. We will account for the completion of the Beacon Acquisition using the acquisition method of accounting. We will allocate the total estimated purchase price to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the Beacon Acquisition record the excess, if any, of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Differences between preliminary estimates and the final acquisition accounting may occur, and these differences could have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements and the combined companys future results of operations and financial position. We will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. Our success following the Beacon Acquisition will depend in part upon the ability to maintain our business relationships. Uncertainty about the effect of the Beacon Acquisition on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies may have a material adverse effect on us. Customers, suppliers and others who deal with us may delay or defer business decisions, decide to terminate, modify or renegotiate their relationships or take other actions as a result of the Beacon Acquisition that could negatively affect the revenues, earnings and cash flows of our company. If we are unable to maintain these business and operational relationships, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially affected. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the Beacon Acquisition. We incurred, through our wholly owned subsidiary QXO Building Products, Inc. (formerly known as Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.) and its subsidiaries (the Credit Parties), substantial indebtedness in connection with the Beacon Acquisition. As of the closing of the Beacon Acquisition, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $4.9 billion face value of outstanding indebtedness (excluding capital leases and finance lease obligations), and revolving commitments under the ABL Facility of $2.0 billion, of which $400.0 million were drawn at the closing of the Beacon Acquisition, and we had approximately $1.6 billion available for additional borrowing under our ABL Facility (subject to a borrowing base and excluding approximately $17.8 million in letters of credit outstanding thereunder). Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing other indebtedness; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends, if and when declared by our board of directors; 29 increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; making us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, engaging in development activities or exploiting business opportunities; causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our industry; impacting our effective tax rate; and increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, the credit agreements governing the Credit Facilities and the Indenture contain restrictive covenants that limit the ability of the Credit Parties to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy the obligations of the Credit Parties under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance the debt obligations of the Credit Parties depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit the Credit Parties to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund the debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet the scheduled debt service obligations. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy the debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our Common Stock. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The credit agreements that govern the Credit Facilities and the Indenture contain, and any other existing or future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, through the Credit Parties, including restrictions on the ability of the Credit Parties to, among other things: incur additional debt, guarantee indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, our capital stock or make other restricted payments; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans or certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens on certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. 30 A failure to comply with the covenants under the Credit Facilities, the Indenture or any of our other existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of an event of default under the Credit Facilities, the lenders: will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or could effectively prevent us from making debt service payments (due to a cash sweep feature). Such actions by the lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of the Notes, the lenders under the Credit Facilities and any of our other existing or future secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the Notes, the Credit Facilities or such other indebtedness. We pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the Notes and the Credit Facilities. Item2.UnregisteredSalesofEquitySecuritiesandUseofProceeds Not applicable. Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities None. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. Item 5.OtherInformation None. 31 Item 6.Exhibits 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 20, 2025, by and among QXO, Inc., Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. and Queen MergerCo, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 20, 2025).+ 10.1 Form of Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2025, by and between QXO, Inc. and the Investors signatory thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 17, 2025). 31.1 Certification by the Principal Executive Officer of Registrant pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a)).* 31.2 Certification by the Principal Financial Officer of Registrant pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a)).* 32.1 Certification by the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.** 32.2 Certification by the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.** 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document* 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema* 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase* 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase* 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase* 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase* 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101)* *Filedherewith. **Furnished herewith. + Schedules and/or exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(a)(5) of Regulation S-K. QXO agrees to furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedules and/or exhibits to the SEC on a confidential basis upon request. 32 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities ExchangeAct of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report on Form 10-Q to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. QXO,INC. Dated:May 8, 2025 By: /s/ Brad Jacobs Brad Jacobs ChiefExecutiveOfficer (Principal Executive Officer) Dated:May 8, 2025 By: /s/ Ihsan Essaid Ihsan Essaid Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 33 EX-31.1 2 qxo10-q_q12025ex311.htm EX-31.1 Document Exhibit 31.1 CERTIFICATION OFPRINCIPALEXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, ASADOPTEDPURSUANTTOSECTION302OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 I,Brad Jacobs,certifythat: 1.I have reviewed this Form 10-Q of QXO, Inc.; 2.Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3.Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4.Along with the Principal Financial Officer, I am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure