Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by SilverSun Technologies, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, SWK Technologies, Inc., Secure Cloud Services, Inc., and Critical Cyber Defense Corp. (collectively the Company, we, our, and us) from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview The Company is engaged in providing transformational business management applications and technologies and professional consulting services to small and medium size companies, primarily in the manufacturing, distribution, and service industries. We are executing a multi-pronged business strategy centered on recurring revenue, customer retention and on rapidly increasing the size of our installed customer base. The growth of our customer base is accomplished via our traditional sales and marketing programs and acquisitions. After a customer is secured, our strategy is to up-sell and cross-sell, providing the customer with advanced technologies and third-party add-ons that help them digitally transform their business. These add-on products could include application hosting, cybersecurity, warehouse management, human capital management, payment automation, sales tax compliance or any number of other products or services that we represent. Many of these incremental products and services are billed on a subscription basis, often paying monthly for the service, which increases our monthly recurring revenue (MRR). This strategy increases the average revenue per customer, which facilitates our continued growth, and reduces our cost of customer acquisition, which enhances our profitability profile. Our core strength is rooted in our ability to discover and identify the driving forces of change that are affecting or will affect businesses in a wide range of industries. We invest valuable time and resources to fully understand how technology is transforming the business management landscape and what current or emerging innovations are deserving of a clients attention. By leveraging this knowledge and foresight, our growing list of clients are empowered with the means to more effectively manage their businesses; to capitalize on real-time insight drawn from their data resources; and to materially profit from enhanced operational functionality, process flexibility and expedited process execution. 25 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). We are a business application, technology and consulting company providing strategies and solutions to meet our clients information, technology and business management needs. Our services and technologies enable customers to manage, protect and monetize their enterprise assets whether on-premise or in the cloud. As a value-added reseller of business application software, we offer solutions for accounting and business management, financial reporting, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Human Capital Management (HCM), Warehouse Management Systems (WMS), Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and Business Intelligence (BI). Additionally, we have our own development staff building software solutions for various ERP enhancements. Our value-added services focus on consulting and professional services, specialized programming, training, and technical support. We have a dedicated Information Technology (IT) network services practice that provides managed services, Infrastructure-as-a-Service, cybersecurity, application hosting, disaster recovery, business continuity, cloud and other services. Our customers are nationwide, with concentrations in the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area, Arizona, Connecticut, Southern California, North Carolina, Washington, Oregon and Illinois. Our core business is divided into the following practice areas: Enterprise Resource Planning Software Substantially all our initial sales of ERP financial accounting solutions consist of pre-packaged software and associated services to customers in the United States. The Company resells ERP software published by Sage Software, including Sage Intacct, Acumatica and other providers for the financial accounting requirements of small- and medium-sized businesses focused on manufacturing, distribution, and professional services, and the delivery of related services from the sales of these products, including installation, implementation, support and training. The programs perform and support a wide variety of functions related to accounting, including financial reporting, accounts payable and accounts receivable, and inventory management. We provide end-user technical support services through our support/help desk. Our product and technology consultants assist customers calling with questions about product features, functions, usability issues, and configurations. The support/help desk offers services in a variety of ways, including prepaid services, time and materials billed as utilized and annual support contracts. Customers can communicate with the support/help desk through e-mail, telephone, and fax channels. Standard support/help desk services are offered during normal business hours five (5) days per week. Value-Added Services for ERP We go beyond simply reselling software packages; we have a consulting and professional services organization that manages the process as we move from the sales stage into implementation, go live, and production. We work inside our customers organizations to ensure all software and IT solutions are enhancing their business needs. A significant portion of our services revenue comes from continuing to work with existing customers as their business needs change, upgrading from one version of software to another, or providing additional software solutions to help them manage their business and grow their revenue. The support/help desk offers services in a variety of ways, including prepaid services, time and materials billed as utilized and annual support contracts. Customers can communicate with the support/help desk through e-mail, telephone, and fax channels. Standard support/help desk services are offered during normal business hours five (5) days per week. IT Managed Network Services and Business Consulting We provide comprehensive IT managed services, Infrastructure-as-a-Service, cybersecurity, business continuity, disaster recovery, data back-up, network maintenance and service upgrades designed to eliminate the IT concerns of our customers. We are a Microsoft Solutions Provider. Our staff includes engineers who maintain certifications from Microsoft and Sage Software. They are Microsoft Certified Systems Engineers and Microsoft Certified Professionals, and they provide a host of services for our clients, including remote network monitoring, server implementation, support and assistance, operation and maintenance of large central systems, technical design of network infrastructure, technical troubleshooting for large scale problems, network and server security, and backup, archiving, and storage of data from servers. There are numerous competitors, both larger and smaller, nationally and locally, with whom we compete in this market. Cybersecurity We provide enterprise level security services to the mid-market. Our cybersecurity-as-a-service offering includes a security operations center, incident response, cybersecurity assessments, and hacking simulations. The service is particularly well-suited for customers in compliance-driven and regulated industries, including financial services, pension administration, insurance, and the land and title sector. Application Hosting Application hosting is a type of SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) hosting solution that allows applications to be available from a remote cloud infrastructure and to be accessed by users through the internet. 26 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Investing in the acquisition of other companies and proprietary business management solutions has been an important growth strategy for our Company, allowing us to rapidly expand into new geographic markets and create new and exciting profit centers. To date, we have completed a series of strategic ventures that have served to fundamentally strengthen our Companys operating platform and materially expand our footprint to nearly every U.S. state. More specifically, over the past fifteen years, we have outright acquired select assets of or entered into revenue sharing agreements with Business Tech Solutions Group, Inc.; Wolen Katz Associates; AMP-BEST Consulting, Inc.; IncorTech; Micro-Point, Inc.; HighTower, Inc.; Point Solutions, LLC; SGEN, LLC., ESC, Inc., 2000 SOFT, Inc., Productive Tech Inc., The Macabe Associates, Oates & Co; Info Sys Management, Inc., Nellnube, Inc., Partners in Technology Inc., Prairie Technology Solutions Group, Inc., Computer Management Services, LLC, Business Software Solutions, PeopleSense, Inc., Dynamic Tech Services, Inc., NEO3, LLC, and more recently JCS Computer Resource Corporation. Additionally, it is our intention to continue to increase our business by seeking additional opportunities through potential acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments. Such acquisitions, revenue sharing arrangements, partnerships or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. During the first three months of 2024, the Company continued to expand its customer base and growth trend which we believe will provide a basis for future growth. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Our strategy is to grow our business through organic growth of our software applications, technology solutions and managed services, as well as expansion through acquisitions. We have established a national presence via our internal marketing, sales programs, and acquisitions, and now have ERP customers throughout most of the United States. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we continue to invest resources in our people, product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. During the three months ended March 31, 2024 the Company continued to expand its customer base, which we believe provides a basis for future growth. Revenues increased 10% to $14.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $13.1 million for the corresponding period in 2023. Our Acumatica and Sage product revenue continues to grow, and we are excited about the opportunity for growth with our Sage Intacct product. As previously disclosed on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 4, 2023, on December 3, 2023, the Company entered into an Investment Agreement (the Original Investment Agreement), with JPE, a Delaware limited liability company, and the other investors party thereto (collectively with JPE, the Investors), providing for, among other things, an aggregate investment by the Investors of $1,000,000,000 in cash in the Company (collectively, the Equity Investment) and a spin-off of the Companys existing business to its legacy stockholders (the Spin-Off). On April 14, 2024, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Investment Agreement (the A&R Investment Agreement) with JPE (on behalf of itself and on behalf of each of the other Investors) amending and restating the Original Investment Agreement. Pursuant to the A&R Investment Agreement, among other amendments to the Original Investment Agreement, the Spin-Off will not occur, and the Companys existing business will continue to be owned by the Company. The Companys stockholders as of the date that is one day prior to the closing of the Equity Investment will be entitled to receive an aggregate cash dividend of $17,400,000 (amended from the aggregate cash dividend of $2,500,000 contemplated by the Original Investment Agreement), to be paid from proceeds received by the Company from the Equity Investment, and SilverSuns existing operations will be retained. The other material terms of the other transactions contemplated by the Original Investment Agreement, including the Equity Investment, are not affected by the amendments contained in the A&R Investment Agreement. The transactions contemplated by the A&R Investment Agreement, which have been approved by the Companys board of directors, are subject to approval by the Companys stockholders and other customary closing conditions. As previously disclosed, prior to the closing of the Equity Investment, the Company will amend and restate its certificate of incorporation to, among other things, effect an 8:1 reverse stock split with respect to the Companys common stock. In addition, certain board designation rights of JPE that were contemplated to be included in the Original Investment Agreement will instead be included in amendments to the Companys certificate of incorporation. The descriptions of the A&R Investment Agreement and the related Exhibits contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the A&R Investment Agreement and the Exhibits thereto, copies of which are filed as Exhibit 2.5 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and incorporated by reference herein. On April 18, 2024, the Company filed its Preliminary Proxy Statement with the SEC for the Special Meeting of shareholders. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 (Continued). Revenues For the three months ended March 31, 2024, revenues increased $1,307,817 (10.0%) to $14,435,555 as compared to $13,127,738 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase is mostly attributed to an increase in professional consulting revenues as well as increases in software revenue and subscription income. Software revenues increased $157,672 (4.7%) to $3,480,001 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $3,322,329 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily because of an increase in our ERP software sales, especially for Sage Intacct and Acumatica. Service and other revenue increased $1,150,145 (11.7%) to $10,955,554 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $9,805,409 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase is mainly attributed to the increase in professional services, especially for our Acumatica, Sage 100, and Sage Intacct products, as well as an increase in revenue in our hosting services and increase in subscription income. Recruiting continues to be a difficult challenge, but our efforts to increase our consulting staff with additional resources, as well as system improvements, have yielded a positive result in our financial performance. We have also utilized some outside contractors to assist in projects because of our growth. Gross profit Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased $299,927 (5.6%) to $5,657,487 as compared to $5,357,560 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the overall gross profit percentage was 39.2% as compared to 40.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The gross profit attributed to software revenues decreased $108,876 (7.8%) to $1,281,178 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $1,390,054 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, due lower software revenues in Human Capital Management practice and lower margins on third party software that are incorporated into the vendors price list for which we get a lower margin. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the gross profit percentage on software revenue was 36.8% as compared to 41.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The gross profit attributed to services and other increased $408,803 (10.3%) to $4,376,309 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $3,967,506 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase is attributed to revenue increases in managed services and application hosting as well as a n increase in subscription income. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the gross profit percentage on service revenue was 39.9% as compared to 40.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Operating expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased $166,713 (7.7%) to $2,345,416 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $2,178,703 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase is primarily due to increased salary increases, new personnel, as well as increased travel expenses associated with attendance at trade shows and conferences. General and administrative expenses increased $283,878 (11.1%) to $2,843,906 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $2,560,028 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase in expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 is a result of salary increases and increases in employee benefits, such as medical and 401k match, as well as an increase in license fees. Share-based compensation decreased to $-0- for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $41,497 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as share-based compensation has been fully amortized. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $32,684 (15.7%) to $240,479 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to $207,795 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Higher amortization as a result of the JCS asset purchase was partially offset by lower depreciation as a result of certain assets being fully depreciated. Income (loss) from operations As a result of the above, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company had net income from operations of $227,686 as compared to net income from operations of $369,537 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. 28 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Liquidity and Capital Resources The uncertainty on the economy continues to create uncertainty for the Company in the coming months and quarters. While our Company has not been significantly impacted because of this uncertainty, the potential negative impact on our business, in the future, is impossible to determine at this point, although it is likely that we could suffer negative consequences as many companies go out of business or decrease their technology spending. As such, we need to rely on our own limited resources to weather any economic downturn. Management will continue to monitor developments, explore various cost-cutting measures, and explore other sources of funding, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in doing so. The Company currently has no line of credit or other credit facility with any lender. We continue to review and look for additional operating income opportunities through potential acquisitions, product additions or investments. Such acquisitions or investments may consume cash reserves or require additional cash or equity. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: (i) strategic acquisitions or investments; (ii) an increase to current company personnel; (iii) the level of resources that we devote to sales and marketing capabilities; (iv) technological advances; and (v) the activities of competitors. In addition to exploring potential acquisitions, product additions and investments, we continue to add new customers and increase sales to existing customers. Management also explores opportunities to increase its business and profitability by entering into collaboration agreements, buying assets, and acquiring companies in the business software and information technology consulting and other markets with solid revenue streams and established customer bases that generate positive cash flow. At March 31, 2024, future payments of promissory notes are as follows over each of the next four fiscal years: Remainder of 2024 $ 582,079 2025 600,411 2026 393,854 Total $ 1,576,344 The Companys working capital was $555,974 at March 31, 2024 as compared to $273,762 at December 31, 2023 mostly due to an increase in deferred charges and unbilled services offset partially by an increase in deferred revenues. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company had a net increase in cash of $136,271. The Companys principal sources and uses of funds were as follows: Cash provided by (used) in operating activities: Operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 provided $365,512 of cash as compared to using $783,062 of cash for the same period in 2023. The increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to the decrease in accounts receivable as well as increases in accounts payable and deferred revenues. Cash used in investing activities: Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 used cash of $60,524 as compared to using $4,979 of cash for the same period in 2023, primarily as a result of increase in the purchases of equipment. Cash used in financing activities: Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 used cash of $168,717 as compared to using cash in the amount of $344,813 for the same period in 2023. The decrease in cash used is a result of the lower payments of long-term debt. The Company believes that as a result of the growth in business, and the funds on hand, it has adequate liquidity to fund its operating plans for at least the next twelve months, provided, however, that the Company cannot currently quantify the recent economic uncertainty and its effects on the business in the coming quarters. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, inflation has impacted the Companys profitability, as it has resulted in increased costs necessary to recruit and retain personnel. The Company has returned marketing and trade show schedules, and the higher costs of travel and meals will also have a negative impact on the Companys profitability. 29 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued). Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2024 and for fiscal 2023, we did not engage in any material off-balance sheet activities or have any relationships or arrangements with unconsolidated entities established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitment or intent to provide additional funding to any such entities.