Item 2.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. The forward-looking statements are based upon managements beliefs and assumptions and are made as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements included in this report. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our and the Company refer to reAlpha Tech Corp. and its subsidiaries, as applicable. 21 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report, as well as our audited financial statements and related notes included in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, as amended on May 13, 2025 (the Form 10-K). In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis here and throughout this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to, the risks described in the section titled Risk Factors in our Form 10-K. Business Overview We are a real estate technology company developing an end-to-end homebuying platform, which we have named reAlpha (hereinafter referred to as the reAlpha platform). Our goal is to offer through our AI-powered platform a more affordable, streamlined experience for those on the journey to homeownership. The reAlpha platform integrates AI-driven tools to offer, among others, tailored property recommendations, an intuitive visual interface, and certain homebuying services, including realty services, mortgage brokering services, and digital title and escrow services within the platform. We developed the reAlpha platform as a commitment to eliminate traditional barriers to home ownership and make it more accessible and transparent. The reAlpha platform assists homebuyers with tasks such as mortgage pre-approval, booking tours, sending offer letters and completing property acquisitions. The reAlpha platform also provides market insights, detailed property data, and uses large language models to answer queries and facilitate the homebuying process via a user-friendly, 24/7 web platform and iOS application. The reAlpha platforms capabilities are complemented and supported by licensed real estate agents with reAlpha Realty, LLC, our in-house brokerage firm. Although the reAlpha platform is currently only available for homebuyers in 20 counties in Florida, we intend to expand its capabilities nationwide by the end of 2026 depending on numerous factors, including, among other things, our ability to acquire and maintain real estate and mortgage licenses in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, obtain additional MLS data, create and run successful marketing campaigns nationwide to gain brand recognition and increase our geographical reach and build a scalable technology infrastructure. We are continuously working to commercialize, enhance and refine our AI technologies and the reAlpha platform to continue generating technology-derived revenue. Further, as part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue identifying and acquiring companies that are complementary to our business, and we intend to generate revenue from integrating such acquired companies and their capabilities into our business and our reAlpha platform. To advance such strategy, since the beginning of 2024 we have announced the acquisitions of Naamche, Inc. and its Nepal counterpart entity Naamche, Inc. Pvt. Ltd. (collectively, Naamche), AiChat Pte. Ltd (AiChat), Hyperfast Title LLC (Hyperfast), Debt Does Deals, LLC (d/b/a Be My Neighbor) (Be My Neighbor) and GTG Financial, Inc. (GTG Financial). These acquisitions have added revenue, additional potential sources of revenue, technology services under our umbrella of product offerings, and, as further described below, additional operational and service-related capabilities to the reAlpha platform. For instance, as a result of the acquisition of Be My Neighbor and GTG Financial, our in-house mortgage brokerage that operates through the reAlpha platform is now licensed to operate in 30 U.S. states. Additionally, because of our acquisition of Hyperfast, we now can offer title, closing and settlement services in 3 U.S. states. As a result of these acquisitions, consumers using the reAlpha platform have access to these homebuying services directly in the platform, both through the web platform and iOS application. We expect to continue seeking additional strategic acquisitions that we believe will add additional sources of potential revenue and services to homebuyers using the reAlpha platform, including, but not limited to, home-showing companies, wholesale mortgage lenders, companies providing services for post-closing services (such as utility hookups, among others) and real estate brokerages. Additionally, although we have already acquired two mortgage brokerage firms and a title company, we may consider further acquisitions of companies providing such services to increase the number of U.S. states we are licensed to operate in and the potential revenue opportunities associated with expanding our geographical markets and reach of the reAlpha platform. 22 Before shifting our focus towards the development of our AI technologies and the reAlpha platform, our operational model was asset-heavy and built on utilizing our proprietary AI-powered technology tools for the acquisition of real estate, converting them into short-term rentals, and enabling individual investors to acquire fractional interests in these real estate properties, allowing such investors to receive distributions based on the propertys performance as a short-term rental. In the first quarter of 2024, we decided to halt these operations due to macroeconomic conditions, such as higher interest rates, inflation, and elevated property prices, which conditions persisted throughout the fiscal year 2024. This led us to sell our last real property asset for such operations, and to recognize the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets under the rental business segment. As a result, in the first quarter of 2025, our board of directors approved to discontinue our short-term rental business operations entirely. The discontinuation of our rental business segment operations meets the criteria to be reported as discontinued operations (see Note 18 Discontinued Operations for more information) The technology services segment is currently our only reportable segment following the approval by our board of directors to discontinue our rental business segment operations (see Note 18 Discontinued Operations and Note 17 Segment Reporting for more information). Our technology services segment offers and develops AI-based products and services to customers in various industries, including, but not limited to, real estate, retail, hospitality and education industries. Our technology development efforts are currently focused on the development and enhancement of the reAlpha platform. Technology Services We seek to differentiate ourselves from competitors primarily through the integration of AI into our technologies for the real estate industry. We expect that our technology services segment will benefit from the current exponential growth of the AI industry, and we believe that we are well-positioned to take advantage of these current trends due to our early adoption of AI for the development of our technologies. Our revenue model revolves around our realty services (e.g., assisting a homebuyer with finding, touring, and closing on homes), mortgage brokering services (e.g., finding and originating a mortgage for the homebuyer that fits their financial situation, needs, credit, and location), and digital title and escrow services (e.g., title, closing and settlement fees), offered through the reAlpha platform, which is currently under limited availability, and services offered by our subsidiaries, such as AiChat, Naamche, Be My Neighbor, Hyperfast and GTG Financial. We currently offer a commission refund model through the reAlpha platform as part of our strategy to provide an integrated and customer-centric homebuying experience. Under this model, homebuyers may receive up to 75% of any buy-side brokerage commissions paid, which typically range from 2.5% to 3% of a homes sale price depending on the geographical market, in connection with the purchase of a home through the reAlpha platform as a rebate or refund (hereinafter referred to as the commission refund). This commission refund is paid to the homebuyer by applying such commission refund towards closing costs or by adding the refund to a homebuyers down payment, as applicable and subject to market-by-market minimums. The percentage of the commission refund available to a homebuyer is determined based on their use of eligible integrated homebuying services offered via the reAlpha platform, such as realty, mortgage brokering and digital title and escrow services. Currently, homebuyers can receive 25% commission refund when using one homebuying service, 50% when using two homebuying services and 75% when using all three homebuying services. The commission refund model for the reAlpha platform is currently in a testing phase and remains subject to change as we evaluate customer adoption, expand into new geographical markets and further develop our platform and/or expand the number of homebuying services provided thereunder. 23 Although the reAlpha platform is currently only available for homebuyers in 20 counties in Florida, we intend to expand its capabilities nationwide by the end of 2026. In order to expand the availability of the reAlpha platform, and services provided thereunder, nationwide, we will need to obtain the relevant real estate and mortgage licenses in the U.S. states we are not yet licensed in, and, until we obtain such licenses, the reAlpha platform will remain under limited availability for homebuyers in 20 counties in Florida. While the reAlpha platform is under limited availability, we will continue offering standalone mortgage brokerage services through our subsidiaries, Be My Neighbor and GTG Financial, in 30 U.S. States and digital title and escrow services through our subsidiary, Hyperfast, in 3 U.S. states. We also plan to continue acquiring companies in the real estate market that provide services relating to the homebuying process, including, but not limited to, mortgage brokerage firms, title and escrow service providers, home insurance providers and others that are complementary to our business, which we expect to generate revenues by offering such homebuying services through the reAlpha platform, or as standalone offerings to customers. We expect that our reAlpha platform will drive additional customers to these acquired companies through users interacting and buying homes on the reAlpha platform, which will expand their overall potential customer base. Recent Developments ATM Program Termination On December 19, 2024, we entered into an At the Market Sales Agreement (as amended from time to time, the Sales Agreement) with A.G.P./Alliance Global Partners (A.G.P.). In accordance with the terms of the Sales Agreement, on March 24, 2025, we provided notice to A.G.P. of our election to terminate the Sales Agreement, which termination was effective on March 29, 2025. Through March 24, 2025, the Company had sold an aggregate of 160,879 shares of common stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement, resulting in gross proceeds of $231,235. Designation of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock On February 20, 2025, the Company filed the Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the Certificate of Designation) with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, designating 1,000,000 shares of the 5,000,000 shares of the authorized but unissued class of the Companys stock known as preferred stock as Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the Series A Preferred Stock). The Series A Preferred Stock has a stated value of $20 per share (the Stated Value), and a conversion price per share of $20 per share, subject to adjustments provided in the Certificate of Designation (the Conversion Price). The holders of outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to cast the number of votes equal to the number of whole shares of common stock into which the shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by such holder are convertible at the Conversion Price as of the record date for determining stockholders entitled to vote on any matter presented to the stockholders of the Company for their action or consideration at any meeting of stockholders of the Company (or by written consent of stockholders in lieu of meeting). Further, commencing on the issuance date of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, each such share of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding and not converted into common stock will accrue dividends on a daily basis at a per annum rate of 3.0% of the Stated Value, which dividends will be payable no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each Dividend Period (as defined in the Certificate of Designation) in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of the Certificate of Designation (the Preferred Dividends). If any shares of Series A Preferred Stock are converted in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of the Certificate of Designation on a Conversion Date (as defined in the Certificate of Designation) during the period after the last day of a Dividend Period and prior to the close of business on the corresponding Dividend Record Date (as defined in the Certificate of Designation) for such Dividend Period, and the Company has not paid the entire amount of the Preferred Dividends payable for such corresponding Dividend Period, then the amount of Preferred Dividends with respect to such shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be added to the Liquidation Amount (as defined below) for purposes of such conversion, which Liquidation Amount is the amount, as of any date and with respect to any share of Series A Preferred Stock, equal to the sum of (x) the Stated Value and (y) accrued but unpaid dividends, if any, on such share of Series A Preferred Stock (the Liquidation Amount). If any shares of Series A Preferred Stock are instead converted in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of the Certificate of Designation on a Conversion Date during the period after the close of business on any Dividend Record Date and prior to the close of business on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date (as defined in the Certificate of Designation), then the amount of Preferred Dividends with respect to such shares of Series A Preferred Stock (the Residual Payments), at the Companys option, will either (x) be paid in cash on or prior to the date of such conversion or (y) if not paid in cash, be added to the Liquidation Amount for purposes of such conversion. 24 The Series A Preferred Stock ranks: (i) senior to all of the common stock, (ii) senior to any class or series of capital stock of the Company hereafter created specifically ranking by its terms junior to any Series A Preferred Stock (Junior Securities), (iii) on parity with any class or series of capital stock of the Company hereafter created specifically ranking by its terms on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock (Parity Securities) and (iv) junior to any class or series of capital stock of the Company hereafter created specifically ranking by its terms senior to any Series A Preferred Stock (Senior Securities), in each case, as to distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntarily or involuntarily. In the event of the Companys liquidation, dissolution or winding up, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to, subject to the superior rights of the holders of any Senior Securities, (i) receive, in preference to any distributions of any of the assets, whether capital or surplus, of the Company to the holders of the common stock and Junior Securities and pari passu with any distribution to the holders of Parity Securities, (a) any Residual Payments and (b) the Liquidation Amount with respect to such shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in each case, before any payments shall be made or any assets distributed to holders of any class of common stock or Junior Securities; and (ii) participate pari passu with the holders of common stock (on an as-converted to common stock basis and disregarding for such purpose any Beneficial Ownership Limitation (as defined in the Certificate of Designation)) in the remaining distribution of the net assets of the Company available for distribution. The Series A Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder at any time during the period beginning on the date of issuance of such Series A Preferred Stock and ending on the date that is 3 years following the respective issuance date thereof (the Conversion Period) into a number of Conversion Shares (as defined below) equal to the Liquidation Amount of such share of Series A Preferred Stock divided by the Conversion Price, subject to any Beneficial Ownership Limitation. On the business day after the expiration of the Conversion Period of a Series A Preferred Stock, each such share of Series A Preferred Stock will automatically convert into a number of Conversion Shares equal to the Liquidation Amount of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock divided by the Conversion Price, subject to any Beneficial Ownership Limitation. Acquisition of GTG Financial, Inc. On February 20, 2025, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the GTG Purchase Agreement) with GTG Financial and Glenn Groves, an individual (the Seller), pursuant to which the Company acquired from the Seller 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of GTG (the Acquired Shares), a mortgage brokerage company, the closing of which transaction (the Closing and the date of the Closing, the GTG Closing Date) took place simultaneously with the execution of the GTG Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the GTG Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to pay to the Seller an aggregate purchase price of up to $4,200,000 for the Acquired Shares, subject to the adjustments described below, consisting of: (i) $281,250 (the Preferred Consideration) in 14,063 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (as defined below) (the Preferred Shares), each of which is convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $20 per share of Series A Preferred Stock (the Conversion Shares), in accordance with the terms and conditions of and subject to the adjustments set forth in the Certificate of Designation; (ii) $1,287,000 in 700,055 restricted shares of common stock (the Company Shares), at a price per share of $1.84 calculated based on the volume weighted average price of the common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market (the VWAP) for the 7 calendar days immediately prior to the GTG Closing Date and payable to the Seller within 90 days from the GTG Closing Date; (iii) $1,344,750 payable in cash (the Cash Portion) to the Seller as follows: (A) 30% of the Cash Portion payable on the 120-day anniversary of the GTG Closing Date, (B) 30% of the Cash Portion payable on the 150-day anniversary of the GTG Closing Date and (C) 40% of the Cash Portion payable on the 180-day anniversary of the GTG Closing Date; and (iv) up to an aggregate of $1,287,000 in potential earn-out payments, payable in three tranches of up to $429,000 in cash or restricted shares of common stock (the Earn-Out Shares), at the Companys sole discretion and subject to the adjustments described below, each of which is calculated based on a formula set forth in the GTG Purchase Agreement and subject to the achievement of certain financial metrics by GTG for three successive measurement periods of 12 months, with the first measurement period ending 12 months following the 1st of the month after the GTG Closing Date (collectively, the GTG Earn-Out Payments, and each, an GTG Earn-Out Payment). Specifically, each GTG Earn-Out Payment will be payable in full if GTG achieves certain revenue and EBITDA thresholds for each of the measurement periods, each of which is payable within 120 days after the end of a measurement period. If GTG does not meet the revenue and EBITDA threshold for a measurement period, a pro-rated amount of the GTG Earn-Out Payment for such measurement period will be paid to GTG based on the actual revenue and EBITDA achieved in accordance with the formula set forth in the GTG Purchase Agreement. Further, if GTG exceeds the revenue and EBITDA thresholds for any measurement period, the GTG Earn-Out Payment for such measurement period will not be capped and will be increased accordingly based on the formula set forth in the GTG Purchase Agreement. 25 Additionally, the GTG Purchase Agreement provides that, to the extent that, upon an Automatic Conversion (as defined in the Certificate of Designation), the aggregate value for the Conversion Shares on the Automatic Conversion Date (as defined in the Certificate of Designation) is less than the Preferred Consideration, as determined based on the VWAP of such Conversion Shares on the Automatic Conversion Date, then the Company will pay for such difference in value in cash or in shares of common stock (the Shortfall Shares, and together with the Conversion Shares, Company Shares and Earn-Out Shares, the GTG Shares), at the Companys sole discretion, payable or issuable to the holder, as applicable, no later than 30 calendar days after the Automatic Conversion Date. Further, to the extent that the Company does not pay the Cash Portion in full by the date that is 180 days of the GTG Closing Date, then, beginning on the 181st day following the GTG Closing Date, the outstanding amount of the Cash Portion will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to 4% and the Seller will have the right, at the Sellers sole discretion and to the extent permitted by law, to rescind the transactions contemplated under the GTG Purchase Agreement, in which case the Seller will return any and all consideration paid by the Company in exchange for all the Acquired Shares, and the Company will return the Acquired Shares to the Seller, in each case in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of the GTG Purchase Agreement. The Cash Portion outstanding at any time will also become due and payable no later than 60 days after the Companys consummation of a bona fide transaction or series of transactions with the principal purpose of raising capital in the minimum amount of $10,000,000, whether through loans provided to the Company or through the sale of the Companys equity securities. The aggregate amount of GTG Shares issuable under the GTG Purchase Agreement, for purposes of complying with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5635, may in no case exceed 19.99% of our outstanding common stock (the Cap Amount) immediately prior to the execution of the GTG Purchase Agreement, or 9,206,230 shares, without stockholder approval of any shares exceeding such amount. In the event the GTG Shares issuable pursuant to the GTG Purchase Agreement exceed the Cap Amount, the Company will pay the Seller cash in lieu of such excess shares of common stock, based on a formula set forth in the GTG Purchase Agreement. Advertising Agreement and Investment Agreement with Mercurius Media Capital LP On March 7, 2025, we simultaneously entered into an Advertising Agreement (the Advertising Agreement) and an Investment Agreement (the Investment Agreement, and together with the Advertising Agreement, the Transaction Documents) with Mercurius Media Capital LP (MMC). In accordance with the Transaction Documents, the Company agreed to issue and sell to MMC 250,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $5,000,000 (the Consideration). The Consideration was paid to the Company in the form of a Credit (as defined in the Advertising Agreement) issued by MMC to the Company at the closing date in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Advertising Agreement. Under the Advertising Agreement, the Company will have until December 31, 2025, or, if extended pursuant to the terms of the Advertising Agreement at the request of the Company (the Extension Period), March 31, 2026 (such term, as extended pursuant to the terms of the Advertising Agreement, the Credit Term), to utilize its Credit with MMC to purchase advertisements in the Media (as defined in the Advertising Agreement) related to the Companys products, services, brands and business, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Advertising Agreement. Any unused portion of the Credit at the expiration of the Credit Term will be forfeited by the Company, subject to the compliance of MMC with the terms and obligations set forth in the Advertising Agreement. To the extent the original Credit Term is extended in accordance with the terms of the Advertising Agreement, the Company will only be able to utilize a maximum of $1,000,000 of the remaining Credit during such Extension Period. In order to purchase advertisements in the Media, the Company will be required to submit Media Credit Orders (as defined in the Advertising Agreement) to MMC, and, upon receipt of those Media Credit Orders by MMC, the Credit relating to those will be deemed used, provided that all advertisements relating to such Media Credit Order run on the Media in accordance therewith no later than 90 days after the last date specified in the applicable Media Credit Order, and, to the extent the advertisements do not run in the applicable Media, such Credit shall be re-added to the Companys overall Credit to be used during the Credit Term. Each of MMC and the Company may terminate the Advertising Agreement at any time in the event of a Material Breach (as defined in the Advertising Agreement) by the Company or MMC, provided that such Material Breach, if capable of cure or remedy, has not been cured or remedied by such defaulting party within 60 days of the receipt of written notice of such Material Breach by the defaulting party. 26 Additionally, the Investment Agreement further provides that, to the extent that the aggregate value of the Conversion Shares issued upon the Automatic Conversion is less than the Consideration, as determined based on the closing price of our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq) on the applicable Automatic Conversion Date, then the Company shall pay for such difference in cash or in shares of common stock (the MMC Shortfall Shares, and together with the Conversion Shares issuable to MMC, the MMC Shares), at the Companys sole discretion, no later than 30 calendar days after the Automatic Conversion Date, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Investment Agreement. The Investment Agreement further provides that at any time during the 2-month period beginning on the closing date of the transactions contemplated under the Transaction Documents, MMC had the right, but not the obligation, to reinvest up to an additional $5,000,000 in the aggregate in the Company on the same terms and conditions as those set forth in the Transaction Documents. As of the date of this filing, MMCs reinvestment right has expired unexercised. The aggregate amount of MMC Shares issuable under the Investment Agreement, for purposes of complying with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5635, may in no case exceed the Cap Amount immediately prior to the execution of the Investment Agreement, or 9,228,411 shares, without stockholder approval of any MMC Shares exceeding such amount. In the event the MMC Shares issuable pursuant to the Investment Agreement exceed the Cap Amount, the Company will pay MMC cash in lieu of such excess MMC Shares, based on a formula set forth in the Investment Agreement. Mutual Settlement and Release Agreement with Unreal Estate Inc. On November 29, 2024: (i) we entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (the MIPA), with Unreal Estate LLC (the Unreal), USRealty Brokerage Solutions, LLC (US Realty) and Unreal Estate Inc. (Unreal Estate), pursuant to which, on November 20, 2024 we acquired from the Unreal 100% of the membership interests of US Realty that were outstanding immediately prior to the execution of the MIPA; (ii) we entered into a Letter Agreement (the Letter Agreement), with Unreal and Unreal Estate, pursuant to which we agreed to purchase an aggregate amount of $600,000 of convertible promissory notes from Unreal Estate in a series of six installments; and (iii) Unreal Estate issued and sold to us, pursuant to the terms of the Letter Agreement, a convertible promissory note in the original principal amount of $60,000 (the Unreal Note, and together with the MIPA and the Letter Agreement, the Agreements). On March 19, 2025, we entered into a Mutual Settlement and Release Agreement (the Settlement Agreement), with Unreal Estate, to resolve certain claims and disputes between us and Unreal Estate related to their respective obligations under the Agreements and the transactions contemplated thereby. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, we agreed to pay Unreal Estate a total sum of $80,000 in cash within one business day following Unreal Estates execution and delivery of the Settlement Agreement, and the parties agreed that we will retain full ownership of and control over the membership interests of US Realty that we had acquired pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. The Settlement Agreement also includes a mutual release of claims whereby each of the Company and Unreal Estate agreed (on behalf of themselves and their respective affiliates, successors and assigns) to release the other party of any known and unknown claims arising out of or related to the Agreements and other specified agreements entered into in connection therewith, subject to certain exceptions only with respect to the release of claims given by us. Pursuant to and as a result of the Settlement Agreement, the Unreal Note was cancelled and the parties confirmed the termination of the Letter Agreement. ATM Offering On April 2, 2025, we entered into an At The Market Offering Agreement (the Offering Agreement) with H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC (Wainwright.). In accordance with the terms of the Offering Agreement, we may offer and sell from time to time through Wainwright, acting as sales agent, shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $7,650,000 (the Placement Shares). The Placement Shares will be issued pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-283284) filed with the SEC on November 15, 2024, and declared effective on November 26, 2024. The Company filed a prospectus supplement dated April 2, 2025, with the SEC in connection with the offer and sale of the Placement Shares. 27 Warrant Inducement Transaction On April 6, 2025, we entered into inducement offer letter agreements (the Inducement Letters) with certain holders (the Holders) of existing warrants of the Company to purchase up to an aggregate of 4,218,751 shares of our common stock having an original exercise price of $5.00 per share, which was subsequently adjusted to $1.44 per share pursuant to the anti-dilution provision included in such existing warrants, issued to the Holders on November 24, 2023, with a current expiration date of November 24, 2028 (the Existing Warrants). Pursuant to the Inducement Letters, the Holders agreed to exercise for cash their Existing Warrants at a reduced exercise price of $0.75 per share (the Reduced Exercised Price) in consideration for our agreement to issue in a private placement new common stock purchase warrants (the New Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 8,437,502 shares of common stock (the New Warrant Shares) (such transaction, the Warrant Inducement). In connection with the Warrant Inducement, we also agreed to reduce the exercise price of the Existing Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,114,582 shares of common stock for all holders of the Existing Warrants not participating in the Warrant Inducement to the Reduced Exercise Price for the remaining term of the Existing Warrants. The closing of the Warrant Inducement occurred on April 8, 2025, and we received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $3.1 million from the exercise of the Existing Warrants, before deducting related placement agent fees and other expenses payable by us, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $2.9 million. The exercise of the New Warrants and issuance of the New Warrant Shares is subject to stockholder approval (the Stockholder Approval) in accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5635(d). On May 5, 2025, we filed a definitive information statement on Schedule 14C related to the necessary Stockholder Approval, which approval will become effective on May 25, 2025, which is 20 calendar days after the mailing of the definitive information statement on Schedule 14C to the holders of our capital stock as of April 14, 2025. Recent Legal Challenges to Sales Agents Commission Structure Recent developments in the real estate industry have seen increased scrutiny and legal challenges related to the structure of real estate agent commissions. Legal actions and regulatory inquiries have been initiated to examine the fairness, transparency, and potential anticompetitive practices associated with the traditional commission model. Courts and regulatory bodies may be increasingly focused on ensuring transparency in commission structures, potentially leading to reforms that impact the earnings and business models of real estate professionals. Changes in legislation or legal precedents could impact the standard practices of commission-sharing between listing agents and buyers agents and may adversely affect our business model and revenues. On October 31, 2023, a federal jury in Missouri found that the NAR and certain companies conspired to artificially inflate brokerage commissions, which violates federal antitrust law. The judgment was appealed on October 31, 2023, while these and other plaintiffs have filed similar lawsuits against a number of other large real estate brokerage companies. On or about March 15, 2024, NAR agreed to settle these lawsuits, by agreeing to pay $418 million over approximately four years, and changing certain of its rules surrounding agent commissions. This settlement resolves claims against NAR and nearly every NAR member; all state, territorial and local REALTOR associations; all association-owned MLSs; and all brokerages with an NAR member as principal whose residential transaction volume in 2022 was $2 billion or below and is subject to court approval. Due to this litigation, and effective as of August 17, 2024, NAR has implemented a new rule that prohibits offers of compensation on MLS listings and requires written agreements between buyers and buyers agents. Early indications suggest that these changes are already prompting shifts in industry practices as a result of the NAR lawsuit. For instance, discussions are underway regarding potential changes to rules established by local or state real estate boards or multiple listing services. These changes may necessitate adjustments in brokers business models, including alterations in agent and broker compensation structures, as well as requiring buyers to sign separate agreements to compensate their agents. We believe that we are well-positioned to take advantage of some of these potential industry changes. Given that the reAlpha platform offers commission refunds tied to the use of integrated homebuying services, we believe that homebuyers that have access to the reAlpha platform may choose our platform over seeking traditional agents to conduct their property search and acquisition to avoid paying additional buyers agents fees through these separate agreements. Additionally, we expect that our competitors will need to develop mechanisms and plans to enable buyers to negotiate commissions, which may add another layer of complexity into real estate transactions. We believe that the reAlpha platform will remove such layer by offering all these services including negotiations of fees through our AI negotiation helper in one platform, while providing buyers with a commission refund on all homes purchased through the reAlpha platform. The NAR litigation and its ramifications, however, remain uncertain and could cause unforeseen turmoil in our industry, the impacts of which could have a negative effect on us as an industry participant. 28 Critical Accounting Policies The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and reflect the application of estimates and assumptions that require significant judgment by management. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures and are based on a combination of historical experience, current business conditions, and other factors available to management. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty in assumptions and external conditions. There have been no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies or the methods used in applying those policies during the three months ended March 31, 2025. For a full description of our critical accounting policies and significant estimates, refer to the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), and Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 (unaudited) March 31, 2024 Revenue $ 925,635 $ 20,426 Cost of Revenue (406,968 ) (18,249 ) Gross profit $ 518,667 $ 2,177 Operating expense (2,940,925 ) (1,308,835 ) Operating loss (2,422,258 ) (1,306,658 ) Other expense (428,093 ) (111,548 ) Loss from continuing operations before tax (2,850,351 ) (1,418,206 ) Loss from discontinued operations before tax - (839 ) Revenue. Revenues were $925,635 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $20,426 for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of approximately 4,432%. Our revenues currently consist of the revenues generated in our technology services segment that we receive directly from, or from services related to, our technologies and acquired companies. This increase in revenue was primarily driven by revenue generated by Be My Neighbor and GTG Financial and AiChats conversational AI technology offered to enterprise clients. Be My Neighbor and GTG Financial generated $386,594 through mortgage brokerage transactions, which included loan origination fees, broker commissions, and processing fees, while AiChat generated $109,552 from subscription fees for its AI conversational technologies. Cost of revenue. Cost of revenue was $406,968 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $18,249 for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of approximately 2,130%. This increase was primarily driven by the integration of GTG Financial into our operations of $217,609, which primarily includes direct expenses associated with delivering our loan brokerage services and technology solutions, such as compensation-related expenses for roles supporting loan origination and customer interactions. Operating expenses. Operating expenses were $2,940,925 during the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $1,308,835 for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of approximately 125%. This increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by the integration of the newly acquired businesses within the technology segment, including Be My Neighbor and GTG Financial. A significant portion of this increase is attributed to salaries of the employees from our recent acquisitions, which salary expenses amounted to $803,435, marketing and advertising expenses related to our advertising campaign of $442,155 and professional and legal services expenses of $347,261 incurred in connection with our recent acquisitions. Other (expense) income. Other expenses were $428,093 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $111,548 for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of approximately 284%. This increase was primarily driven by the interest accrued on that certain secured promissory note (the Note), which was issued to Streeterville Capital, LLC (the Lender) pursuant to that certain Purchase Agreement, dated August 14, 2024 (the Purchase Agreement), in the amount of $113,542, the amortization expense of the original issue discount of the Note in the amount of $72,501 and the amortization expense of the commitment fee related to our equity facility with GEM Yield Bahamas Limited (GYBL) and GEM Global Yield LLC SCS (GEM Global, and together with GYBL, GEM), in the amount of $125,000. 29 Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our financial information presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we believe Adjusted EBITDA, a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure, as such term is defined under the rules of the SEC, is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that this non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, this non-U.S. GAAP financial measures is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate a similarly titled non-U.S. GAAP measure differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-U.S. GAAP financial measure as a tool for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for our non-U.S. GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measure and the reconciliation of this non-U.S. GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. We use Adjusted EBITDA, a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure, to evaluate our operating performance and facilitate comparisons across periods and with peer companies. We reconcile our Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss) adjusted to exclude interest expense, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation, and other non-cash, non-operating, or non-recurring items that we believe are not indicative of our core business operations. We believe this measure provides useful insight into our ongoing performance; however, it should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, net income or other financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented below: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net loss $ (2,850,351 ) $ (1,419,045 ) Adjusted to exclude the following Depreciation and amortization 179,149 71,453 Changes in fair value of contingent consideration 93,000 - Interest expense 205,247 10,445 Amortization of loan discounts and origination fee(1) 121,251 - GEM commitment fee (2) 125,000 - Share based compensation (3) 78,355 - Acquisition-related expenses (4) 87,352 - Adjusted EBITDA (1,960,997 ) (1,337,147 ) (1) Reflects the amortized original issue discount related to the Note (as defined above). (2) This pertains to the commitment fee of $1 million in connection with the GEM equity facility, which has been amortized over a period of 24 months. (3) Compensation provided to employees for services through share-based awards, which is recognized as a non-cash expense. (4) Expenses related to acquisitions, including professional and legal fees, which are excluded from U.S. GAAP financial measures to provide a clearer view of ongoing operational performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of its business operations, including working capital needs, debt services, acquisitions, contractual obligations and other commitments. Our liquidity and capital resources are critical to our ability to execute our business plan and achieve our strategic objectives. Accordingly, to the extent that collections from our short-term rentals, if any, and technologies cannot fund our operations, we intend to utilize equity or debt offerings to raise these funds, although volatility in the capital markets may negatively affect our ability to do so. The cost of capital and historically high-interest rates can also have a direct impact on our ability to raise capital through debt or equity offerings or to pursue acquisitions. Economic environments yielding higher interest rates with more stringent debt terms such as todays market environment require larger equity commitments. This means that, as larger equity commitments are required, we will have less leverage and may have fewer acquisitions overall. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on various factors, including market conditions, investor demand, and our financial performance. 30 We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.2 million as of March 31, 2025 and approximately $3.1 million as of December 31, 2024. Based on our estimates, we believe we do not have sufficient working capital to meet our financial needs for the 12-month period following March 31, 2025. Further, based on our current operating plans, to the extent the Lender (as defined above) does not redeem additional portions of the Note (as further described below) and we do not raise additional capital through any offering of our securities, we estimate that our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2025, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements into the third quarter of 2025. Accordingly, to the extent that collections from our operations in the technology services segment cannot fund our operations, we intend to utilize equity or debt offerings to raise additional funds, although volatility in the capital markets may negatively affect our ability to do so. As part of these efforts, we previously utilized our At the Market (ATM) program with A.G.P. to raise working capital, and as of the date of this report, we raised approximately $231,235 in gross proceeds through such ATM program prior to its termination (see Recent Developments ATM Program Termination and Note 15 Stockholders Equity (Deficit) for more information). Further, on April 2, 2025, we entered into the Offering Agreement with Wainwright (each as defined above), pursuant to which we are able to raise up to $7.65 million in gross proceeds through sales of our common stock with Wainwright acting as sales agent, which we expect to utilize from time to time to fund our operations (see Recent Developments ATM Offering for more information). We also recently completed the Warrant Inducement (as defined above) that resulted in gross proceeds to us of approximately $3.1 million, which provided us with additional liquidity to meet our financial needs (see Recent Developments Warrant Inducement Transaction for more information). While we anticipate continued operating losses in the near future, we expect to generate more significant revenues as we continue investing in the commercialization of our products and technologies and acquiring complementary businesses to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements. We may also receive proceeds from the cash exercises of the warrants in connection with our public offering from November 2023 (the Follow-On Warrants), which currently have an exercise price of $0.75 per share. We believe the likelihood that any Follow-On Warrant holders will exercise their warrants, and therefore the amount of cash proceeds that we would receive, is dependent upon the trading price of our common stock. We believe that if the trading price for our common stock is less than $1.44 per share, it is unlikely that the holders of the Follow-On Warrants will exercise them. Further, due to the ongoing disputes with GYBL regarding the warrants issued to them on October 23, 2023 (the GEM Warrants), pursuant to that certain Share Purchase Agreement among us and GEM, dated December 1, 2022 (the GEM Agreement), including our claims that the GEM Warrants are void and subject to rescission under Section 29(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) there is uncertainty about the enforceability of the GEM Warrants and its terms. On January 17, 2025, GYBL moved to dismiss our complaint relating to this dispute, and, on March 14, 2025, such motion to dismiss our complaint relating to our complaint was granted. Further, on March 19, 2025, GYBL filed a lawsuit against us, which is asserting two causes of action against us: (1) breach of the terms of the GEM Warrants, and (2) declaratory relief concerning the validity and enforceability of the GEM Warrants. In addition to the declaratory relief, GYBL is seeking monetary damages in an amount to be determined at trial, specific performance of the GEM Warrants and attorneys fees and litigation costs. As of the date of this report, there has been no adjustment to the exercise price of the GEM Warrants in connection with the dismissal of our complaint, and our position regarding the GEM Warrants, including the exercise price and subsequent adjustments thereof, remains the same pending resolution of these disputes with GEM. As a result, we do not expect that the GEM Warrants will be exercised while these disputes are pending, however, if these disputes are not resolved through negotiations and these lawsuits are adversely determined against us, we may be required to adjust the GEM Warrants exercise price downward significantly, and we may incur penalties under the GEM Agreement and/or other litigation expenses related to these disputes, which could materially adversely impact our financial statements, cash flows and results of operations. Our business model requires significant capital expenditures to build and maintain the infrastructure and technology required to support our operations. In addition, we may incur additional costs associated with research and development of new products and services, expansion into new markets or geographies, and general corporate overhead. As a result, we may require additional financing in the future to fund these initiatives, which may include additional equity or debt financing or strategic partnerships. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when required, we may be forced to reduce the scope of our operations, delay the launch of new products or services, or take other actions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may also be required to seek additional financing on terms that are unfavorable to us, which could result in the dilution of our stockholders ownership interests or the imposition of burdensome terms and restrictions. 31 Contractual Commitments and Obligations On August 14, 2024, we entered into the Purchase Agreement with the Lender (each as defined above) to issue and sell a secured promissory note worth $5,455,000. As of March 31, 2025, we have incurred $435,000 original issue discount expenses related to the Note. Further, in accordance with the Note and related Purchase Agreement, beginning seven months after issuance, the Lender may redeem up to $545,000 of the Note per month, which amount will be due and payable in cash within three trading days of our receipt of a written redemption notice from the Lender. The redemption feature of the Note may require us to make redemption payments at the request of the Lender, which redemptions may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay our debts as they come due, and we may not have the required funds to pay such redemptions, which could result in an event of default under the Note. As of the date of this report, we have made redemption payments in the aggregate amount of $1,090,000 pursuant to written redemption notices sent by the Lender. The Note and related Purchase Agreement also contain restrictive covenants on our ability to issue securities, which may further impact our ability to raise capital to meet our redemption payments or other obligations and expenses as they are due. Additionally, as part of the GTG Financial acquisition, and pursuant to the GTG Purchase Agreement (as defined above), we are obligated to pay to the Seller (as defined above) the Cash Portion (as defined above), which consist of cash payments in the aggregate amount of $1,344,750, which are payable in three tranches as follows: $403,425 on the 120th day after the GTG Closing Date (as defined above), $403,425 on the 150th day after the GTG Closing Date and $537,900 on the 180th day following the GTG Closing Date. Further, to the extent that we do not pay the Cash Portion in full by the date that is 180 days of the GTG Closing Date, then, beginning on the 181st day following the GTG Closing Date, the outstanding amount of the Cash Portion will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to 4%. The Cash Portion outstanding at any time will also become due and payable no later than 60 days after the Companys consummation of a bona fide transaction or series of transactions with the principal purpose of raising capital in the minimum amount of $10,000,000, whether through loans provided to the Company or through the sale of the Companys equity securities. The Cash Portion payments may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay our debts as they come due, and, to the extent we do not have the required funds to pay for such Cash Portions in full by the 180th day after the GTG Closing Date, the Seller will be eligible to rescind the transactions contemplated under the GTG Purchase Agreement, which may further materially impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods presented. Three-month period Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,267,103 ) $ (1,527,238 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 244,554 $ (19,700 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 103,005 $ (71,286 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in operating activities was $2,267,102, compared to $1,527,238 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase is primarily due to higher operating expenses as a result of our recently acquired companies, including salaries of $1,060,104 and professional and legal fees of $742,159. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by investing activities was $244,554, compared to $19,700 of net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase is primarily a result of the integration of GTG Financial into our business, which resulted in an increase of $349,529 due to the addition of the cash held by GTG Financial during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by financing activities was $103,004, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $71,286 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase was primarily due to the $231,235 of capital raised through our ATM program. 32 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions We do not have any off-balance sheet transactions.