Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Executive Overview You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our condensed consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Form 10-Q). This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act), about our expectations, beliefs, or intentions regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, strategies, the outcome of litigation, or prospects. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that these statements do not relate strictly to historical or current matters. Rather, forward-looking statements relate to anticipated or expected events, activities, trends, or results as of the date they are made. Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred, these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause our actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements. These factors include those contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the disclosures made in the Companys Information Statement included in the current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 27, 2018 (2017 Financials), and other filings we make with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as required by law. We intend that all forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor provisions of PSLRA. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and reflect our views as of the date they are made with respect to future events and financial performance. The historical financial statements we have included in this Form 10-Q may not reflect what our business, financial position or results of operations would have been had we been a publicly traded company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future when we are a stand-alone company. Overview On March 26, 2018, Fluent, Inc. (Fluent), formerly known as Cogint, Inc., a Delaware corporation, completed the previously announced spin-off (the Spin-off) of its risk management business from its digital marketing business by way of a distribution of all the shares of common stock of Fluents wholly-owned subsidiary, Red Violet, Inc., a Delaware corporation (red violet, we, us, our, and similar terms) , to Fluents stockholders of record as of March 19, 2018 (the Record Date) and certain warrant holders. The distribution occurred by way of a pro rata stock distribution to such common stock and warrant holders, each of whom received one share of red violets common stock for every 7.5 shares of Fluents common stock held on the Record Date or to which they were entitled to under their warrant, which resulted in a distribution of a total of 10,266,613 shares of red violet common stock. Upon the Spin-off, red violet owns Fluent subsidiaries which previously operated Fluents risk manag e ment business. As a result of the Spin-off, red violet is an independent public company and red violets common stock began regular-way trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol RDVT on March 27, 2018. Although the Spin-off was completed on March 26, 2018, the Company has reflected the Spin-off in these financial statements as if it occurred on March 31, 2018 as the Company determined that the impact is not material to the consolidated and combined financial statements. The financial statements present the consolidated and combined results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows of red violet and its subsidiaries. These financial statements were prepared on a consolidated and combined basis because the operations were under common control. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated between the consolidated and combined entities. red violet is a software and services company specializing in big data analysis, providing cloud-based, mission-critical solutions to enterprises in a variety of industries. red violets mission is to transform data into intelligence utilizing our proprietary technology platform to solve complex problems for our clients. Harnessing the power of data fusion and powerful analytics, we transform data into intelligence, in a fast and efficient manner, so our clients can spend their time on what matters most, running their organizations with confidence. Through our intelligent platform, CORE TM , we uncover the relevance of disparate data points utilizing our analytical capabilities to provide real-time and insightful views of people, businesses, assets and their interrelationships. We empower clients across markets and industries to better execute all aspects of their business, from managing risk, identifying fraud and abuse, and ensuring legislative compliance, to debt recovery. 13 We provide unique and compelling solutions essential to the daily workflow of organizations within both the public and private sectors. Our cloud-based data fusion platform, combined wit h our massive database consisting of public-record, proprietary and publicly-available data, as well as a unique repository of self-reported information on millions of consumers, enables the delivery of differentiated products and solutions used for a vari ety of essential functions. These essential functions include identification and authentication, and investigation and validation. Leveraging leading-edge technology, proprietary algorithms, and massive datasets, and through intuitive and powerful analytical applications, we provide solutions to organizations within the risk management industry. CORE is our next generation data fusion platform, providing mission-critical information about individuals, businesses and assets to a variety of markets and industries. Through machine learning and advanced analytics, we use the power of data fusion to ingest and analyze data at a massive scale. The derived information from the data fusion process ultimately serves to generate unique solutions for banking and financial services companies, insurance companies, healthcare companies, law enforcement and government, the collection industry, law firms, retail, telecommunications companies, corporate security and investigative firms. Built in a secure payment card industry (PCI) compliant environment, our cloud-based next generation technology delivers greater than four 9s of service uptime. By leveraging our proprietary infrastructure design within the cloud, we currently operate in six datacenters spread geographically across the U.S. and are able to dynamically and seamlessly scale as needed. Using our intelligent framework, and leveraging a microservices architecture where appropriate, we reduce operational cost and complexity, thus delivering superior performance at greatly reduced costs compared to traditional datacenter architectures. Since the release of our CORE platform in May 2016, we have added billions of data records and continue to add over a billion records per month on average. Our average query response time for a comprehensive profile is less than 250 milliseconds versus competitive platforms that measure comprehensive profile response times in seconds. From Fluents acquisition of the risk management business in September 2014 through December 2016, the majority of our operations were dedicated to the early stage development of our business model, including the development of our proprietary, cloud-based technology platform, CORE, and the buildout of our initial-phase suite of products, powered by CORE, to serve a variety of industries within risk management. Beginning January 2017, with our technology platform production ready and hardened, our initial suite of products released into the marketplace, and a multi-year product roadmap defined, we transformed from a development organization to a sales-driven organization with sales increasing from a $5.8 million annual run-rate for the month ended January 31, 2017, to a $15.1 million annual run-rate for the month ended March 31, 2018. In order for red violet to continue to develop new products, grow its existing business and expand into additional markets, we must generate and sustain sufficient operating profits and cash flow in future periods. This will require us to generate additional sales from current products and new products currently under development. We are building out our sales organization to drive current products and to introduce new products into the market place. We will incur increased compensation expenses for our sales and marketing, executive and administrative, and infrastructure related persons as we increase headcount in the next 12 months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements d i scussion and ana l ysis of financial condition and results of oper a tions are based upon red violets condensed consolidated and comb i ned financial statement s , which have been prepared in accordance with acc o un t ing principles generally a c c e pted in the Unit e d St a tes (US G A AP). The preparati o n of these financial statements requires red violet to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of ass e ts, li a bi l it i es, revenues and expenses, and r e lated disclosure of contingent a ssets and liabilities. On an ongo i ng basis, red violet evaluates its estimates, including those related to the allowance for doubtful receivables, useful lives of property and equipment and intangible ass e ts, income tax provision, and recoverability of the carrying amounts of goodwill and i n tangible assets. We base our e s timates on historical ex p e rience a n d on various other assumptions that are believed to be reason a ble under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis f or making judgments ab o ut the ca rrying valu e s of a s s e ts and l i abi l it i es t hat a r e not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these est i ma t es under di f ferent assumptions or conditions. For additional information, please refer to our 2017 Financials. There have been no material changes to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates disclosed in our 2017 Financials. Recently issued accounting standards See Note 2(b), Recently issued accounting standards, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. 14 First Quarter Financial Results For the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017: Total revenue increased 112% to $3.3 million. Net loss improved by $0.8 million to $2.1 million. Loss per share improved by $0.08 to $0.20. Adjusted gross profit increased 665% to $1.3 million. Adjusted gross margin increased to 39% from 11%. Adjusted EBITDA improved by $0.3 million to negative $1.4 million. First Quarter and Recent Business Highlights Successfully completed the spin-off of our business on March 26, 2018, with red violet operating as a NASDAQ-listed emerging growth company. Well-capitalized balance sheet, with approximately $20 million in cash as of March 31, 2018 and no debt, allowing the Company to intently focus on driving the business to profitability. With our early-stage development completed , including our proprietary, cloud-based technology platform, CORE, and our initial suite of products released into the marketplace, monthly sales increased at a CAGR of 126% from a $5.8 million annual run-rate for the month ended January 31, 2017, to a $15.1 million annual run-rate for the month ended March 31, 2018. FOREWARN, our subscription app-based solution for the real estate industry, powered by CORE, grew revenue at a CAGR of 660% in the first quarter 2018, representing an annual run-rate of $0.3 million for the month ended March 31, 2018, with no incremental cost of revenue. Fixed cost of revenue model allows for continued scaling of the business with exponential growth in adjusted gross profit, as reflected in the 28 percentage point increase in adjusted gross margin to 39% over prior year quarter. Use and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management evaluates the financial performance of our business on a variety of key indicators, including non-GAAP metrics of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin. Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure equal to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure based on US GAAP, adding back income tax, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, litigation costs, and write-off of long-lived assets, as noted in the tables below. We define adjusted gross profit as revenue less cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), and adjusted gross margin as adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2018 2017 Net loss $ (2,084 ) $ (2,893 ) Depreciation and amortization 451 216 Share-based compensation expense 165 458 Litigation costs - 504 Write-off of long-lived assets 55 - Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,413 ) $ (1,715 ) Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2018 2017 Revenue $ 3,325 $ 1,572 Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 2,017 1,401 Adjusted gross profit $ 1,308 $ 171 Adjusted gross margin 39 % 11 % We present adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin as supplemental measures of our operating performance because we believe they provide useful information to our investors as they eliminate the impact of certain items that we do not consider indicative of our cash operations and ongoing operating performance. In addition, we use them as an integral part of 15 our internal reporting to measure the performance of our business , evaluate t he performance of our senior management and measure the operating strength of our business. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are measures frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in their evaluation of the operating performance of companies similar to ours and are indicators of the operational strength of our business. Adjusted EBITDA eliminates the uneven effect of considerable amounts of non-cash depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and write-off of long-lived assets, and the impact of other items. Adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are calculated by using cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization). Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are not intended to be performance measures that should be regarded as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, either loss before income taxes or net loss as indicators of operating performance or to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. The way we measure adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and may not be identical to corresponding measures used in our various agreements. Results of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to three months ended March 31, 2017 Revenue . Revenue increased $1.7 million or 112% to $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, from $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. This increase was driven by strong growth in volume resulting from the continued staged release of our product suite, following our transformation from a development organization to a sales-driven organization beginning January 2017. During this time frame, our monthly sales increased from a $5.8 million annual run-rate for the month ended January 31, 2017, to a $15.1 million annual run-rate for the month ended March 31, 2018. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) . Cost of revenue increased $0.6 million or 43% to $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, from $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Our cost of revenue primarily includes data acquisition costs. Data acquisition costs consist primarily of the costs to acquire data either on a transactional basis or through flat-fee data licensing agreements, including unlimited usage agreements. We continue to expand our relationships with our key data suppliers, including our largest data supplier which accounted for approximately 49% of our total data acquisition costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to approximately 33% for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Other cost of revenue includes expenses related to third-party infrastructure fees. We continued to develop our baseline data repository in anticipation of completing the development of our full suite of risk management products during the development periods. As the construct of our data costs is a flat-fee, unlimited usage model, the cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased to 61% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 89% for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as a result of the scaling. We expect that cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue will continue to decrease over the coming years as our revenue increases. Historically, at scale, the industry business models cost of revenue will trend between 15% and 30% as a percentage of revenue. Sales and marketing expenses . Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.3 million or 33% to $1.1 million for three months ended March 31, 2018, from $0.8 million for three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase resulted from increased headcount as we continue to invest in the expansion of our sales organization. Sales and marketing expenses consist of salaries and benefits, advertising and marketing, traveling expenses, and share-based compensation expense, incurred by our sales team. General and administrative expenses . General and administrative expenses decreased $0.1 million or 9% to $1.9 million for three months ended March 31, 2018, from $2.0 million for three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease resulted from decreases in litigation costs and share-based compensation expense, which were partially offset by increases in employee salaries and benefits and other professional fees. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of litigation costs of $0 and $0.5 million, non-cash share-based compensation expense of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, employee salaries and benefits of $0.8 million and $0.6 million, and other professional fees of $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization . Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $0.3 million or 109% to $0.5 million for three months ended March 31, 2018, from $0.2 million for three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in depreciation and amortization for three months ended March 31, 2018 resulted from the amortization of software developed for internal use that became ready for its intended use after the first quarter of 2017. Loss before income taxes . We had a loss before income taxes of $2.1 million and $2.9 million, including non-cash share-based compensation expense of $0.2 million and $0.5 million, and depreciation and amortization of $0.5 million and $0.2 million, for three 16 months ended March 31, 201 8 and 201 7 , respectively . The de crease in loss before income tax es resulted from the increase in revenue , decrease in our cost of revenue as a percentage o f revenue, de crease s in litigation costs and share-based compensation expense, which were partially o ffset by in crease s in salaries and benefits, other professional fees and depreciation and amortization . Income taxes . Income tax benefit of $0 was recognized for three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets was recognized as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. On December 22, 2017, the tax reform legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act) was enacted, with the statutory federal income tax rate lowered to 21% among other changes, effective on January 1, 2018. As a full valuation allowance was provided as of March 31, 2018, the Act does not have any material net impact on our condensed consolidated and combined financial statements. See Note 6, Income Taxes, included in Notes to Condensed Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements, for details. Net loss . A net loss of $2.1 million and $2.9 million was recognized for three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as a result of the foregoing . Effect of Inflation The rates of inflation experienced in recent years have had no material impact on our financial statements. We attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices for our services, to the extent permitted by contracts and competition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows used in operating activities . For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in operating activities was $2.9 million, primarily the result of the net loss of $2.1 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items totaling $0.9 million, including share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, write-off of long-lived assets and allocation of expenses from Fluent, Inc. In addition, the net working capital increased $1.7 million, primarily the result of the decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and the increase in accounts receivable following the increase in revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash used in operating activities was $1.6 million, primarily the result of the net loss of $2.9 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items of an aggregate of $1.5 million, and the cash used in net working capital of $0.2 million. Net cash used in operating activities in 2017 increased by $3.7 million resulting from the factors discussed above. Cash flows used in investing activities . Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $1.4 million and $1.9 million, respectively, as a result of capitalized costs included in intangible assets of $1.4 million and $1.7 million for the corresponding periods. Cash flows provided by financing activities . Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $23.9 million (inclusive of $20.0 cash contribution by Fluent to red violet upon the Spin-off) and $3.3 million, respectively, as a result of capital contributed by Fluent during the corresponding periods. As of March 31, 2018, red violet had material commitments under certain data licensing agreements of $22.0 million. red violet anticipates funding its operations using available cash, and cash flow generated from operations within the next twelve months. red violet reported net loss of $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. As of March 31, 2018, red violet had a total shareholders equity balance of $40.3 million. As of March 31, 2018, red violet had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $19.8 million. Historically, red violet has funded its operations via intercompany transfers from Fluent on an as needed basis. Based on projections of growth in revenue and operating results in the coming year, and the available cash and cash equivalents held by red violet after the Spin-off, the Company believes that it will have sufficient cash resources to finance its operations and expected capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Subject to revenue growth, red violet may have to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity and/or debt, which, if red violet is able to obtain, could have the effect of diluting stockholders. Any equity or debt financings, if available at all, may be on terms which are not favorable to red violet. If red violets operations do not generate positive cash flow in the upcoming year, or if it is not able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on terms and conditions acceptable to it, if at all, it may be unable to implement its business plan, or even continue its operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. 17