MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following is a discussion of certain factors affecting Registrant's results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the Registrant's consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included herein under Item 7 below. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. The statements contained in the section captioned Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations which are historical are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements represent the Registrant's present expectations or beliefs concerning future events. The Registrant cautions that such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Registrant to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, the uncertainty as to the Registrant's future profitability; the uncertainty as to the demand for Registrant's services; increasing competition in the markets that Registrant conducts business; the Registrant's ability to hire, train and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the Registrant's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to finance its growth strategy; and the Registrant's ability to develop and implement operational and financial systems to manage its growth. 23 INDEX The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations The Company intends to operate its business primarily through its parent company, as described above, as well as entities that may be formed or acquired in the future. Results of Operations 2016-2015 Analysis of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Revenues For the three months ended March 31, 2016 we had $0 in revenue and $26,142 in revenue for the quarter ending March 31, 2015 a decrease of $26,142. This is a result of all the inability to sell oil due to the severe depression in the price of oil. Cost of Sales For the three months ended March 31, 2016 we had $0 in cost of revenue and $0 in cost of revenue for the quarter ending March 31, 2015. This is a result of the lack of oil sales. Operating Expenses Operating expense increased to $44,666 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $37,633 for the three months ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $7,003. The increase was attributable to increases in administrative expenses. Other income and expenses Other items of income were $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from net other income of $58,002 for the three months ended March 31, 2015, a decrease of $58,002. The decrease was due to the lack of the gain on derivative liability in the more recent period. Interest expense was $59 in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $79,906 of interest expense in the three months ended March 31, 2015, a decrease of $79,847. Net income (loss) Net Income (loss) decreased to a loss of $44,725 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from a net loss of $58,080 for the three months ended March 312, 2015, a decrease of $13,355. The three month decrease was mostly related to reduction in interest expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources On March 31, 2016 we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $1,428. At this time, those balances were not sufficient to fund our operations for extended periods into the future. The Company has acquired substantial assets in addition to forming two new subsidiaries that are expected to generate sufficient liquidity for the coming twelve months. We continually seek additional opportunities through potential acquisitions or investments. Our working capital and additional funding requirements will depend upon numerous factors to be determined on a case by case basis as these opportunities arise. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. In preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that, among other things, affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. These estimates are most significant in connection with our critical accounting policies, namely those of our accounting policies that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. These judgments often result from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following represents our critical accounting policies: 24 INDEX Going concern . Our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 with respect to this uncertainty. We have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence.