Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Form 10-Q). This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), about our expectations, beliefs, or intentions regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, strategies, or prospects. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that these statements do not relate strictly to historical or current matters. Rather, forward-looking statements relate to anticipated or expected events, activities, trends, or results as of the date they are made. Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred, these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause our actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements. These factors include those contained in this Form 10-Q, as well as the disclosures made in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 filed on February 27, 2025 (Form 10-K), and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as required by law. We intend that all forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor provisions of PSLRA. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and reflect our views as of the date they are made with respect to future events and financial performance. References in this discussion and analysis to we, us, our, red violet, or the Company, refer to Red Violet, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview Red Violet, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is dedicated to making the world a safer place and reducing the cost of doing business. We build proprietary technologies and apply analytical capabilities to deliver identity intelligence. Our technology powers critical solutions, which empower organizations to operate with confidence. Our solutions enable the real-time identification and location of people, businesses, assets, and their interrelationships. These solutions are used for purposes including identity verification, risk mitigation, due diligence, fraud detection and prevention, regulatory compliance, and customer acquisition. Our AI/ML-driven identity intelligence platform, CORETM, is purpose-built for the enterprise, yet flexible enough for organizations of all sizes, bringing clarity to massive datasets by transforming data into intelligence. We drive workflow efficiency and enable organizations to make better data-driven decisions. Organizations are challenged by the structure, volume, and disparity of data. Our platform and applications provide real-time analytics, transforming the way our customers interact with information by presenting connections and relevance of information otherwise unattainable, which drives actionable insights and better outcomes. Leveraging cloud-native proprietary technology and applying machine learning and advanced analytical capabilities, CORE provides essential solutions to public and private sector organizations through intuitive, easy-to-use analytical interfaces. With massive data assets consisting of public record, proprietary, and publicly-available data, our differentiated information and innovative platform and solutions deliver identity intelligence entities, relationships, affiliations, interactions, and events. Our solutions are used today to enable frictionless commerce, to ensure safety, and to reduce fraud and the concomitant expense borne by society. While our platform powers a vast array of solutions for our customers, we presently market our solutions primarily through two brands, IDI and FOREWARN. IDI is a leading-edge, analytics and information solutions provider delivering actionable intelligence to an expansive and diverse set of industries in support of use cases such as the verification and authentication of consumer identities, due diligence, prevention of fraud and abuse, legislative compliance, and debt recovery. idiCORE is IDI's flagship product. idiCORE is a next-generation, investigative solution used to address a variety of organizational challenges, including, but not limited to, due diligence, risk mitigation, identity authentication, and regulatory compliance, by financial services companies, insurance companies, healthcare companies, law enforcement and government, identity verification platforms, collections, law firms, retail, telecommunication companies, corporate security, and investigative firms. FOREWARN is an app-based solution currently tailored for the real estate industry, providing instant knowledge prior to face-to-face engagement with a consumer, helping professionals identify and mitigate risk. As of March 31, 2025 and 2024, IDI had 9,241 and 8,241 billable customers, respectively, and FOREWARN had 325,336 and 236,639 users, respectively. We define a billable customer of IDI as a single entity that generated revenue during the last three months of the period. Billable customers are typically corporate organizations. In most cases, corporate organizations will have multiple users and/or departments purchasing our solutions, however, we count the entire organization as a discrete customer. We define a user of FOREWARN as a unique person that has a subscription to use the FOREWARN service as of the last day of the period. A unique person can only have one user account. 13 We generate substantially all of our revenue from licensing our solutions. Customers access our solutions through a hosted environment using an online interface, batch processing, API and custom integrations. We recognize revenue from licensing fees (a) on a transactional basis determined by the customers usage, (b) via a monthly fee or (c) from a combination of both. Revenue pursuant to pricing contracts containing a monthly fee is recognized ratably over the contract period. Pricing contracts are generally annual contracts or longer, with auto renewal. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, 74% and 78% of total revenue was attributable to customers with pricing contracts, respectively, versus 26% and 22% attributable to transactional customers, respectively. We endeavor to understand our customers needs at the moment of first engagement. We continuously engage with our customers and evaluate their usage of our solutions throughout their life cycle, to maximize utilization of our solutions and, hence, their productivity. Our go-to-market strategy leverages (a) an inside sales team that cultivates relationships, and ultimately closes business, with their end-user markets, (b) a strategic sales team that provides a more personal, face-to-face approach for major accounts within certain industries, and (c) distributors, resellers, and strategic partners that have a significant foothold in many of the industries that we have not historically served, as well as to further penetrate those industries that we do serve. We employ a land and expand approach. Our sales model generally begins with a free trial followed by an initial purchase on a transactional basis or minimum-committed monthly spend. As organizations derive benefits from our solutions, we are able to expand within organizations as additional use cases are presented across departments, divisions and geographic locations and customers become increasingly reliant on our solutions in their daily workflow. In order for us to continue to develop new products, grow our existing business and expand into additional markets, we must generate and sustain sufficient operating profits and cash flow in future periods. This will require us to generate additional sales from current products and new products currently under development. We continue to build out our sales organization to drive current products and to introduce new products into the marketplace. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (US GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, useful lives of intangible assets, recoverability of the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, share-based compensation, and income tax provision. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For additional information, please refer to our Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates disclosed in our Form 10-K. Recently issued accounting standards See Note 1(b), Recently issued accounting standards, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. First Quarter Financial Results For the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024: Total revenue increased 26% to $22.0 million. Gross profit increased 37% to $15.8 million. Gross margin increased to 72% from 66%. Adjusted gross profit increased 33% to $18.3 million. Adjusted gross margin increased to 83% from 79%. Net income increased 93% to $3.4 million, which resulted in earnings of $0.25 and $0.24 per basic and diluted share, respectively. Net income margin increased to 16% from 10%. Adjusted EBITDA increased 47% to $8.4 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 38% from 32%. Adjusted net income increased 53% to $4.8 million, which resulted in adjusted earnings of $0.35 and $0.33 per basic and diluted share, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities increased 16% to $5.0 million. Cash and cash equivalents were $34.6 million as of March 31, 2025. 14 First Quarter and Recent Business Highlights Added 315 customers to IDI during the first quarter, ending the quarter with 9,241 customers. Added 21,918 users to FOREWARN during the first quarter, ending the quarter with 325,336 users. Over 545 REALTOR Associations throughout the U.S. are now contracted to use FOREWARN. Paid out a special cash dividend of $0.30 per share on our common stock to shareholders of record as of January 31, 2025. The dividend, totaling $4.2 million, was paid on February 14, 2025. Use and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management evaluates the financial performance of our business on a variety of key indicators, including non-GAAP metrics of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin, and free cash flow ("FCF"). Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure based on US GAAP, excluding interest income, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, litigation costs, and write-off of long-lived assets and others. We define adjusted EBITDA margin as adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure based on US GAAP, adjusted to exclude share-based compensation expense, and amortization of share-based compensation capitalized in intangible assets, and to include the tax effect of adjustments. We define adjusted earnings per share as adjusted net income divided by the weighted average shares outstanding. We define adjusted gross profit as gross profit plus depreciation and amortization of certain intangible assets, and adjusted gross margin as adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue. We define FCF as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by purchase of property and equipment and capitalized costs included in intangible assets. The following is a reconciliation of net income, the most directly comparable US GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 Net income $ 3,440 $ 1,784 Interest income (308 ) (365 ) Income tax expense 1,079 564 Depreciation and amortization 2,550 2,270 Share-based compensation expense 1,596 1,402 Litigation costs 9 27 Write-off of long-lived assets and others 2 7 Adjusted EBITDA $ 8,368 $ 5,689 Revenue $ 22,003 $ 17,511 Net income margin 16 % 10 % Adjusted EBITDA margin 38 % 32 % 15 The following is a reconciliation of net income, the most directly comparable US GAAP financial measure, to adjusted net income: Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in thousands, except share data) 2025 2024 Net income $ 3,440 $ 1,784 Share-based compensation expense 1,596 1,402 Amortization of share-based compensation capitalized in intangible assets 409 275 Tax effect of adjustments(1) (613 ) (308 ) Adjusted net income $ 4,832 $ 3,153 Earnings per share: Basic $ 0.25 $ 0.13 Diluted $ 0.24 $ 0.13 Adjusted earnings per share: Basic $ 0.35 $ 0.23 Diluted $ 0.33 $ 0.22 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 13,998,028 13,997,064 Diluted 14,491,713 14,164,506 (1) The tax effect of adjustments is calculated using the expected federal and state statutory tax rate. The expected federal and state income tax rate was approximately 26.00% and 25.75% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The following is a reconciliation of gross profit, the most directly comparable US GAAP financial measure, to adjusted gross profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 Revenue $ 22,003 $ 17,511 Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (3,661 ) (3,756 ) Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue (2,500 ) (2,214 ) Gross profit 15,842 11,541 Depreciation and amortization of certain intangible assets(1) 2,452 2,214 Adjusted gross profit $ 18,294 $ 13,755 Gross margin 72 % 66 % Adjusted gross margin 83 % 79 % (1) Depreciation and amortization of certain intangible assets primarily consists of the amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs, which are included within intangible assets and amortized over their estimated useful lives. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable US GAAP financial measure, to FCF: Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,001 $ 4,305 Less: Purchase of property and equipment (50 ) (65 ) Capitalized costs included in intangible assets (2,469 ) (2,327 ) Free cash flow $ 2,482 $ 1,913 16 In order to assist readers of our consolidated financial statements in understanding the operating results that management uses to evaluate the business and for financial planning purposes, we present non-GAAP measures of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin, and FCF as supplemental measures of our operating performance. We believe they provide useful information to our investors as they eliminate the impact of certain items that we do not consider indicative of our cash operations and ongoing operating performance. In addition, we use them as an integral part of our internal reporting to measure the performance and operating strength of our business. We believe adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin, and FCF are relevant and provide useful information frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in their evaluation of the operating performance of companies similar to ours and are indicators of the operational strength of our business. We believe adjusted EBITDA eliminates the uneven effect of considerable amounts of non-cash depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, and the impact of other non-recurring items, providing useful comparisons versus prior periods or forecasts. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated as adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. We believe adjusted net income provides additional means of evaluating period-over-period operating performance by eliminating certain non-cash expenses and other items that might otherwise make comparisons of our ongoing business with prior periods more difficult and obscure trends in ongoing operations. Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income, adjusted to exclude share-based compensation expense, and amortization of share-based compensation capitalized in intangible assets, and to include the tax effect of adjustments. We define adjusted earnings per share as adjusted net income divided by the weighted average shares outstanding. Our adjusted gross profit is a measure used by management in evaluating the businesss current operating performance by excluding the impact of prior historical costs of assets that are expensed systematically and allocated over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which may not be indicative of the current operating activity. We define adjusted gross profit as gross profit plus depreciation and amortization of certain intangible assets. We believe adjusted gross profit provides useful information to our investors by eliminating the impact of certain non-cash depreciation and amortization, and primarily the amortization of software developed for internal use, providing a baseline of our core operating results that allow for analyzing trends in our underlying business consistently over multiple periods. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue. We believe FCF is an important liquidity measure of the cash that is available, after capital expenditures, for operational expenses and investment in our business. FCF is a measure used by management to understand and evaluate the businesss operating performance and trends over time. FCF is calculated by using net cash provided by operating activities, less purchase of property and equipment and capitalized costs included in intangible assets. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin, and FCF are not intended to be performance measures that should be regarded as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, financial measures presented in accordance with US GAAP. In addition, FCF is not intended to represent our residual cash flow available for discretionary expenses and is not necessarily a measure of our ability to fund our cash needs. The way we measure adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin, and FCF may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and may not be identical to corresponding measures used in our various agreements. Results of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to three months ended March 31, 2024 Revenue Revenue increased $4.5 million, or 26%, to $22.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $17.5 million for the same period in 2024. The increase was driven by strong onboarding of new customers and stable recurring revenue from our existing customer base. Revenue from new customers increased $1.3 million, or 80%. Revenue from existing customers increased $3.2 million, or 20%. Revenue from new customers represents total monthly revenue generated from customers during their first six full calendar months of revenue contribution. Revenue from existing customers represents total monthly revenue generated from customers beginning in their seventh full calendar month of revenue contribution. Beginning in the first quarter of 2025, we consolidated our prior base revenue and growth revenue categories into a single revenue from existing customers metric to provide a more streamlined and meaningful view of ongoing customer contribution. 17 As of March 31, 2025, our IDI billable customer base increased to 9,241 customers, up from 8,241 customers a year earlier. Our FOREWARN user base increased to 325,336 users, up from 236,639 users a year earlier. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) decreased $0.1 million, or 3%, to $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $3.8 million for the same period in 2024. Our cost of revenue primarily consists of data acquisition costs, which includes the cost to acquire data under flat-fee licensing agreements, including unlimited usage arrangements, as well as purchases on a transactional basis. We continue to enhance the breadth and depth of our data by the addition and expansion of relationships with key data suppliers, including our largest data supplier, which accounted for 43% and 41% of our total data acquisition costs for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Additional components of our cost of revenue include cloud infrastructure fees and pertinent personnel-related costs. Due to the fixed-cost nature of our primary data licensing structure, cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased to 17% for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 21% for the same period in 2024. We expect this percentage to continue to decline over time as our revenue increases. Sales and marketing expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.7 million, or 46%, to $5.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $3.7 million for the same period in 2024. The increase reflects our continued investment in expanding our go-to-market capabilities to support long-term revenue growth. Sales and marketing expenses include personnel-related expenses, advertising, marketing and agency expenses, travel expenses, and share-based compensation expense incurred by our sales team, and provision for bad debts. The increase was primarily driven by: an increase of $1.6 million in personnel-related expenses; and an increase of $0.1 million in share-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses increased $0.4 million, or 7%, to $6.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $5.8 million for the same period in 2024. The increase reflects higher personnel-related expenses and share-based compensation expense to support the continued growth of the business. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of: personnel-related expenses of $3.1 million and $2.7 million, respectively; share-based compensation expense of $1.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively; and professional fees of $1.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $0.3 million, or 12%, to $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $2.3 million for the same period in 2024. The increase was primarily driven by the amortization of intangible assets that became ready for their intended use after March 31, 2024. Interest income Interest income decreased $0.1 million, or 16%, to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $0.4 million for the same period in 2024. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower yields on money market fund investments during the quarter. 18 Income before income taxes Income before income taxes increased $2.2 million, or 92%, to $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $2.3 million for the same period in 2024. The increase was primarily driven by: an increase of $4.5 million in revenue; and a decrease of $0.1 million in cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), partially offset by: an increase of $2.0 million in personnel-related expenses; an increase of $0.3 million in depreciation and amortization expense; and an increase of $0.2 million in share-based compensation expense. Income tax expense Income tax expense was $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $0.6 million for the same period in 2024. The increase in income tax expense was primarily attributable to higher pre-tax income, as the Companys effective tax rate remained consistent at 24% in both periods. For additional information, refer to Note 6, Income taxes, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income Net income increased $1.6 million, or 93%, to $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to $1.8 million for the same period in 2024, as a result of the foregoing. Effect of Inflation We believe that persistent inflationary pressures throughout 2024 and into the first quarter of 2025 have contributed to a more challenging macroeconomic environment, increasing recessionary concerns and prompting some businesses to moderate discretionary spending. These conditions have resulted in and may continue to contribute to fluctuations in transaction volumes, pricing dynamics, and operating margins across our services. In addition, elevated interest rates implemented to curb inflation may reduce the demand for credit, which could in turn lead to lower usage of our services by customers in the banking, financial services, and adjacent industries. Despite these broader market dynamics, inflation has not had a material impact on our financial results to date. Where feasible, we have taken proactive steps to mitigate inflation-related cost increases, including implementing pricing adjustments where permitted under contract terms and competitive conditions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows provided by operating activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities was $5.0 million. This was primarily driven by: net income of $3.4 million; non-cash adjustments totaling $5.3 million, including share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, write-off of long-lived assets, provision for bad debts, noncash lease expenses, and deferred income tax expense; and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which resulted in a net use of cash of $3.7 million, primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable and other noncurrent assets, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. 19 For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $4.3 million. This was primarily driven by: net income of $1.8 million; non-cash adjustments totaling $4.3 million, including share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, provision for bad debts, noncash lease expenses, and deferred income tax expense; and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which resulted in a net use of cash of $1.8 million, primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other noncurrent assets, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by the increase in accounts payable. Cash flows used in investing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $2.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, primarily as a result of capitalized costs included in intangible assets. Cash flows used in financing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in financing activities was $4.4 million. This was primarily driven by: the payment of a special cash dividend totaling $4.2 million; and taxes paid in connection with the net share settlement of vesting RSUs totaling $0.2 million. On December 3, 2024, we declared a special cash dividend of $0.30 per share on our common stock to shareholders of record as of January 31, 2025. The dividend, totaling $4.2 million, was paid on February 14, 2025. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $1.8 million. This was primarily driven by: common stock repurchases totaling $1.4 million, conducted pursuant to the Companys Stock Repurchase Program; and taxes paid in connection with the net share settlement of vesting RSUs totaling $0.4 million. The Stock Repurchase Program was originally authorized by the Board of Directors on May 2, 2022, permitting repurchases of up to $5.0 million of the Companys common stock. On December 19, 2023, and again on March 28, 2024, the Board approved additional authorizations of $5.0 million each, expanding the total program size. Commitments As of March 31, 2025, we had material commitments under certain data licensing agreements totaling $11.5 million. We expect to fund these commitments, as well as our ongoing operating and capital requirements, using available cash on hand and cash flows generated from operations over the next twelve months. Capital Resources We reported net income of $3.4 million and $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. As of March 31, 2025, we had total shareholders equity of $91.8 million and cash and cash equivalents of $34.6 million. Based on our projected growth in revenue and operating results over the next twelve months, and the available cash on hand, we believe that our existing resources will be sufficient to fund operations and expected capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. While we anticipate continuing to fund our business through internally generated cash flows, future capital needs may arise based on the pace of revenue growth, investment in technology, or strategic initiatives. In such cases, we may seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity and/or debt securities. However, any such financing, if available, could result in dilution to existing stockholders and may involve terms that are not favorable to the Company. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2025, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303 of Regulation S-K. 20