ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections contained herein, including the risk factors and the consolidated financial statements and the related exhibits contained herein. The various sections of this discussion contain a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this prospectus as well as other matters over which we have no control. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those set forth in this prospectus. See Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Company Overview The Company is a Nevada corporation. Effective September 13, 2016, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) through which the Company acquired Timefire, LLC, a Phoenix-based virtual reality content developer that is an Arizona Limited Liability Company. As consideration for the Merger, the Company issued the equity holders of Timefire a total of 41,400,000 shares of the Companys common stock, and 2,800,000 five year warrants exercisable at $0.58 per share for 100% of the membership interests of Timefire. As a result, the former members of Timefire owned approximately 99% of the then outstanding shares of common stock. The operations of the Company prior to the acquisition date represent the business of Timefire, LLC. Effective November 21, 2016, the Company effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split and changed our name to TimefireVR Inc. The foregoing numbers give effect to the reverse split. All references to we, our and us refer to the Company and its subsidiaries (including Timefire), unless the context otherwise indicates. Results of Operations Total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $203,640 and $6,500, respectively. The increase in revenue is due to a one-time project completed for a related party. Operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2016 amounted to $1,655,948 as compared to $386,418 for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in operating expenses is due to a significant operational ramping up post-merger. The net loss for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $3,376,775 as compared to $381,735 for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in net loss is primarily the result the post-merger operational scale up, as well as the $2,094,319 change in the value of the warrants issued to investors. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 reflects $225,379 in cash. Management is continuing to pursue financing from various sources, including private placements from investors and institutions. Management believes these efforts will contribute toward funding the Companys activities until sufficient revenue can be earned from future operations. At this time, our Company does not have a commitment from any broker/dealer to provide additional financing, and does not have sufficient working capital to support operations for the next twelve months. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available or if available, on terms that will be acceptable. 7 Going Concern The Company has incurred losses since inception and requires additional funds for future operating activities. The Companys selling activity has not reached a level of revenue sufficient to fund its operating activities. These factors create an uncertainty as to how the Company will fund its operations and maintain sufficient cash flow to operate as a going concern. The combination of these factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Companys ability to meet its cash requirements in the next year is dependent upon obtaining additional financing. If this is not achieved, the Company may be unable to obtain sufficient cash flow to fund its operations and obligations, and as a result there is substantial doubt the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, and accordingly, do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts; nor do they include adjustments to the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue operations or be required to sell its assets. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern , that requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions and events that raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the financial statements are issued or available to be issued on both an interim and annual basis. Management is required to provide certain footnote disclosures if it concludes that substantial doubt exists or when its plans alleviate substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Company adopted ASU 2014-15 in the fourth quarter of 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, which revises the guidance in ASC 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation , and will change how companies account for certain aspects of share-based payments to employees, including the income tax impact, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The guidance is effective for reporting periods (interim and annual) beginning after December 15, 2017, for public companies. The Company will adopt this guidance as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-09 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) : Simplifying the Accounting for Goodwill Impairment. ASU 2017-04 removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation. A goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting units carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. This standard, which will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, is required to be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the impact this standard will have on its financial statements. There have been no other recently issued accounting pronouncements that have had or are expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not engage in any activities involving variable interest entities or off-balance sheet arrangements. 8 RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following Risk Factors before deciding whether to invest in our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations or our financial condition. If any of the events discussed in the Risk Factors below occur, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the value and marketability of the common stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business If we are cannot complete a financing in the near future, we will be required to cease operations. We incurred a net loss of $3,376,775 during the year ended December 31, 2016. Prior to the Merger, both the Company and Timefire had histories of incurring losses. The Company incurred net losses of approximately $239,000 and 395,000 in 2015 and 2014, respectively, and Timefire incurred net losses of approximately $382,000 and $111,000 in 2015 and 2014, respectively. At the time of our Merger in September 2016, we closed on a private placement which provided gross proceeds of $1.5 million. As of April 7, 2017, we have approximately $300,000 of cash available and based on our estimated current liabilities, our working capital is approximately $285,000. We expect that we can manage our accounts payable and sustain operations until June 2017. To remain operational beyond that time, we must complete a financing. Because small companies like ours generally face more obstacles in obtaining financing, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in raising additional capital if needed. Further, if we complete a financing it may be very dilutive to shareholders. Our ability to continue as a going concern is in doubt unless we obtain adequate new debt or equity financing and achieve sufficient sales levels. As noted above, we have incurred significant net losses to date. We anticipate that we will continue to lose money for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have negative cash flows from operations. Our continued existence is dependent upon generating sufficient working capital and obtaining adequate new debt or equity financing. Because of our continuing losses, without improvements in our cash flow from operations or new financing, we may have to continue to restrict our expenditures. Working capital limitations may impinge on our day-to-day operations, which may contribute to continued operating losses. Because we will not meet the conditions required to trigger the forced exercise provisions of the warrants sold in our September 2016 private placement, we will not be able to force the holders to exercise and provide us with needed cash. Warrants issued in our September 2016 private placement offering contained a provision through which the Company could require holders to either exercise their warrants or tender them for cancellation along with certain other preferred securities, subject to the Company meeting certain requirements, including minimum volume and price thresholds for its common stock on the OTCQB. While the Company was not permitted to utilize the forced exercise provisions until March 2017, the Company does not presently meet the volume requirements and management does not believe it is likely that the volume requirements will be met in the future. Further, even if the Company met all the requirements to utilize the forced exercise mechanism, the Company could not guarantee that holders would choose to exercise their warrants rather than submit them for cancellation. Therefore, the Company cannot rely, and investors should not rely, on the exercise of these warrants as a means for providing financing to the Company. Because our management team has been in place for a very short period, it may be difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risk of success or failure of our business. Jeffrey Rassas, our Chief Executive Officer, and John Wise, our President, have only served on our management team since September 2016, although they have each served on the management committee of Timefire since 2014. In addition, while Timefire has been in existence and pursuing its business objectives since January 2014, our Company has only existed in its present corporate structure since the Merger. These limited time periods make it difficult to project whether our management team and operations will be successful. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not become profitable. Businesses which grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. If we continue to grow as rapidly as we anticipate, we will need to expand our management by recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully. Our failure to meet these challenges could cause us to lose money, and your investment could be lost. If we lose the services of key personnel, it could adversely affect our business. Hypatia was initially conceived by our President, John Wise, and its continued development is heavily dependent on his ongoing vision and direction. If we were to lose his services, it would pose significant difficulties to the timely and successful launch of Hypatia and the development of future TimefireVR products and services. In addition, it could be costly and time-consuming to identify individuals to replace him and our other executive officers if they were to leave, and our operations would be adversely affected. We do not have life insurance covering Mr. Wise or our other officers. Because we will operate in a new and rapidly changing industry, it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our business and prospects. Virtual reality, or VR, through which we expect to derive substantially all of our revenue, is a new and rapidly evolving technology. The growth of the virtual reality industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our primary product, Hypatia, are subje ct to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors affecting the VR industry, many of which are beyond our control, including: continued worldwide growth in the adoption and use of VR products, related hardware, and related social networks; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; the worldwide growth of personal computer, broadband Internet and mobile device users, and the rate of any such growth; and general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending. Our ability to plan for VR development, distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in the tastes and preferences of our current and potential users. New and different types of entertainment may increase in popularity at the expense of VR. A decline in the popularity of virtual reality in general or our products in particular would harm our business and prospects. In addition, any major shift in equipment platforms which we fail to anticipate would also adversely affect our business. Because we intend to rely on a single product, Hypatia, to generate all of our revenue, we must continue to launch and enhance Hypatia features and services and attract a significant number of users in order to grow our revenues and sustain our competitive position. Our ability to successfully launch, sustain and expand the Hypatia VR world and attract and retain users, including participants in the fee-generating components, largely will depend on our ability to: complete development of Hypatia; respond to bugs and possible early user concerns with the alpha and beta versions of Hypatia; accelerate the development of Hypatia to a point where we can launch a version we can monetize; anticipate and effectively respond to changing consumer interests and preferences; attract, retain and motivate talented designers, product managers and engineers; develop, sustain and expand features and products that are fun, interesting and compelling to use; effectively market new products and enhancements to our existing users and new users; minimize launch delays and cost overruns on new products and expansions; minimize downtime and other technical difficulties; and anticipate and adapt to new equipment platforms. Hypatia has not yet generated revenues as of the date of this report, and we cannot offer any assurances as to if, or when, it will begin to generate revenues. 9 If we experience any failure or significant interruption in the performance of our network, our operations and business could be negatively impacted. Our technology infrastructure is critical to the performance of our VR platform and to user satisfaction. Our VR platform will run on a complex distributed system, or what is commonly known as cloud computing. We anticipate that the primary elements of this system will be operated by third parties that we do not control and which would require significant time to replace. We may experience website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors and capacity constraints. A failure or significant interruption in our service would harm our reputation and operations. We expect to continue to make significant investments to our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of user experience and product performance. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and operating results may suffer. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. If we are the target of security breaches, computer viruses and computer hacking attacks, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract new users. If we are unable to develop successful apps for mobile platforms, our growth prospects could suffer. Developing Hypatia apps for mobile platforms is an important component of our strategy. We expect to devote substantial resources to the development of our mobile apps, and we cannot guarantee that our apps will appeal to users or advertisers. As discussed further below, the VR mobile platform is currently outperforming the headset platform with respect to accessible content, and presently the number of mobile platform users far exceeds the number of headset users. The uncertainties w e face include: we have relatively limited experience working with wireless carriers, mobile platform providers and other partners whose cooperation we may need in order to be successful; we may encounter difficulty in integrating features on apps developed for mobile platforms that a sufficient number of users will pay for; and we will need to move beyond payment methods provided by social networks and successfully allow for a variety of payment methods and systems based on the mobile platform, geographies and other factors. These and other uncertainties make it difficult to know whether we will succeed in developing commercially viable apps for mobile. If we do not succeed in doing so, our growth prospects will suffer. If high-quality stand-alone VR headsets do not become significantly less expensive, it may harm our ability to grow our user base, and our business may be adversely affected. While VR headsets that work with mobile phones, such as Google Cardboard or Samsung Gear VR, presently retail below $100, stand-alone headsets such as Playstation VR, HTC Vive, and Oculus Rift presently retail in the range of $300-$800. According to SuperData Research, Inc., approximately 89 million VR equipment platforms were sold in 2016, the vast majority of which were for use with mobile phones. Of the units sold, nearly 87 million were for use with mobile phones, and approximately 84 million were Google Cardboard units. While Google Cardboard is the least expensive VR platform presently available, with a retail price of around $15 as of the date of this prospectus, it does not offer many of the features and the higher quality performance of the more expensive platforms. Some users have reported a disorienting or unpleasant experience while using lower-priced VR systems. Therefore, VR users are faced with a trade-off between affordability and a more immersive experience. If an insufficient number of Hypatias potential users can afford stand-alone headsets, and if Hypatia is less enjoyable on a mobile platform, we may be unable to grow our business and generate sufficient revenues. Because competition within the broader entertainment industry is intense and our potential users may be attracted to competing forms of entertainment such as offline and traditional online apps, television, movies and sports, as well as other entertainment options on the Internet, we may have difficulty generating revenues. Our potential users face a vast array of entertainment choices. Other forms of entertainment, such as offline, traditional online, personal computer and console apps, television, movies, sports and the Internet, are much larger and more well-established markets and may be perceived by our potential users to offer greater variety, affordability, interactivity and enjoyment. These other forms of entertainment compete for the discretionary time and income of our potential users. If we are unable to sustain sufficient interest in our products in comparison to other forms of entertainment, including new forms of entertainment, our business model may not be viable. Because competition in the VR industry is intense and many potential competitors have vastly greater resources, we may have difficulty developing products that attract sufficient market share to generate the revenues we need to be successful. The VR industry is highly competitive and we expect more companies to enter the sector and a wider range of social apps to be introduced. Our competitors that develop social apps for social networks vary in size and include publicly-traded companies such as Alphabet Inc. (parent of Google Inc.), Microsoft Corporation, Apple Inc. (including through its acquisition of Metaio GmbH) and Nokia Corporation, and privately-held companies such as Altspace VR Inc., Linden Research, Inc., (doing business as Linden Lab); UK-based Starship Group, High Fidelity, Inc., VRChat LLC, and VR Life S.L. Some of these current and potential competitors have significant resources for developing or acquiring additional apps, may be able to incorporate their own strong brands and assets into their apps, have a more diversified set of revenue sources than we do and may be less severely affected by changes in consumer preferences, regulations or other developments that may impact the VR industry. In addition, we have limited experience in developing apps for mobile and other platforms and our ability to succeed on those platforms is uncertain. As we continue to devote significant resources to developing apps for those platforms, we will face significant competition from established companies, including Google, Microsoft, Apple and Nokia. We expect new VR competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing apps and applications. The value of our virtual goods is highly dependent on how we manage the economies in our products. If we fail to manage these economies properly, our business may suffer. 10 If we fail to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or if the costs involved in protecting and defending these rights are prohibitively high, our business and operating results may suffer. We regard the protection of our trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, domain names and other product rights as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, these contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We will pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States as we continue to grow and launch our products. We will seek to protect our trademarks, patents and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our innovations through increased patent filings that are expensive and time-consuming and may not result in issued patents that can be effectively enforced. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (the Leahy-Smith Act) was adopted in September 2011. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. One of the key provisions of this law, changing the U.S. patent registry from a first to invent to a first inventor to file system, has only been effective since March 2013, and the effects of this change on small businesses like ours are not yet clear. It is remains possible that the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation will increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of issued patents, all of which could harm our business. If we are required to sue third parties who we allege are violating our intellectual property rights, or if we are sued for violating a third partys patents or other intellectual property rights, we may incur substantial expenses, and we could incur substantial damages, including amounts we cannot afford to pay. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Patent and intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and beyond our ability to pay. While third parties do, under certain circumstances, finance litigation for companies that file suit, we cannot assure you we could find a third party to finance any claim we choose to pursue. Moreover, third parties do not finance companies that are sued. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs, adverse publicity or diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be harmed. From time to time, we may face allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including from our competitors and inactive entities. Patent and other intellectual property litigation may be protracted and expensive, and the results are difficult to predict. As the result of any court judgment or settlement we may be obligated to cancel the launch of a new feature or product, stop offering certain features or products, pay royalties or significant settlement costs, purchase licenses or modify our apps and features while we develop substitutes. In addition, we use open source software in our products and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may face claims from companies that incorporate open source software into their products, claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the source code, the open source software and/or derivative works that were developed using such software, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results. If our users discover programming errors or flaws in our VR platform, it could harm our reputation or decrease market acceptance of our VR platform and negatively impact our operating results. Initial versions of our VR platform may contain errors, bugs, flaws or corrupted data, particularly as we launch our new VR platform and rapidly release new features under tight time constraints. While we will perform extensive testing and launch trial phases of our products before full-scale commercial launch, these defects may only become apparent after full commercial launch. We believe that if our users have a negative experience with our products, they may be less inclined to continue or resume playing our products or recommend our products to other potential users. Undetected programming errors, game defects and data corruption can disrupt our operations, adversely affect the experience of our users, harm our reputation, cause our users to stop engaging with our products, divert our resources and delay market acceptance of our products, any of which could result in legal liability to us or harm our operating results. Evolving regulations concerning data privacy may result in increased regulation and different industry standards, which could prevent us from providing our current products to our users, or require us to modify our products, thereby harming our business. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the Internet and mobile platforms have recently come under increased public scrutiny, and civil claims alleging liability for the breach of data privacy have been asserted against companies like ours. The U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning consumer behavior on the Internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain targeted advertising practices. In addition, the European Union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies with users in Europe. Various government and consumer agencies have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. In addition, our business could be adversely affected if laws or regulations are adopted, interpreted, or implemented in a manner that is inconsistent with our current business practices and that require changes to these practices, the design of our website, products, features or our privacy policy. In particular, the success of our business has been, and we expect will continue to be, driven by our ability to responsibly use the data that our users share with us. Therefore, our business could be harmed by any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the use or disclosure of data our users choose to share with us, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of users for such use and disclosure is obtained. Such changes may require us to modify our products and features, possibly in a material manner, and may limit our ability to develop new products and features that make use of the data that our users voluntarily share with us. Because we will process and store some of the personal information of our users, including credit card and other payment information, we are potentially vulnerable to s ecurity breaches resulting in the theft of confidential information, which would adversely affect our business. We will receive, store and process personal information and other user data, and we enable our users to share their personal information with each other and with third parties, including on the Internet and mobile platforms. There are numerous federal, state and local laws around the world regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other user data on the Internet and mobile platforms, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. Compliance with these rules may be costly. Further, while we will take steps to protect our users confidential information from misuse and theft, we cannot guarantee that our electronic systems for storing and processing personal and credit card information will not be vulnerable to security breaches. Our own errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could also result in a breach of user privacy. If our users confidential information is stolen or inadvertently disseminated, we may become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions or invasions of privacy. In addition, we could face in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal or administrative actions by state attorneys general, private litigants, and federal regulators. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, may harm our reputation, discourage users and potential users, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Because we will be dependent on certain third party vendors for key services, we are vulnerable to disruptions in the supply of these services which are beyond our control, and which could harm our operations. The Company will depend on a number of third parties to supply key elements of the VR technology, particularly content and information services. We cannot be certain that any of these providers will be willing and able to continue to provide these services in an efficient and cost-effective manner or that they will be willing or able to meet our evolving needs. If our potential vendors and/or content providers fail to meet their obligations, provide poor, inaccurate or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of these services, we may fail, in turn, to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our users and our business, financial condition and our operating results could be materially harmed. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Because our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, brokers cannot generally solicit the purchase of our common stock, which adversely affects its liquidity and market price. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has adopted regulations which generally define penny stock to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock on the OTCQB is presently less than $5.00 per share and therefore we are considered a penny stock according to SEC rules. Further, we do not expect our stock price to rise above $5.00 in the immediate future. The penny stock designation requires any broker-dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules limit the ability of broker-dealers to solicit purchases of our common stock and therefore reduce the liquidity of the public market for our shares. Moreover, as a result of apparent regulatory pressure from the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a growing number of broker-dealers decline to permit investors to purchase and sell or otherwise make it difficult to sell shares of penny stocks. The penny stock designation may continue to have a depressive effect upon our common stock price. Because of their share ownership, our management may be able to exert control over us to the detriment of minority shareholders. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 75% of our common stock (including our President, John Wise, who beneficially owns approximately 69% of our outstanding common stock). These shareholders acting together, or even Mr. Wise acting alone, would be able to control our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing our change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock. For more information see page 20. If our common stock becomes subject to a chill imposed by the Depository Trust Company, or DTC, your ability to sell your shares may be limited. The DTC acts as a depository or nominee for street name shares that investors deposit with their brokers. DTC in the last several years has increasingly imposed a chill or freeze on the deposit, withdrawal and transfer of common stock of issuers whose common stock trades on the tiers of the OTC Markets. Depending on the type of restriction, a chill or freeze can prevent shareholders from buying or selling shares and prevent companies from raising money. A chill or freeze may remain imposed on a security for a few days or an extended period of time (in at least one instance a number of years). While we have no reason to believe a chill or freeze will be imposed against our common stock again in the future, if it were your ability to sell your shares would be limited. In such event, your investment will be adversely affected. Due to factors beyond our control, our stock price may be volatile. Any of th e following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: Difficulties with the alpha or beta versions of Hypatia; Our failure to launch Hypatia on our previously announced timeline or with previously announced features; Our public disclosure of the terms of any financing which we consummate in the future; Our failure to generate increasing material revenues; Our failure to become profitable; Our failure to raise working capital; Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new services, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; Our failure to meet financial analysts performance expectations; Changes in earnings estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; The sale of large numbers of shares of common stock which we have registered; Short selling activities; or Changes in market valuations of similar companies. In the past, following periods of volatil ity in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our managements time and attention, which would otherwise be used to benefit our business. Because we may issue preferred stock without the approval of our shareholders and have other anti-takeover defenses, it may be more difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress our stock price . In general, our Board may issue, without a vote of our shareholders, one or more additional series of preferred stock that have more than one vote per share, although the Companys ability to designate and issue preferred stock is currently restricted by covenants under our agreements with prior investors. Without these restrictions, our Board could issue preferred stock to investors who support us and our management and give effective control of our business to our management. Additionally, issuance of preferred stock could block an acquisition resulting in both a drop in our stock price and a decline in interest of our common stock. This could make it more difficult for shareholders to sell their common stock. This could also cause the market price of our common stock shares to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. Because we cannot raise capital from conventional bank financing, shareholders will be diluted in the future as a result of the issuance of additional securities. To meet our working capital needs, we expect to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into common stock from time to time, which could result in substantial dilution to investors. Investors should anticipate being substantially diluted based upon the current condition of the capital and credit markets and their impact on small companies. Because we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms, it could have a material impact upon the price of our common stock. It is not likely that securities analysts of major brokerage firms will provide research coverage for our common stock since these firms cannot recommend the purchase of our common stock under the penny stock rules referenced in an earlier risk factor. The absence of such coverage limits the likelihood that an active market will develop for our common stock. It may also make it more difficult for us to attract new investors at times when we require additional capital. Since we intend to retain any earnings for development of our business for the foreseeable future, you will likely not receive any dividends for the foreseeable future. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future, as we intend to retain any earnings for development and expansion of our business operations. As a result, you will not receive any dividends on your investment for an indefinite period of time.