Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Form 10-Q). This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act), about our expectations, beliefs, or intentions regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, strategies, or prospects. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that these statements do not relate strictly to historical or current matters. Rather, forward-looking statements relate to anticipated or expected events, activities, trends, or results as of the date they are made. Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred, these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause our actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements. These factors include those contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the disclosures made in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on March 7, 2019 (2018 Form 10-K), and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as required by law. We intend that all forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor provisions of PSLRA. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and reflect our views as of the date they are made with respect to future events and financial performance. In order for us to continue to develop new products, grow our existing business and expand into additional markets, we must generate and sustain sufficient operating profits and cash flow in future periods. This will require us to generate additional sales from current products and new products currently under development. We are building out our sales organization to drive current products and to introduce new products into the market place. We will incur increased compensation expenses relating to our sales and marketing, support, administrative, infrastructure, and engineering-related personnel as we increase headcount in the next 12 months. References in this discussion and analysis to we, us, our, red violet, or the Company, refer to Red Violet, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are dedicated to making the world a safer place and reducing the cost of doing business. We specialize in big data analysis, providing cloud-based, mission-critical solutions to enterprises in a variety of industries. Through our intelligent platform, CORE TM , we uncover the relevance of disparate data points utilizing our analytical capabilities to provide real-time and insightful views of people, businesses, assets and their interrelationships. Leveraging proprietary technology and applying machine learning and advanced analytic and decision-making capabilities, CORE provides compelling solutions to public and private sector organizations through intuitive, easy-to-use analytical applications. We empower clients across markets and industries to better execute all aspects of their business, from managing risk, recovering debt, identifying fraud and abuse, and ensuring legislative compliance, to identifying and acquiring customers. With a massive data repository of approximately nine petabytes of public-record, proprietary and publicly-available data, as well as self-reported consumer information and behavioral signals, we transform data into intelligence for our customers to enable better data-driven decisioning. We presently market our solutions primarily through two brands, idiCORE, our flagship product, and FOREWARN . idiCORE is a next-generation, investigative solution used to address a variety of organizational challenges including due diligence, risk mitigation, identity authentication and legislative compliance, by financial services companies, insurance companies, healthcare companies, law enforcement and government, the collection industry, law firms, retail, telecommunication companies, corporate security and investigative firms. FOREWARN is an app-based solution currently tailored for the real estate industry, providing instant knowledge prior to face-to-face engagement with a consumer, helping professionals identify and mitigate risk. As of March 31, 2019, idiCORE had over 4,000 customers and FOREWARN had over 15,400 users. We generate substantially all of our revenue from licensing our solutions. Customers access our solutions through a hosted environment using an online interface, batch processing, API and custom integrations. We recognize revenue from licensing fees (a) on a transactional basis determined by the customers usage, (b) via a monthly fee or (c) from a combination of both. Revenue pursuant to pricing contracts containing a monthly fee is recognized ratably over the contract period. Pricing contracts are generally annual contracts or longer, with auto renewal. Revenue from pricing contracts represented 67% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019. 14 Our go-to-market strategy leverages (a) an inside sales team that c ultivates relationships, and ultimately closes business, with their end-user markets, (b) a strategic sales team that provides a more personal, face-to-face approach for major accounts within certain industries, and (c) distributors, resellers, and strateg ic partners that have a significant foothold in many of the industries that we have not historically served, as well as to further penetrate those industries that we do serve. Our sales model generally begins with a free trial followed by an initial purcha se on a transactional basis or minimum - committed monthly spend. As organizations derive benefit from our solutions, we are able to land and expand within larger organizations as additional use cases expand across departments, divisions and geographic loc ations and customers become increasingly reliant on our solutions in their daily workflow. On March 26, 2018, Fluent, Inc. (Fluent) spun off its risk management business by way of a distribution of all of the shares of common stock of its then wholly-owned subsidiary, red violet, to its stockholders as of the record date and certain warrant holders (the Spin-off). Upon the Spin-off, red violet owned Fluent subsidiaries that previously operated Fluents risk management business, and red violet became an independent public company. For periods prior to the Spin-off, these financial statements were prepared on a consolidated and combined basis because certain of the entities were under common control. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements d i scussion and ana l ysis of financial condition and results of oper a tions are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statement s , which have been prepared in accordance with acc o un t ing principles generally a c c e pted in the Unit e d St a tes (US G A AP). The preparati o n of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of ass e ts, li a bi l it i es, revenues and expenses, and r e lated disclosure of contingent a ssets and liabilities. On an ongo i ng basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the allowance for doubtful accounts, useful lives of property and equipment and intangible ass e ts, recoverability of the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, share-based compensation and income tax provision. We base our e s timates on historical ex p e rience a n d on various other assumptions that are believed to be reason a ble under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis f or making judgments ab o ut the ca rrying valu e s of a s s e ts and l i abi l it i es t hat a r e not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these est i ma t es under di f ferent assumptions or conditions. For additional information, please refer to our 2018 Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates disclosed in our 2018 Form 10-K. Recently issued accounting standards See Note 1(b), Recently issued accounting standards, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. First Quarter Financial Results For the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018: Total revenue increased 72% to $5.7 million. Net loss improved by $0.7 million to $1.4 million. Loss per share improved by $0.07 to $0.13. Adjusted gross profit increased 134% to $3.1 million. Adjusted gross margin increased to 53% from 39%. Adjusted EBITDA improved by $1.0 million to negative $0.4 million. Use and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management evaluates the financial performance of our business on a variety of key indicators, including non-GAAP metrics of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin. Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure equal to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure based on US GAAP, excluding interest income, net, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, litigation costs and write-off of long-lived assets, as noted in the tables below. We define adjusted gross profit as revenue less cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), and adjusted gross margin as adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue. 15 Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2019 2018 Net loss $ (1,378 ) $ (2,084 ) Interest income, net (40 ) - Depreciation and amortization 618 451 Share-based compensation expense 274 165 Litigation costs 94 - Write-off of long-lived assets 30 55 Adjusted EBITDA $ (402 ) $ (1,413 ) Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2019 2018 Revenue $ 5,734 $ 3,325 Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 2,669 2,017 Adjusted gross profit $ 3,065 $ 1,308 Adjusted gross margin 53 % 39 % We present adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin as supplemental measures of our operating performance because we believe they provide useful information to our investors as they eliminate the impact of certain items that we do not consider indicative of our cash operations and ongoing operating performance. In addition, we use them as an integral part of our internal reporting to measure the performance of our business, evaluate the performance of our senior management and measure the operating strength of our business. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are measures frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in their evaluation of the operating performance of companies similar to ours and are indicators of the operational strength of our business. Adjusted EBITDA eliminates the uneven effect of considerable amounts of non-cash depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and the impact of other items. Adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are calculated by using cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization). Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are not intended to be performance measures that should be regarded as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, either loss before income taxes or net loss as indicators of operating performance or to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. The way we measure adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and may not be identical to corresponding measures used in our various agreements. Results of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to three months ended March 31, 2018 Revenue . Revenue increased $2.4 million or 72% to $5.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. This increase was driven by strong growth in volume from onboarding of new customers and usage from existing customers. Our idiCORE billable customer base grew from approximately 2,900 customers as of March 31, 2018 to 4,000 customers as of March 31, 2019. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) . Cost of revenue increased $0.7 million or 32% to $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Our cost of revenue primarily includes data acquisition costs. Data acquisition costs consist primarily of the costs to acquire data either on a transactional basis or through flat-fee data licensing agreements, including unlimited usage agreements. We continue to expand our relationships with our key data suppliers, including our largest data supplier which accounted for approximately 41% of our total data acquisition costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to approximately 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Other cost of revenue items include expenses related to third-party infrastructure fees. As the construct of our data costs is primarily a flat-fee, unlimited usage model, the cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased to 47% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from 61% for the three months ended March 31, 2018. We expect that cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue will continue to decrease over the coming years as our revenue increases. Historically, at scale, the industry business models cost of revenue will trend between 15% and 30% as a percentage of revenue. 16 Sales and marketing expenses . Sales and marketing expenses in creased $0. 4 million or 38 % to $1. 5 million for the three months ended March 31 , 201 9 from $1. 1 million for the three months ended March 31 , 201 8 . Sales and marketing expenses consist of s alaries and benefits, advertising and marketing, traveling expenses, and share-based compensation expense, incurred by our sales team , and provision for (recovery of) bad debts . T he increase in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily attributab le to the increase in salaries and benefits result ing from increased headcount as we continue to invest in the expansion of our sales organization , and the increase in provision for bad debts. General and administrative expenses . General and administrative expenses increased $0.5 million or 28% to $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of employee salaries and benefits of $1.0 million and $0.8 million, share-based compensation expense of $0.2 million and $0.1 million, and professional fees of $0.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization . Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $0.1 million or 37% to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase in depreciation and amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2019 resulted from the amortization of software developed for internal use that became ready for its intended use after the first quarter of 2018. Loss before income taxes . We had a loss before income taxes of $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease in loss before income taxes resulted from the increase in revenue and the decrease in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue, which were partially offset by the increases in salaries and benefits, professional fees and depreciation and amortization. Income taxes . Income tax expense of $0 was recognized for three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. A full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets was recognized as of March 31, 2019 and 2018. See Note 6, Income Taxes, included in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for details. Net loss . A net loss of $1.4 million was recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as a result of the foregoing . Effect of Inflation The rates of inflation experienced in recent years have had no material impact on our financial statements. We attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices for our services, to the extent permitted by contracts and competition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows used in operating activities . For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in operating activities was $1.2 million, primarily the result of the net loss of $1.4 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items (consisting of share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, write-off of long-lived assets, provision for (recovery of) bad debts and noncash lease expenses) totaling $1.2 million, and the cash used in net working capital of $1.0 million, primarily the result of the increase in accounts receivable, following the increase in revenue, and prepaid expenses and other current assets, and the decrease in operating lease liabilities. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in operating activities was $2.8 million, primarily the result of the net loss of $2.1 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items of an aggregate of $0.9 million, and the cash used in net working capital of $1.7 million, primarily the result of the increase in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other current assets, and the decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Cash flows used in investing activities . Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $1.4 million, primarily as a result of capitalized costs included in intangible assets for the corresponding periods. Cash flows provided by financing activities . Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $23.9 million (inclusive of the $20.0 million cash contribution by Fluent to red violet upon the Spin-off) as a result of capital contributed by Fluent during the corresponding period. We had no cash flows used in/provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019. As of March 31, 2019, we had material commitments under certain data licensing agreements of $20.3 million. We anticipate funding our operations using available cash and cash flow generated from operations within the next twelve months. We reported net loss of $1.4 million and $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, we had a total shareholders equity balance of $35.3 million. 17 As of March 31 , 201 9 , we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $ 7 . 3 million. Based on projections of growth in revenue and operating results in the next twelve months, and the available cash and cash equivalents held by us, we believe that we will have sufficient cash resources to finance our operations and expected capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Subject to revenue growth, we may ha ve to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity and/or debt, which, if we are able to obtain, could have the effect of diluting stockholders. Any equity or debt financings, if available at all, may be on terms which are not favorable to us. I f our operations do not generate positive cash flow in the upcoming year, or if we are not able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all, we may be unable to implement our business plan, or even cont inue our operations . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. 18