ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management's Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with TimefireVR Inc. financial statements and the related notes thereto. The Management's Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, cryptocurrency business, business objectives, and intentions of pursuing business in the cryptocurrency area. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Report on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors. Investors should review the Risk Factors in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Except as required by U.S. securities laws, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial data included elsewhere in this 10-Q. See also the notes to our consolidated financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. OVERVIEW The Company is a Nevada corporation incorporated on April 10, 2002. On November 21, 2016, we changed our name to TimefireVR, Inc. We are currently in the process of changing our name to TeraForge Ventures Inc., subject to shareholder approval. Effective September 13, 2016, the Company acquired TLLC, a Phoenix-based virtual reality content developer. As consideration for the Merger Agreement, the Company issued the equity holders of TLLC a total of 41,400,000 shares of the Company's common stock and 2,800,000 five-year warrants. On January 3, 2018, the Company effected the sale of TLLC to a group which included its former owners including two of our former executive officers and directors. The Company received: (i) $100,000 in cash and (ii) a secured promissory note in the principal amount of $120,000 bearing 6% annual interest that matures in September 2018. Additionally, the buyers of TLLC assumed certain of the Companys liabilities totaling approximately $558,054. The Companys business model in the virtual reality business was not successful and the Company was unable to continue to finance its business due to a loss of confidence in the virtual reality business by the Companys investors and threats of resignation from the Companys officers, directors and lead technologist and TLLC employees. While shareholder approval was required by Nevada law, the purchasers refused to fund TLLC unless we closed immediately. Certain investors that had financed the Company had agreed to provide further funding if we sold TLLC and received a release from key liabilities including past due promissory notes. Rather than cease operations and have no working capital, we adhered to the TLLC purchasers' demands and closed the sale. Pending finalization of the sale of TLLC over the year-end holidays, investors lent us approximately $669,000 on December 21, 2017 and cancelled past due notes held by the investors on January 3, 2018 as explained in the following paragraph. Because we needed to eliminate state law liabilities, we opted to get irrevocable proxies which would permit us to seek shareholder ratification. We have filed a preliminary proxy statement which has not yet been finalized. We expect to file an amendment by mid-May 2018. Effective January 3, 2018, the Company entered into an exchange agreement with certain of the Companys investors pursuant to which the Company issued 303,714 shares of the Companys new Convertible Series E Preferred Stock in exchange for the cancellation of the Companys Series A, Series A-1, Series C, the March 2017 Notes, the August 2017 Notes, and certain of the Companys outstanding Warrants. This exchange had the effect of simplifying our capital structure and eliminating past due secured debt while substantially increasing future potential dilution. On March 6, 2018, we borrowed $1 million from these same investors and issued them $1,052,632 of the 2018 Notes which are due on April 15, 2019. The 2018 Notes pay 8% per annum interest and are convertible at $0.03 per share. On the maturity date, we must pay 120% of the principal of the 2018 Notes. The 2018 Notes are secured by a first lien on the Company's assets. On March 6, 2018, the investors extended their October 2017 Notes and December 2017 Notes to April 15, 2019. On January 3, 2018, we announced our entry into the cryptocurrency business. The Companys current business is focused on the mining of bitcoin from a location in Brooklyn, NY. The Company is expanding that business and looking at other locations. In order to enter the cryptocurrency mining business, we entered into the Advisory Agreement with two parties on March 16, 2018. See Note 7. 18 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 The following discussion analyzes our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The following information should be considered together with our financial statements for such period and the accompanying notes thereto. Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $0. Operating expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 amounted to $636,505 as compared to $450,772 (net of loss from discontinued operations) for the quarter ended March 31, 2017. This was primarily due to increased officer compensation and professional fees expense. The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $452,078 as compared to a net income of $1,428,692 for the quarter ended March 31, 2017. This difference is primarily due to the change in fair value of derivative, which created a non-cash gain for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary source of liquidity has been from the issuances of debt financing. The primary uses of cash are payroll related expenses and professional fees. Our balance sheet as of March 31, 2018 reflects $1,161,773 in cash. As of May 15, 2018, the Company had approximately $795,000 in cash. Management is continuing to pursue financing from various sources, including private placements from investors and institutions. We do not have capital to satisfy our estimated needs for the next 12 months. Because of the uncertainty regarding the cryptocurrency business costs as well as the sums we owe our principal lenders, we cannot predict, with certainty, the outcome of our actions to generate liquidity, including the availability of additional debt financing, or whether such actions would generate enough liquidity. At this time, our Company does not have a commitment from any party to provide additional financing. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available or if available, on terms that will be acceptable. Any financing will be extremely dilutive to our common shareholders. If we cannot obtain financing, we will cease operations. Going Concern The Company has incurred losses since inception and requires additional funds for future operating activities. The Companys selling activity has not reached a level of revenue sufficient to fund its operating activities. These factors create an uncertainty as to how the Company will fund its operations and maintain sufficient cash flow to operate as a going concern. The combination of these factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. 19