Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Form 10-Q). This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act), about our expectations, beliefs, or intentions regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations, strategies, or prospects. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that these statements do not relate strictly to historical or current matters. Rather, forward-looking statements relate to anticipated or expected events, activities, trends, or results as of the date they are made. Because forward-looking statements relate to matters that have not yet occurred, these statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause our actual activities or results to differ materially from the activities and results anticipated in forward-looking statements, including the impact of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic on our operating results. These factors include those contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the disclosures made in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed on March 12, 2020 (2019 Form 10-K), and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as required by law. We intend that all forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor provisions of PSLRA. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and reflect our views as of the date they are made with respect to future events and financial performance. To the extent that our business is negatively impacted due to a variety of factors, including the impact of Covid-19 on our operating results, we may implement longer-term cost reduction efforts in order to mitigate such impacts. References in this discussion and analysis to we, us, our, red violet, or the Company, refer to Red Violet, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview Red Violet, Inc. (we, us, our, red violet, or the Company) , a Delaware corporation, is dedicated to making the world a safer place and reducing the cost of doing business. We specialize in data fusion and analytics, providing cloud-based, mission-critical solutions to enterprises with use cases including fraud detection, risk mitigation, due diligence and marketing. Through our intelligent platform, CORE TM , we uncover the relevance of disparate data points utilizing our analytical capabilities to provide real-time and insightful views of people, businesses, assets and their interrelationships. Leveraging proprietary technology and applying machine learning and advanced analytical and decision-making capabilities, CORE provides compelling solutions to public and private sector organizations through intuitive, easy-to-use analytical applications. We empower clients across markets and industries to better execute all aspects of their business, from managing risk, recovering debt, identifying fraud and abuse, and ensuring legislative compliance, to identifying and acquiring customers. With a massive data repository of approximately nine petabytes of public-record, proprietary and publicly-available data, as well as self-reported consumer information and behavioral signals, we transform data into intelligence for our customers to enable better data-driven decisioning. We presently market our solutions primarily through two brands, idiCORE, our flagship product, and FOREWARN . idiCORE is a next-generation, investigative solution used to address a variety of organizational challenges including due diligence, risk mitigation, identity authentication and legislative compliance, by financial services companies, insurance companies, healthcare companies, law enforcement and government, collections, law firms, retail, telecommunication companies, corporate security and investigative firms. FOREWARN is an app-based solution currently tailored for the real estate industry, providing instant knowledge prior to face-to-face engagement with a consumer, helping professionals identify and mitigate risk. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, idiCORE had 5,326 and 4,020 billable customers and FOREWARN had 36,506 and 15,444 users, respectively. The Company defines a billable customer of idiCORE as a single entity that generated revenue in the last month of the period. Billable customers are typically corporate organizations. In most cases, corporate organizations will have multiple users and/or departments purchasing our solutions, however, the Company counts the entire organization as a discrete customer. The Company defines a user of FOREWARN as a unique person that has a subscription to use the FOREWARN service as of the last day of the period. A unique person can only have one user account. 14 We generate substantially all of our revenue from licensing our solutions. Customers access our solutions through a hosted environment using an online interface, batch processing, API and custom integrations. We recognize revenue from licensing fees (a) on a transactional basis determined by the customers usage, (b) via a monthly fee or (c) from a combination of both. Revenue pursuant to pricing contracts containing a monthly fee is recognized ratably over the contract period. Pricing contracts are generally annual contracts or longer, with auto renewal. Revenue from pricing contracts represented 69 % and 67 % of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 20 20 and 201 9 , respectively. Our go-to-market strategy leverages (a) an inside sales team that cultivates relationships, and ultimately closes business, with their end-user markets, (b) a strategic sales team that provides a more personal, face-to-face approach for major accounts within certain industries, and (c) distributors, resellers, and strategic partners that have a significant foothold in many of the industries that we have not historically served, as well as to further penetrate those industries that we do serve. Our sales model generally begins with a free trial followed by an initial purchase on a transactional basis or minimum-committed monthly spend. As organizations derive benefits from our solutions, we are able to land and expand within larger organizations as additional use cases expand across departments, divisions and geographic locations and customers become increasingly reliant on our solutions in their daily workflow. In order for us to continue to develop new products, grow our existing business and expand into additional markets, we must generate and sustain sufficient operating profits and cash flow in future periods. This will require us to generate additional sales from current products and new products currently under development. We continue to build out our sales organization to drive current products and to introduce new products into the marketplace. In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, now known as Covid-19, was reported in Wuhan, China and has since extensively impacted the global health and economic environment. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized Covid-19 as a pandemic. The Company has taken numerous steps, and will continue to take further actions, in its approach to minimizing the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, to ensure the health and well-being of our employees, the Company instructed employees at its offices to work from home on a temporary basis. The Company has implemented cost containment strategies across all areas of the organization, including continued curtailment of Company travel and partnering with suppliers, landlords and vendors for price concessions and payment deferrals during this interim period. In the second half of March, as preventative and protective actions were taken by governments, including the implementation of stay-at-home orders, we experienced reduced transactional volume that we believe was a result of customers adjusting to the effects of these stay-at-home orders. Beginning April 1, 2020, the Company elected, under Section 2302 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), to defer payment of the employer portion of Social Security payroll tax. Under the CARES Act, employers can forgo timely payment of the employer portion of Social Security taxes that would otherwise be due from March 27, 2020 through December 31, 2020, without penalty or interest charges. Employers must pay 50% of the deferred amount by December 31, 2021, and the remainder by December 31, 2022. The Company will continue to assess the CARES Act and other applicable government-related legislation aimed at assisting businesses during the Covid-19 pandemic. Given the dynamic nature of this health emergency, the full impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the Companys ongoing business, results of operations and overall financial performance cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements d i scussion and ana l ysis of financial condition and results of oper a tions are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statement s , which have been prepared in accordance with acc o un t ing principles generally a c c e pted in the Unit e d St a tes (G A AP). The preparati o n of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of ass e ts, li a bi l it i es, revenues and expenses, and r e lated disclosure of contingent a ssets and liabilities. On an ongo i ng basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the allowance for doubtful accounts, useful lives of property and equipment and intangible ass e ts, recoverability of the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, share-based compensation and income tax provision. We base our e s timates on historical ex p e rience a n d on various other assumptions that are believed to be reason a ble under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis f or making judgments ab o ut the ca rrying valu e s of a s s e ts and l i abi l it i es t hat a r e not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these est i ma t es under di f ferent assumptions or conditions. For additional information, please refer to our 2019 Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates disclosed in our 2019 Form 10-K. Recently issued accounting standards See Note 1(b), Recently issued accounting standards, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 15 First Quarter Financial Results For the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019: Total revenue increased 62% to $9.3 million. Net loss was $1.5 million (including share-based compensation expense of $2.2 million) as compared to $1.4 million (including share-based compensation expense of $0.3 million). Adjusted EBITDA was $1.7 million as compared to a negative $0.4 million Gross profit increased 105% to $5.2 million. Gross margin increased to 55% from 44%. Adjusted gross profit increased 96% to $6.0 million. Adjusted gross margin increased to 65% from 53%. Generated $1.2 million in cash from operating activities in the first quarter. Cash and cash equivalents were $11.5 million as of March 31, 2020. Use and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management evaluates the financial performance of our business on a variety of key indicators, including non-GAAP metrics of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin. Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure equal to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure based on GAAP, excluding interest income, net, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, litigation costs, net, and write-off of long-lived assets and others, as noted in the tables below. We define adjusted gross profit as revenue less cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), and adjusted gross margin as adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2020 2019 Net loss $ (1,481 ) $ (1,378 ) Interest income, net (31 ) (40 ) Depreciation and amortization 910 618 Share-based compensation expense 2,221 274 Litigation costs, net - 94 Write-off of long-lived assets and others 111 30 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,730 $ (402 ) The following is a reconciliation of gross profit, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted gross profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2020 2019 Revenue $ 9,300 $ 5,734 Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 3,292 2,669 Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 850 554 Gross profit 5,158 2,511 Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets 850 554 Adjusted gross profit $ 6,008 $ 3,065 Gross margin 55 % 44 % Adjusted gross margin 65 % 53 % In order to assist readers of our condensed consolidated financial statements in understanding the operating results that management uses to evaluate the business and for financial planning purposes, we present non-GAAP measures of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin as supplemental measures of our operating performance. We believe they provide useful information to our investors as they eliminate the impact of certain items that we do not consider indicative of our cash operations and ongoing operating performance. In addition, we use them as an integral part of our internal reporting to measure the performance and operating strength of our business. 16 We believe adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are relevant and provide useful information frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in their evaluation of the operating performance of companies similar to ours and are indicators of the operational strength of our business. We believe adjusted EBITDA eliminates the uneven effect of considerable amounts of non-cash depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and the impact of other non-recurring items, providing useful comparisons versus prior periods or forecasts. Our adjusted gross profit is a measure used by management in evaluating the businesss current operating performance by excluding the impact of prior historical costs of assets that are expensed systematically and allocated over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which may not be indicative of the current operating activity. Our adjusted gross profit is calculated by using revenue, less cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization). We believe adjusted gross profit provides useful information to our investors by eliminating the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization, and specifically the amortization of software developed for internal use, providing a baseline of our core operating results that allow for analyzing trends in our underlying business consistently over multiple periods. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue . Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin are not intended to be performance measures that should be regarded as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. The way we measure adjusted EBITDA, adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and may not be identical to corresponding measures used in our various agreements. Results of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to three months ended March 31, 2019 Revenue . Revenue increased $3.6 million or 62% to $9.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from $5.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. This increase was driven by strong growth in usage from existing customers. Revenue from new customers increased $0.2 million or 10%, base revenue from existing customers increased $3.0 million or 84%, and growth revenue from existing customers increased $0.4 million or 46% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, respectively. Our idiCORE billable customer base grew from 4,020 customers as of March 31, 2019 to 5,326 customers as of March 31, 2020. Revenue from new customers represents the total monthly revenue generated from new customers in a given period. A customer is defined as a new customer during the first six months of revenue generation. Base revenue from existing customers represents the total monthly revenue generated from existing customers in a given period that does not exceed the customers' trailing six-month average revenue. A customer is defined as an existing customer six months after their initial month of revenue. Growth revenue from existing customers represents the total monthly revenue generated from existing customers in a given period in excess of the customers' trailing six-month average revenue. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) . Cost of revenue increased $0.6 million or 23% to $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Our cost of revenue primarily includes data acquisition costs. Data acquisition costs consist primarily of the costs to acquire data either on a transactional basis or through flat-fee data licensing agreements, including unlimited usage agreements. We continue to enhance the breadth and depth of our data through the addition and expansion of relationships with key data suppliers, including our largest data supplier, which accounted for approximately 39% of our total data acquisition costs for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to approximately 41% for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Other cost of revenue items include expenses related to third-party infrastructure fees. As the construct of our data costs is primarily a flat-fee, unlimited usage model, the cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased to 35% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from 47% for the three months ended March 31, 2019. We expect that cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue will continue to decrease over the coming years as our revenue increases. Historically, at scale, the industry business models cost of revenue will trend between 15% and 30% as a percentage of revenue. Sales and marketing expenses . Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.7 million or 45% to $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Sales and marketing expenses consist of salaries and benefits, advertising and marketing, travel expenses, and share-based compensation expense, incurred by our sales team, and provision for bad debts. The increase during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to an aggregate of $0.5 million increase in salaries and benefits, as we continue to invest in the expansion of our sales organization, and sales commissions from increased revenue. General and administrative expenses . General and administrative expenses increased $2.0 million or 87% to $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to the $1.9 million increase in share-based compensation expense, resulting from the achievement of certain performance-based milestones and certain new grants issued after the first quarter of 2019, as outlined in Note 8, Share-based compensation, included in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 17 For the three months ended March 31, 20 20 and 201 9 , our general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of employee salaries and benefits of $ 1 . 2 million and $ 1 . 0 million, share-based compensation expense of $ 2 . 1 million and $0. 2 million, and professional fees of $ 0 .6 million and $ 0 .7 million, respectively . Depreciation and amortization . Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $0.3 million or 47% to $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in depreciation and amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2020 resulted primarily from the amortization of software developed for internal use that became ready for its intended use after March 31, 2019. Loss before income taxes . We had a loss before income taxes of $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The slight increase in loss before income taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in noncash share-based compensation expense of $1.9 million, salaries and benefits and sales commission of $0.7 million, and depreciation and amortization of $0.3 million, which was partially offset by the increase in revenue and the decrease in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue. Income taxes . Income tax expense of $0 was recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. A full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets was recognized as of March 31, 2020 and 2019. See Note 6, Income Taxes, included in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for details. Net loss . A net loss of $1.5 million was recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as a result of the foregoing . Effect of Inflation The rates of inflation experienced in recent years have had no material impact on our financial statements. We attempt to recover increased costs by increasing prices for our services, to the extent permitted by contracts and competition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities . For the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.2 million, primarily the result of the net loss of $1.5 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items (consisting of share-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, write-off of long-lived assets, provision for bad debts and noncash lease expenses) totaling $3.4 million, and the cash used as a result of changes in assets and liabilities of $0.7 million, primarily the result of the increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets and the decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in operating activities was $1.2 million, primarily the result of the net loss of $1.4 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items, as mentioned above, totaling $1.2 million, and the cash used as a result of changes in assets and liabilities of $1.0 million, primarily the result of the increase in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other current assets. Cash flows used in investing activities . For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $1.6 million and $1.4 million, respectively, primarily as a result of capitalized costs included in intangible assets of $1.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2020, we had material commitments under certain data licensing agreements of $12.8 million. We anticipate funding our operations using available cash and cash flow generated from operations within the next twelve months. We reported net loss of $1.5 million and $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of March 31, 2020, we had a total shareholders equity balance of $43.4 million. As of March 31, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $11.5 million. Based on projections of growth in revenue and operating results in the next twelve months, the available cash and cash equivalents held by us, and an unsecured non-recourse loan in the principal amount of approximately $2.2 million under the CARES Act, we believe that we will have sufficient cash resources to finance our operations and expected capital expenditures for the next twelve months. We further believe that our financial resources, including the CARES Act loan, will allow us to manage the impact of Covid-19 on the Company's business operations for the foreseeable future. However, subject to revenue growth, our ability to generate positive cash flow, and the potential impact of Covid-19, we may have to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity and/or debt, which, if we are able to obtain, could have the effect of diluting stockholders. Any equity or debt financings, if available at all, may be on terms which are not favorable to us. 18 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.