ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management's Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with TimefireVR Inc. financial statements and the related notes thereto. The Management's Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Report on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors. Except as required by U.S. securities laws, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial data included elsewhere in this report. See also the notes to our consolidated financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. OVERVIEW The Company is a Nevada corporation. Effective September 13, 2016, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) through which the Company acquired Timefire, LLC (the LLC), a Phoenix-based virtual reality content developer that is an Arizona Limited Liability Company. The LLC has not generated material revenue to date and has incurred material losses. As of the date of this Report, the Company is exploring engaging in the virtual currency business. Its Chief Executive Officer is currently an independent director of a virtual currency company that was an early pioneer of Bitcoin. The Company has no operating capital and we cannot pay our liabilities. Our former Chief Executive Officer and President both resigned after September 30, 2017 and we believe they want to continue the virtual reality business. We very recently received a non-binding term sheet from a group that includes these former executive officers to buy the assets of the LLC that will pay us limited cash and a twelve month note as well as assume $100,000 of past due convertible notes and $100,000 in short-term demand obligations and approximately $255,000 of other obligations, including approximately $82,000 which the Company owes the landlord in past due and future rent obligations. We are negotiating this term sheet with the intent of securing more operating capital. We cannot be certain we can consummate an oral understanding or sell these assets. At the same time, we owe $713,158 plus interest on other past due convertible notes as of the date of this Report (and an additional $70,000 plus interest will be due on November 27, 2017) and are uncertain whether we can reach an accommodation with these secured creditors and obtain future operating capital. Further, our ability to enter the highly competitive virtual currency business is uncertain as well. Results of Operations Total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 was $340 and $0, respectively. The revenue in 2017 was related to our limited software release effective June 15, 2017. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 was $828 and $203,640, respectively. The 2016 revenue was primarily due to a one-time development project for a related party. Operating expenses in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 amounted to $333,888 as compared to $592,538 for the quarter ended September 30, 2016. The decrease in operating expenses is due to a significant reduction in labor costs after the Company laid off most personnel. Operating expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 were $2,317,547 and $966,342, respectively. The increase is primarily due to the ramping up of operations after the September 2016 merger. The net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $328,233 as compared to a net loss of $994,415 for the quarter ended September 30, 2016. This difference is primarily due to the recent personnel layoff. The net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $1,559,319 as compared to a loss of $1,170,692 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. This difference is primarily due to the post-merger operational scale-up which was offset by a $4,129,252 change in the fair value of the warrants issued to investors. Investors should understand that these warrants either create a non-cash gain or loss which is inverse to the price of the Companys common stock. Because the price was lower on September 30, 2017 than on December 31, 2016, the resulting difference is non-cash income. 13 Liquidity and Capital Resources On July 5, 2017, the Company laid off all non-officer personnel due to lack of available funds. Within a week, the Company was able to bring back four full-time staff members as well as two part-time workers as contractors. Due to the significant reduction in personnel, our ability to continue with product development has been slowed. During the period of July through October 2017, the Company received advances totaling $100,000 from a related party who submitted the non-binding term sheet to purchase the LLCs assets. The advances are not evidenced by a promissory note. Until otherwise determined, this is considered a short-term demand obligation. Our balance sheet as of September 30, 2017 reflects $2,021 in cash. As of November 9, 2017, the company had $16,835 in cash. The Company was unable to pay approximately $1,012,000 to retire its convertible notes due September 3, 2017. The Company has no finite plans concerning future financing, although it has had preliminary discussions with investors about a restructuring which would provide some working capital. No specific terms have been discussed and any financing will be very dilutive to existing shareholders. On October 27, 2017, the Company entered into senior secured convertible notes with two institutional investors in the aggregate principal amount of $70,000. The Notes mature on November 27, 2017 (the Maturity Date) and bear interest at 8% per annum. On the Maturity Date, the Company must repay an amount equal to 120% of outstanding principal and accrued interest. Management is continuing to pursue financing from various sources, including private placements from investors and institutions. We do not have capital to satisfy our estimated needs for the next 12 months. Because of the uncertainty regarding the sale of the LLC assets and the virtual currency business costs as well as the sums we owe our principal lenders, we cannot predict, with certainty, the outcome of our actions to generate liquidity, including the availability of additional debt financing, or whether such actions would generate enough liquidity. At this time, our Company does not have a commitment from any party to provide additional financing. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available or if available, on terms that will be acceptable. Any financing will be extremely dilutive to our common shareholders. If we cannot obtain financing, we will cease operations. Going Concern The Company has incurred losses since inception and requires additional funds for future operating activities. The Companys selling activity has not reached a level of revenue sufficient to fund its operating activities. These factors create an uncertainty as to how the Company will fund its operations and maintain sufficient cash flow to operate as a going concern. The combination of these factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. 14