ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial data included elsewhere in this 10-Q. See also the audited financial statements and notes thereto for our recently-acquired operating subsidiary, Red Cat Propware, Inc., filed July 31, 2019 on Form 8-K/A. The Management's Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements relating to our liquidity, and our plans in for our business focusing on cloud-based analytics, storage, and services for drones. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Report on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors. Investors should review the Risk Factors in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 16, 2019. Except as required by U.S. securities laws, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report on Form 10-Q. OVERVIEW We are a Nevada corporation incorporated on April 10, 2002. Effective July 24, 2019, we changed our name to Red Cat Holdings, Inc. On May 15, 2019, we acquired Red Cat Propware, Inc. (Red Cat), a company offering secure, cloud-based analytics, storage, and services for drones. We are focusing primarily on the business of Red Cat going forward. Acquisition of Red Cat Propware, Inc. We acquired Red Cat under a Share Exchange Agreement (the SEA) with Red Cat and each of the shareholders of Red Cat. Under the SEA, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Red Cat, in exchange for our issuance to the Red Cat shareholders of: (i) 236,000,000 shares of our common stock, and (ii) 2,169,068.0554 shares of our newly-designated Series A Preferred Stock. In total, the common stock and Series A Preferred Stock issued Red Cat Propwares shareholders under the SEA constituted approximately 83.33% of our issued an outstanding share capital on a fully-diluted basis. These numbers do not give effect to our reverse stock split effective August 1, 2019. With the exception of shares held by the President of Red Cat and our current CEO, Jeffrey Thompson, the convertibility of shares of Series A Preferred Stock is limited such that a holder of Series A Preferred Stock may not convert Series A Preferred Stock to our common stock to the extent that the number of shares of common stock to be issued pursuant to such conversion, when aggregated with all other shares of common stock owned by the holder at such time, would result in the holder beneficially owning (as determined in accordance with Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) more than 4.99% of all of our common stock outstanding. Effective August 1, 2019, we conducted a 1 for 1,200 reverse split of our common stock. The effectiveness of the reverse split resulted in the automatic conversion of all Series A Preferred Stock to common stock, with exception of certain Series A Preferred shares affected by the 4.99% conversion blocker. Following the reverse split, our remaining shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible to common stock at a ratio of approximately 8.33 shares of common stock for each share of Series A Preferred Stock. Exchange Agreements with Holders of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock, Promissory Notes, Options, and Warrants Immediately prior to the closing of the SEA, we entered into Securities Exchange Agreements (the Exchange Agreements) with each of the holders of our outstanding Series E Convertible Preferred Stock, Promissory Notes, Options, and Warrants (collectively, the Exchange Securities). The holders of the Exchange Securities were issued, in exchange for their Exchange Securities, a total of 4,212,645.28 shares of our newly-designated Series B Preferred Stock. In total, the Series B Preferred Stock issued under the Exchange Agreements constituted approximately 15.64% of our issued an outstanding share capital on a fully-diluted basis. Following the reverse split, our new Series B Preferred Stock is convertible to common stock at a ratio of approximately 0.833 shares of common stock for each share of Series B Preferred Stock. The convertibility of shares of Series B Preferred Stock is also limited such that a holder of Series B Preferred Stock may not convert Series B Preferred Stock to our common stock to the extent that the number of shares of common stock to be issued pursuant to such conversion, when aggregated with all other shares of common stock owned by the holder at such time, would result in the holder beneficially owning (as determined in accordance with Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) more than 4.99% of all of our common stock outstanding. Series B Preferred Stock does not have an automatic conversion feature. 11 Business of Red Cat Propware, Inc. Through our recently-acquired operating subsidiary, Red Cat, we are in the business of providing secure, cloud-based analytics, storage, and services for drones. Our primary product is Black Box by Red Cat. Black Box by Red Cat is a blockchain technology that records all information from a drone much like a traditional airliner black box. Red Cat sends the information directly to the cloud and clones the drone in real time. This information can then be viewed using Red Cats analytics platform with a secure login. Effective August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year end to April 30, which is the accounting year-end for our operating subsidiary Red Cat. Following this Quarterly Report, an additional report on Form 10-Q will be filed covering the transition period. Results of Operations The following discussion analyzes our results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2019. The following information should be considered together with our financial statements for such periods and the accompanying notes thereto. We generated no revenues during the three months ended July 31, 2019, and have not generated revenue to date from our current operations. During the three months ended July 31, 2019, we incurred $321,502 in total expenses from continuing operations, consisting of $185,695 in research and development, $105,696 in professional fees, $29,974 in general and administrative expenses, and $7,137 in payroll expenses. By comparison, during the three months ended July 31, 2018, we incurred $146,450 in expenses from continuing operations, consisting of $107,668 in research and development, $3,973 in professional fees, $1,264 in general and administrative expenses, and $33,546 in payroll expenses. Our expenses and our net loss for the three months ended July 31, 2019 are greater than those experienced during the same period last year due to costs associated with Red Cat becoming a public company through the SEA, and increased costs associated with the expansion of the company. As we continue to develop our business, we expect that costs and net losses will continue to increase until such time as we begin generating material revenue from sales of our is Black Box by Red Cat product. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of July 31, 2019, we had current assets in the amount of $400,766, consisting of cash in the amount of $330,227 and prepaid expenses of $70,539. Our current liabilities as of July 31, 2019 totaled $172,723, and consisted of accounts payable of $60,926, accrued expenses of $89,196, payroll liabilities of $20,801, and capital to be returned in the amount of $1,800. Our net working capital as of July 31, 2019 was $228,043. During the three months ended July 31, 2019, our operations used $155,329 in cash, investing activities used $135,636 in cash, and financing activities provided $117,754 in cash, resulting in a net decrease of $173,211 over the period. We do not have any long term liabilities and, to date, the business of Red Cat has been funded through private offerings of common stock sourced primarily from individual private investors. We will require additional capital in order to execute on our business plan and begin generating net revenue from the Red Cat business. We do not have sufficient cash resources to meet our working capital needs for the next 12 months. Until we are able to sustain our ongoing operations through sales revenue, we intend to fund operations through equity and/or debt financing arrangements, which may be insufficient to fund our capital expenditures, working capital, or other cash requirements. We do not have any formal commitments or arrangements for the sales of stock or the advancement or loan of funds at this time. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Going Concern We have experienced losses from operations since inception. To date, the Red Cat business not been able to produce sales or to become cash flow positive and profitable. The success of our business plan during the next 12 months and beyond will be contingent upon generating sufficient revenue to cover our costs of operations and/or upon obtaining additional financing. For these reasons, our auditor has raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 12 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.