Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 4 Summary of 2018 Developments On January 3, 2018, we announced our entry into the cryptocurrency business. In order to enter the cryptocurrency mining business, we entered into an Advisory Agreement with two parties on March 16, 2018. Under the Advisory Agreement, the parties provided consulting services to us concerning cryptocurrency mining and other opportunities in the cryptocurrency business. The parties to the Advisory Agreement also provided us with an engineer who will provide half-time services to us in the mining business under which he will provide logistical advice and mining oversight including designing, and building overhead operating proprietary software, and monitoring operations of the mining systems. Under the Advisory Agreement, we agreed to reimburse one party $5,000 per month for the services of the mining engineer. Assuming we entered into the mining business within 90 days, we agreed to pay a sales royalty as additional consideration. Further we issued 6,666,666 shares of common stock which will vest quarterly subject to the Advisory Agreement remaining in effect on each applicable vesting date and an additional 6,666,666 three-year warrants exercisable at $0.05 with the same vesting provisions. We terminated the Advisory Agreement effective December 15, 2018. Our Bitcoin Mining Business In late March 2018 we entered into a co-location arrangement with an unaffiliated third party in the mining business. We ordered high speed computer servers and in the Spring after delivery of the servers, initiated our mining of Bitcoin. The intent of this purchase and location was to allow us to solidify, test and validate our hardware and software operating systems prior to expanding our mining operations. See the general discussion of mining beginning on page 5 of this Report. In December 2018, we sold large mining servers (representing 80% of our mining capacity) in order to provide the working capital to remain operational. Our remaining servers are being operated to mine Bitcoin by a co-location company that we have used since we entered the mining business in 2018. For their services from March 21 through December 31, 2019, we owe this company $15,000 and have agreed to net the amount against the balance they owe us for their purchase of the miners. In the ordinary course of business, the Company has acquired and sold Bitcoin, Ether, and other cryptocurrencies. In our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, we disclosed negotiations to acquire Cryptogram, LLC. Those discussions terminated in Spring 2018. Bitcoins and the Bitcoin Network A Bitcoin is one type of cryptocurrency that is issued by, and transmitted through, an open source, math-based protocol platform using cryptographic security that is known as the Bitcoin Network. The Bitcoin Network is an online, peer-to-peer user network that hosts the public transaction ledger, known as the Blockchain, and the source code that comprises the basis for the cryptography and math-based protocols governing the Bitcoin Network. Bitcoins can be used to pay for goods and services or can be converted to fiat currencies, such as the US Dollar. Bitcoins are the initial and leading cryptocurrency and therefore offer the greatest mining opportunity. Bitcoin transactions and ownership are recorded and reflected on the digital transaction ledger known as the Blockchain, which is a digital file stored in a decentralized manner on the computers of each Bitcoin Network user. The Blockchain records the transaction history of all Bitcoins in existence and, through the transparent reporting of transactions, allows the Bitcoin Network to verify the association of each Bitcoin with the digital wallet that owns them. Users keep their Bitcoins in an electronic computer file known as a digital wallet. The Bitcoin Network is decentralized and does not rely on either governmental authorities or financial institutions to create, transmit or determine the value of Bitcoins. Rather, Bitcoins are created and allocated by the Bitcoin Network protocol through a mining process subject to a strict, well-known issuance schedule. Overview of the Bitcoin Networks Operations In order to own, transfer or use Bitcoins, a person generally must have internet access to connect to the Bitcoin Network. Bitcoin transactions between parties occur very rapidly (within several seconds) and may be made directly between end-users without the need for a third-party intermediary, although there are entities that provide third-party intermediary services. To prevent the possibility of double-spending a single Bitcoin, a user must notify the Bitcoin Network of the transaction by broadcasting the transaction data to its network peers. The Bitcoin Network provides confirmation against double-spending by memorializing every transaction in the Blockchain, which is publicly accessible and transparent. This memorialization and verification against double-spending is accomplished through the Bitcoin mining process, which adds blocks of data, including recent transaction information, to the Blockchain. Transaction Verification (Mining) The process by which Bitcoins are mined results in new blocks being added to the Blockchain and new Bitcoins being issued to the miners. Miners engage in a set of prescribed complex mathematical calculations in order to add a block to the Blockchain and thereby confirm Bitcoin transactions included in that blocks data. Miners that are successful in adding a block to the Blockchain are automatically awarded a fixed number of Bitcoins for their effort; we also refer to this process of receiving the aforementioned award as transaction verification services. This reward system is the method by which new Bitcoins enter into circulation to the public and is accomplished in the added block through the notation of the new Bitcoin creation and their allocation to the successful miners digital wallet. To begin mining, a user can download and run Bitcoin Network mining software, which, like regular Bitcoin Network software programs, turns the users computer into a node on the Bitcoin Network that validates blocks. Due to the enhanced investor interest in Bitcoin, there has been large increases in, and a scarcity of, computer servers needed for mining. Additionally, since these high-speed servers use vast amounts of electricity, there has been a spike in the prices of electricity in the areas where mining has been prevalent. These areas were selected for their then low prices. The poster boy or girl for mining is Bitcoin mining which uses huge amounts of electricity to operate the computer servers. Miners sought out areas where electric power was relatively inexpensive. This has caused electricity prices to spike in these areas. Locations such as East Wenatchee, Washington have witnessed a swell in occupants and business as miners relocate to areas with cheap electricity. The mining industry has witnessed a change from small miners operating from their homes to large mining farms operated by companies with substantial capital, computer resources and other capabilities and competitive advantages. As electricity prices have risen as a result of mining, local officials have become alarmed be cause area residents are forced to pay more for their electricity. Last year, Plattsburg, NY banned certain aspects of mining. 5 Alternative cryptocurrencies Bitcoins are not the only type of cryptocurrency founded on math-based algorithms and cryptographic security, although it was considered the most prominent as of March 2018. Over 1,500 other cryptocurrencies, have been developed since the Bitcoin Networks inception, including Ether, Ripple, Litecoin, Dash, and Monero. The Bitcoin Network, however, possesses the first-to-market advantage and thus far has captured the majority of the industrys market share and is secured by a mining network with significantly more processing power than that of any other cryptocurrency. The Company is examining and will continue to examine these other cryptocurrencies, subject to financing, existing market conditions and regulatory compliance. In 2017, Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies experienced substantial price increases particularly in the late fall with extreme volatility beginning in the second half of December: As the price of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies rose, the speculative fever brought substantial competition to the business both from established companies, early stage entrants and bad actors. The effect was to make existing and new businesses much more expensive due to the growing demand and relatively limited supply. Since 2018, the market for cryptocurrency has been weak. As a result, the Company began exploring other opportunities since the cryptocurrency mining business on a limited basis with current market prices is not feasible for a public company encumbered by the overhead that cannot be eliminated. Competition In the mining business, we face substantial competition and a myriad of other risks. We have one part-time contractor, our Chief Executive Officer, who oversees our mining activities and relatively limited financial and other resources. See the Risk Factors that are at the end of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Factors. Cryptocurrency The Companys cryptocurrency initiatives compete with other industry participants that focus on investing in and mining of Bitcoin, Ether, and other cryptocurrencies. Market and financial conditions, and other conditions beyond the Companys control, currently make the cryptocurrency business unattractive. Companies have raised substantial capital seeking to enter the cryptocurrency business. Our lack of capital is a competitive disadvantage. Mining The business of mining of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency is extremely competitive. Over the last several years as costs have spiked and the price of Bitcoin increased, large sources of capital have entered the mining business. This factor, as well as the prior experience and technical capabilities of our competitors, puts us at a competitive disadvantage. Employees We have no employees and two contractors, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer who offer part-time services. Regulation Because we will buy, hold, and sell cryptocurrency, we are subject to numerous federal and state laws around the world regarding cryptocurrency. The scope of these regulations are continuing to evolve, and they may be inconsistent among the locations in which we operate and our users reside. Compliance with these rules may be difficult and costly, and if we fail to comply, we could face liability under these statutes and legal or administrative actions by government entities and private litigants. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors below, for further discussion of the risks we face. Facilities See Item 2. Description of Property. Item 1A. Risk Factors We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and are not required to provide the information under this item. See the Risk Factors we voluntarily disclose at the end of Item 7 of this Report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Description of Property The Companys principal office is located at 7150 E. Camelback Rd. Suite 444 Scottsdale AZ 85251 for which the Company pays monthly rent in the amount of $822. Item3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party to, or otherwise involved in, legal proceedings arising in the normal and ordinary course of business. As of the date of this Report, we are not aware of any proceeding, threatened or pending, against us which, if determined adversely, would have a material effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 6 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information The common stock of the Company is quoted on the OTC Pink under the symbol of TFVR. Dividends We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay such dividends in the foreseeable future. Our board of directors (the Board) will determine our future dividend policy on the basis of many factors, including results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and state law regulating the payment of dividends. Shareholders As of March 29, 2019, there were 235,460,470 shares of common stock outstanding, held by 557 shareholders of record. In addition, as of March 29, 2019, there were 122,190 shares of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. We also have 100 shares of non-convertible super voting preferred stock outstanding. Transfer Agent The Transfer Agent for the Company's Common Stock is Equity Stock Transfer, 237 W 37 th Street, Suite 601, New York, New York 10018. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities We have previously disclosed all sales of securities without registration under the Securities Act of 1933. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Registrant and Affiliated Purchasers We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. Item 6. Selected Financial Data None Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections contained herein, including the risk factors and the consolidated financial statements and the related exhibits contained herein. The various sections of this discussion contain a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this Report as well as other matters over which we have no control. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those set forth in this Report. See Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Company Overview In 2018, the Company focused its efforts on the cryptocurrency business primarily in cryptocurrency mining. This business has not been successful, and the Company sold 80% of our unprofitable mining assets late in the year to reduce ongoing losses and to generate cash to remain operational. The co-location company that hosts our servers continues to host our remaining servers. Results of Operations Total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $105,129 and $0, respectively. The revenue in 2018 was from cryptocurrency mining. The Statement of Operations does not include the operations of TLLC, which is treated as discontinued operations. Operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2018 amounted to $1,833,817 as compared to $1,092,214 for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in operating expenses is from our mining business which began in 2018 as well as increased officer compensation expense as a result of the issuance of options to our Chief Executive Officer. Other expenses for 2018 totaled $1,233,030 versus other income of $3,849,020 in 2017. In 2018 the principal items were a loss of $522,917 on the disposal of mining equipment, the creation of an allowance of $100,000 from the inability to collect from TLLC and $500,182 in non-cash interest expense. In 2017, we had a non-cash gain of $4,193,081 in the change of fair value of our derivative liabilities due to significant drop in our common stock price. For the year ended December 31, 2018 the Company had a net loss from continuing operations of $3,313,561 as compared to income from continuing operations of $2,756,806 in 2017 which was impacted by the change in fair value discussed above. Our net loss for the year was $2,643,313 after accrual of a gain from sale of TLLC of $670,248 in 2018. After deducting the loss of $1,627,979 from TLLC, our net income for 2017 was $1,128,827. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 29, 2019 we had approximately $30,000 in cash and Bitcoin. We can not pay our liabilities including our indebtedness of approximately $2.7 million due April 15, 2019 or the smaller past due note. Assuming we close the acquisition with the Target, we will need to obtain additional financing in order to pay our liabilities or accounts payable as envisioned by the oral understanding. If we are unable to close the acquisition with the Target, we will likely cease operations since we do not have any working capital. 7 Going Concern The Company has incurred losses since inception and requires additional funding for future operating activities. The Companys activities are not generating a level of revenue sufficient to fund its current operating activities. These factors create an uncertainty as to how the Company will fund its operations and maintain sufficient cash flow to operate as a going concern. The combination of these factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Companys ability to meet its cash requirements in the next year is dependent upon obtaining additional financing. If this is not achieved, the Company may be unable to obtain sufficient cash flow to fund its operations and obligations, and as a result there is substantial doubt the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, and accordingly, do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts; nor do they include adjustments to the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue operations or be required to sell its assets. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not engage in any activities involving variable interest entities or off-balance sheet arrangements. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following Risk Factors before deciding whether to invest in our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations or our financial condition. If any of the events discussed in the Risk Factors below occur, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the value and marketability of the common stock could decline. You should recognize that we have been unable to generate material revenues from our cryptocurrency business, a business which is subject to special risks described below Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition If we cannot complete a transaction in the near future, we will be required to cease operations. We have no working capital and no understandings with any investors to finance our business as of the date of this Report. We intend to focus on attempting to close the acquisition of the Target and have had discussions with our principal investors about providing the appropriate financing in order pay our accounts payable and be in a position to close the acquisition. The investors have also orally agreed to convert their preferred stock and notes into a new series of preferred stock with no preferences or limitations other than a 4.99% blocker. If we are unable to complete the acquisition, we will likely cease operations. Our ability to continue as a going concern is in doubt unless we obtain adequate new debt or equity financing and achieve sufficient sales levels. As noted above, we have incurred significant net losses to date. We anticipate that we will continue to lose money for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have negative cash flows from operations and no expectations of revenue in the near future. Our continued existence is dependent upon generating sufficient working capital and obtaining adequate new debt or equity financing. Because of our continuing losses, without improvements in our cash flow from operations or new financing, we may have to continue to restrict our expenditures. Working capital limitations may impinge on our day-to-day operations, which may contribute to continued operating losses. Because of the recent declines in the price of our common stock, third parties have declined to do business with us. As of the close of business on March 29, 2019, the price of our common stock was .00194 as reported on the OTC Pink. The holders of our Series E Preferred Stock may convert their Series E Preferred Stock into a large number of shares of our common stock which may cause the price of our common stock to stay below $0.01. Because of the recent large decline in the price of our common stock, we have faced the loss of pending business opportunities and reluctance by third parties to enter into business with us. As a result of our low stock price, we may continue to lose business opportunities in the future. Risk of Future Cryptocurrency Legislation and Regulation Because of sharp run ups in the price of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and the recent declines, as well as a number of fraudulent and other wrongful campaigns affecting cryptocurrency, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and, other federal regulators and state regulators, and foreign authorities have recently increased their focus on cryptocurrency issuances and trading and it is likely that there will be future legislation and new rules, which may adversely affect the business of the Company. In public speeches, the Chairman of the SEC has focused substantial attention and concerns related to the issuance and trading of cryptocurrency. The SEC has also filed lawsuits, suspended trading of cryptocurrency companies, taken administrative action to stop an initial coin offering (ICO) and is reportedly issuing subpoenas relating to promotion of ICOs. While the Company cannot predict what kind of legislation and regulation may be enacted in the future, it is possible that any such legislation and regulation may adversely affect the Company which could cause our stock price to fall sharply. 8 If regulatory changes or interpretations require the regulation of cryptocurrency under the Act and the Company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the 1940 Act) by the SEC, we may be required to register and comply with such regulations, which may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses to us. Current and future legislation, the SEC rulemaking and other regulatory developments, including interpretations released by a regulatory authority, may impact the manner in which cryptocurrency is treated for classification and clearing purposes. The SECs July 25, 2017 Report of Investigation Pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: The DAO (the Report) expressed its view that cryptocurrencies may be securities depending on the facts and circumstances. We are not aware of any rules that have been proposed to regulate cryptocurrency as securities. We cannot be certain as to how future regulatory developments will impact the treatment of cryptocurrency under the law. Such additional registrations may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in us. If we determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease certain of our operations. Any such action may adversely affect an investment in us. To the extent that cryptocurrencies we may own are deemed by the SEC to fall within the definition of a security, we may be required to register and comply with additional regulation under the 1940 Act, including additional periodic reporting and disclosure standards and requirements and the registration of our Company as an investment company. To date, the SEC has concluded that Bitcoin, and Ether which we previously owned, are not securities. Additionally, one or more states may conclude that Ether, Bitcoin and the other cryptocurrencies we may own are a security under state securities laws which would require registration under state laws including merit review laws which would adversely impact us since we would likely not comply. Some states including California define the term investment contract more strictly than the SEC. Such additional registrations may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses of our Company, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in our Company. If we determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease all or certain parts of our operations. Any such action would likely adversely affect an investment in us and investors may suffer a complete loss of their investment. If regulatory changes or actions occur, it may restrict the use of virtual currency in a manner that adversely affects an investment in us. Until recently, little or no regulatory attention has been directed toward Bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies and the markets where they trade by U.S. federal and state governments, foreign governments and self-regulatory agencies. As Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency have grown in popularity and in market size and ICOs which tend to be securities, the SEC, Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress and certain other U.S. agencies (e.g., the CFTC, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation) have questioned whether ICOs and cryptocurrencies are securities. Based on enforcement actions brought by the SEC and speeches by its Chairman, it seems clear that ICOs are, in almost all cases, securities. The Company does not intend to acquire ICOs because they are securities and, with one exception not applicable to the Company, sold in violation of the federal securities laws. On July 25, 2017, the SEC issued its Report which concluded that cryptocurrencies issued for the purpose of raising funds may be securities within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The Report focused on the activities of a virtual organization which offered tokens in exchange for Ether which is the second largest reported cryptocurrency. The Report emphasized that whether a cryptocurrency is a security is based on the facts and circumstances. Although the Companys activities are not focused on using cryptocurrency to raise capital or assisting others that do so, the federal securities laws are very broad, and there can be no assurances that the SEC will not take enforcement action against the Company in the future including for the sale of unregistered securities in violation of the Act or acting as an unregistered investment company in violation of the 1940 Act. The SEC has taken various actions against persons or entities misusing Bitcoin in connection with fraudulent schemes ( i.e. , Ponzi scheme), inaccurate and inadequate publicly disseminated information, and the offering of unregistered securities. More recently, the SEC suspended trading a number of cryptocurrencies public companies. To the extent Bitcoin is determined to be a security or to the extent that a US or foreign government or quasi-governmental agency exerts regulatory authority over the trading and ownership, trading or ownership in Bitcoin, an investment in us may be adversely affected. Very recently there has been much discussion concerning the need for legislation and underlying regulation to address these concerns. Local state regulators such as the New York State Department of Financial Services (the NYSDFS) have also initiated examinations of Bitcoin, the Bitcoin Network and the regulation thereof. In 2015 the NYSDFS issued its final BitLicense regulatory framework. The BitLicense regulates the conduct of businesses that are involved in virtual currencies in New York or with New York customers and prohibits any person or entity involved in such activity to conduct activities without a license. As more states regulate cryptocurrency investing and trading, we may be required to comply with these regulations or cease operation. A similar message is being expressed overseas by regulators. While the Company cannot predict what kind of legislation and regulation may be enacted in the future, it is possible that any such legislation and regulation may adversely affect the Company which could cause our stock price to fall sharply. Bitcoin currently faces an uncertain regulatory landscape in not only the United States but also in many foreign jurisdictions. Certain countries such as Bulgaria, Belgium, Finland and the United Kingdom wish to tax and regulate the use of Bitcoin, however these countries have not yet figured out the most effective way to create a regulatory environment that is not only supportive of the cryptocurrency, but also allows for it to be accurately taxed and regulated to prevent money laundering, extortion and criminal fraud. Other countries such as China, Russia, Bolivia, Columbia, and Ecuador have banned either the trading or possession of bitcoin, making it illegal to use Bitcoin for any service within these countries. Other countries such as Germany are open to Bitcoin, the country has created a hybrid system where bitcoin is considered legal but taxed differently depending upon whether the authorities are dealing with exchanges, miners, enterprises or users. Initial coin offerings (ICOs) are increasingly being viewed as a controversial method of crowdfunding a company through cryptocurrency. ICOs have been a mixed bag internationally, with countries such as China, undertaking a full ban and others like Singapore or Malta using ICOs to boost the flow of digital cash into their economies. However, there's no synchronized regulation effort between countries, and given the borderless nature of blockchain, the risks of money laundering, extortion, and criminal fraud remain a constant concern. . While certain governments have issued guidance as to how to treat Bitcoin, most regulatory bodies have not yet issued official statements regarding intention to regulate or determinations on regulation of Bitcoin, the Bitcoin Network and Bitcoin users. The effect of any future regulatory change on us, Bitcoins, or other cryptocurrency is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and adverse to us and could adversely affect an investment in us. If cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether are found to be securities, our business model may not be successful. Bitcoin is the oldest and most well-known form of cryptocurrency. Bitcoin, Ether, and other forms of cryptocurrencies have been the source of much regulatory consternation, resulting in differing definitional outcomes without a single unifying statement. When the interests of investor protection are paramount, for example in the offer or sale of ICO tokens, the SEC has no difficulty concluding that the token offerings are securities under the Howey test as stated by the United States Supreme Court. As such, ICO offerings would require registration under the Act or an available exemption therefrom for offers or sales in the United States to be lawful. Section 5 of the Act provides that, unless a registration statement is in effect as to a security or it is exempt, it is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to engage in the offer or sale of securities. In September 2018, a federal district court ruled that the ICO in question was a security. This ruling aligns with the position of the SECs Chairman who has stated that all ICOs of which he is aware involve the sale of a security. While the SEC has concluded that Bitcoin and Ether are not securities, we do not know if other cryptocurrencies we acquired in 2018 are deemed to be securities, although we believe that since we were awarded these instruments as a result of our mining, they are not securities. However, a state securities regulator may challenge our position, and we may face regulation under state securities laws. Such regulation or the inability to meet the requirements to continue operations, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. 9 If we acquire cryptocurrencies which are securities, even unintentionally, we may violate the 1940 Act and incur potential third-party liabilities. The Company intends to comply with the 1940 Act in all respects. To that end, if the Company acquires cryptocurrencies which are determined to constitute investment securities of a kind that subject the Company to registration and reporting under the 1940 Act, the Company will limit its holdings of securities to less than 40% of its assets (excluding cash). Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act defines investment company to mean any issuer that is engaged in the business of investing in securities, having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuers total assets (exclusive of cash). If we violate this 40% limit, we will have one-year to cure by getting our investment securities below the 40% test. However, we may only do this every three years. What complicates this is (i) we may inadvertently surpass the 40% limit due to a spike in the price of a security we own or (ii) a court or the SEC administratively may rule that cryptocurrencies we own are securities. If we ever are required to register as an investment company, we may be required to cease operations. If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as a money services business under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act or under state regulations, we may be required to register and comply with such regulations, the required registrations, licensure and regulatory compliance steps may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses to us or cause us to cease operating in the area which requires registration. The Company is engaged in a business activity that involves transmitting cryptocurrency. Although the Company does not feel this business activity categorizes it as a Money Services Business (MSB) or Money Transmitter (MT) under regulations promulgated by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) under the Bank Secrecy Act or any other applicable state MSB or MT law changing regulations or regulatory interpretations of the Companys business activities may require it to register and comply with MSB and/or MT regulations. In the event the Company is required to register as a MSB or MT, the Company may be required to obtain MSB or MT licensure and take regulatory compliance steps including implementing anti-money laundering programs, reporting to FinCEN or a state regulatory authority regarding the Companys MSB or MT business, and maintaining certain records. Additionally, in the event that companies that we do business with are not properly registered, our business will be adversely affected and we may be liable for being an unlicensed MSB or MT. Currently, multiple states have finalized or proposed regulatory frameworks for businesses conducting cryptocurrency business activities and have made public statements indicating cryptocurrency businesses may be required to seek licenses as MSBs or MTs in the near future. The effect of any future regulatory change on us, Bitcoins, or other cryptocurrencies is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and adverse to us and could adversely affect an investment in us. To the extent that the activities of the Company cause it to be deemed a MSB or MT or equivalent designation the Company may be required to seek a license or otherwise register with the U.S. Department of Treasury or a state regulator and comply with state regulations that may include the implementation of anti-money laundering programs, maintenance of certain records and other operational requirements. In addition to New Yorks BitLicense framework for businesses that conduct cryptocurrency business activity, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors has proposed a model form of state level cryptocurrency regulation and additional state regulators including those from California, Idaho, Virginia, Kansas, Texas, South Dakota and Washington have made public statements indicating that cryptocurrency businesses may be required to seek licenses as MSBs or MTs. In July 2016, North Carolina updated the law to define cryptocurrency and the activities that trigger licensure in a business-friendly approach that encourages companies to use cryptocurrency and blockchain technology. Specifically, the North Carolina law does not require miners or software providers to obtain a license for multi-signature software, smart contract platforms, smart property, colored coins and non-hosted, non-custodial wallets. Starting January 1, 2016, New Hampshire requires anyone who exchanges a cryptocurrency for another currency must become a licensed and bonded MT. Washington recently passed legislation requiring that cryptocurrency exchanges be registered as MSBs or MTs, that cryptocurrency exchanges agree to third-party security audits of their transmission systems, and that they post surety bonds to cover the cost of certain customer claims. In numerous other states, including Connecticut and New Jersey, legislation is being proposed or has been introduced regarding the treatment of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. The Company will continue to monitor for developments in such legislation, guidance or regulations. Regulators in Missouri and New York have brought cases against businesses or individuals for operating unlicensed MSBs or MTs relating to the transmission of cryptocurrency. Additionally, federal regulators have investigated and prosecuted cases in Ohio and Michigan relating to unlicensed MSBs or MTs. FinCEN recently announced that mining and investing in cryptocurrency for personal use does not constitute activity requiring a MSB or MT license. If we are deemed to be a MSB or MT, the Company may decide to cease operations or may not be capable with complying with certain federal or state regulatory obligations applicable to MSBs and MTs. Any termination of Company operations in response to changed regulatory circumstances or interpretations at the federal or state levels will adversely affect our business and your investment in the Company. It may be illegal now, or in the future, to acquire, own, hold, sell or use cryptocurrencies in one or more countries, and ownership of, holding or trading in our securities may also be considered illegal and subject to sanction. Although cryptocurrencies are currently not regulated or are lightly regulated in most countries, including the United States, one or more countries such as China, South Korea or Russia may take regulatory actions in the future that severely restricts the right to acquire, own, hold, sell or use cryptocurrencies or to exchange cryptocurrencies for fiat currency. Such an action may also result in the restriction of ownership, holding or trading in our securities. Some countries such as Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, and Cambodia have banned the trading or possession of cryptocurrencies or have issued reports that possessing cryptocurrencies may not be legal. Such restrictions may adversely affect an investment in us, if we elect to do business outside of the United States. If federal or state legislatures or agencies initiate or release tax determinations that change the classification of cryptocurrency as property for tax purposes (in the context of when such Bitcoins are held as an investment), such determination could have a negative tax consequence on our Company or our shareholders. Current Internal Revenue Service (IRS) guidance indicates that cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin should be treated and taxed as property, and that transactions involving the payment of Bitcoin for goods and services should be treated as barter transactions. While this treatment creates a potential tax reporting requirement for any circumstance where the ownership of the cryptocurrency passes from one person to another, usually by means of cryptocurrency transactions (including off-blockchain transactions), it preserves the right to apply capital gains treatment to those transactions. On December 5, 2014, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance issued guidance regarding the application of state tax law to cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin. The agency determined that New York State would follow the IRS guidance with respect to the treatment of cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin for state income tax purposes. Furthermore, they defined cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin to be a form of intangible property, meaning the purchase and sale of Bitcoin for fiat currency is not subject to state income tax (although transactions of Bitcoin for other goods and services may be subject to sales tax under barter transaction treatment). It is unclear if other states will follow the guidance of the IRS and the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance with respect to the treatment of cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin for income tax and sales tax purposes. If a state adopts a different treatment, such treatment may have negative consequences including the imposition of a greater tax burden on investors in Bitcoin or imposing a greater cost on the acquisition and disposition of Bitcoin, generally; in either case potentially having a negative effect on prices in the cryptocurrency exchange market and may adversely affect an investment in our Company. 10 Foreign jurisdictions may also elect to treat cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin differently for tax purposes than the IRS or the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance. To the extent that a foreign jurisdiction with a significant share of the market of Bitcoin users imposes onerous tax burdens on Bitcoin users, or imposes sales or value added tax on purchases and sales of Bitcoin for fiat currency, such actions could result in decreased demand for Bitcoin in such jurisdiction, which could impact the price of Bitcoin or other cryptocurrency and negatively impact an investment in our Company. Since there has been limited precedent set for financial accounting or taxation of cryptocurrencies it is unclear how we will be required to account for cryptocurrency transactions and the taxation of our businesses. There is currently no authoritative literature under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States which specifically addresses the accounting for cryptocurrency. Therefore, by analogy, we intend to record cryptocurrency similar to financial instruments under ASC 825, Financial Instruments, because the economic nature of these cryptocurrency is most closely related to a financial instrument such as an investment in a foreign currency. In 2014, the IRS issued guidance in Notice 2014-21 that classified cryptocurrency as property, not currency, for federal income tax purposes. But according to the requirements of the Fair Trade and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, which requires foreign financial institutions to provide the IRS with information about accounts held by U.S. taxpayers or foreign entities controlled by U.S. taxpayers, cryptocurrency exchanges, in the ordinary course of doing business, are considered financial institutions. On November 30, 2016, a federal judge in the Northern District of California granted an IRS application to serve a John Doe summons on Coinbase Inc., which operates a cryptocurrency wallet and exchange business. The summons asked Coinbase to identify all U.S. customers who transferred convertible cryptocurrency from 2013 to 2015. The IRS is trying to get cryptocurrency owners to report the value of their wallets to the federal government and the IRS is treating cryptocurrency as both property and currency. We believe that all of our cryptocurrency activities will be accounted for on the same basis regardless of the form of cryptocurrency. A change in regulatory or financial accounting standards or interpretation by the IRS or accounting standards or the SEC could result in changes in our accounting treatment, taxation and the necessity to restate our financial statements. Such a restatement could negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. Further, actions by the IRS or other regulators which impinge on the anonymity of cryptocurrency may adversely affect our future business and prospects and reduce the value of our cryptocurrency. Risks Concerning Cryptocurrency Mining Because we do not have any employees or consultants who have any expertise in cryptocurrency mining, we may be unable to engage in further mining activities. Cryptocurrency mining is not like riding a bike. We are relying upon a third party for our mining activities. If they decide our limited mining activities do not justify continuing to serve us, they may terminate their services. In that event, unless we will be able to obtain financing for this activity, we will not be able to expand our mining activities. Because of a supply shortage, we may be unable to purchase adequate computer equipment to mine cryptocurrency at a competitive level. Mining cryptocurrency requires running high-end computers which process complex algorithms to add to the blockchain. Because mining cryptocurrency requires large amounts of computer processing power, there is a worldwide shortage for computer components which can successfully mine cryptocurrency. There is a worldwide shortage for high-end graphics cards which can be enabled to function as computer processors for mining cryptocurrency. Further, other types of computer components, which can be used for mining, are in short supply. As more individuals enter the mining business the demand for components rises. Additionally, as more miners engage in mining the ability to successfully mine cryptocurrency requires more powerful components. If we are unable to obtain adequate components to mine cryptocurrency we will be unable to engage in mining. As such, we may be unable to acquire the components we need to successfully mine cryptocurrency which could have an adverse price on our stock. If we cannot secure affordable electric power, our mining business will not be successful. Mining cryptocurrency requires a substantial amount of electricity in order to power the computers, commonly referred to as mining rigs, which mine cryptocurrency. Locations offering cheap mining electricity, both within the United States and internationally, have been historically targeted by groups of people interested in mining. T he mining industry has witnessed a change from small miners operating from their homes to large mining farms operated by companies with substantial capital, computer resources and other capabilities and competitive advantages. The surge in population to these areas caused by new mining activity has caused electricity prices to increase for local residents. In reaction to electricity prices rising, local officials in some areas have taken action to ban or restrict certain aspects of mining. If we are unable to locate areas with cheap electricity costs which are feasible for mining or if the electricity costs where we have a mining rig increase in value or if the area in which we operate a mining rig passes ordinances which restrict our mining activities we may be unable to mine cryptocurrency in a way that is profitable which could have an adverse price on our stock. If a malicious actor or botnet obtains control in excess of 50% of the processing power active on the Bitcoin network, it is possible that such actor or botnet could manipulate the blockchain in a manner that adversely affects an investment in us. If a malicious actor or botnet (a volunteer or hacked collection of computers controlled by networked software coordinating the actions of the computers) obtains a majority of the processing power dedicated to mining on the Bitcoin network, including the Bitcoin network, it may be able to alter the blockchain by constructing alternate blocks if it is able to solve for such blocks faster than the remainder of the miners on the blockchain can add valid blocks and could control, exclude or modify the ordering of transactions, though it could not generate new Bitcoin or transactions using such control. The approach towards and possible crossing of the 50% threshold indicate a greater risk that a single mining pool could exert authority over the validation of Bitcoin transactions. To the extent that the Bitcoin ecosystems do not act to ensure greater decentralization of Bitcoin mining processing power, the feasibility of a malicious actor obtaining in excess of 50% of the processing power on the Bitcoin network (e.g., through control of a large mining pool or through hacking such a mining pool) will increase, which may adversely impact an investment in us. 11 If the award of Bitcoin for solving blocks and transaction fees for recording transactions are not sufficiently high to incentivize miners, miners may cease expending hashrate to solve blocks and confirmations of transactions on the blockchain could be slowed temporarily. A reduction in the hashrate expended by miners on the Bitcoin network could increase the likelihood of a malicious actor obtaining control in excess of 50% of the aggregate hashrate active on such network or the blockchain, potentially permitting such actor to manipulate the blockchain in a manner that adversely affects an investment in us. Bitcoin miners record transactions when they solve for and add blocks of information to the blockchain. When a miner solves for a block, it creates that block. Typically, Bitcoin transactions will be recorded in the next chronological block if the spending party has an internet connection and at least one minute has passed between the transactions data packet transmission and the solution of the next block. If a transaction is not recorded in the next chronological block, it is usually recorded in the next block thereafter. As the award of new Bitcoin for solving blocks declines, and if transaction fees are not sufficiently high, miners may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining and may cease their mining operations. Any reduction in confidence in the confirmation process or aggregate speed of completing transactions on the Bitcoin network (the hashrate) may negatively impact the value of Bitcoin, which will adversely impact an investment in us. To the extent Bitcoin mining operations experience low profit margins, their operators are more likely to immediately sell their Bitcoin earned by mining in the Bitcoin exchange market, resulting in a reduction in the price of Bitcoin that could adversely impact an investment in us. Over the past two years, professionalized Bitcoin mining operations have largely replaced individual users mining with computer processors, graphics processing units and first-generation servers. Professionalized mining operations are of a greater scale than prior miners and have more defined, regular expenses and liabilities. These regular expenses and liabilities may require professionalized mining operations to immediately sell Bitcoin earned from mining operations on the Bitcoin exchange market, which is different than individual miners in past years who didnt face pressures to immediately divest of their Bitcoin. The immediate selling of newly mined Bitcoin greatly increases the supply of Bitcoin on the Bitcoin exchange market, creating downward pressure on the price of each Bitcoin. The extent to which the value of Bitcoin mined by a professionalized mining operation exceeds the allocable capital and operating costs determines the profit margin of such operation. A professionalized mining operation may be more likely to sell a higher percentage of its newly mined Bitcoin rapidly if it is operating at a low profit marginand it may partially or completely cease operations if its profit margin is negative. Lower Bitcoin prices could result in further tightening of profit margins, particularly for professionalized mining operations with higher costs and more limited capital reserves, creating a network effect that may further reduce the price of Bitcoin until mining operations with higher operating costs become unprofitable and remove mining power from the respective Bitcoin network. The network effect of reduced profit margins resulting in greater sales of newly mined Bitcoin could result in a reduction in the price of Bitcoin that could adversely impact an investment in us. To the extent that any miners cease to record transactions in solved blocks, transactions that do not include the payment of a transaction fee will not be recorded on the blockchain until a block is solved by a miner who does not require the payment of transaction fees. Any widespread delays in the recording of transactions could result in a loss of confidence in that cryptocurrency network, which could adversely impact an investment in us. To the extent that any miners cease to record transaction in solved blocks, such transactions will not be recorded on the blockchain. Currently, there are no known incentives for miners to elect to exclude the recording of transactions in solved blocks; however, to the extent that any such incentives arise (e.g., a collective movement among miners or one or more mining pools forcing Bitcoin users to pay transaction fees as a substitute for or in addition to the award of new Bitcoins upon the solving of a block), actions of miners solving a significant number of blocks could delay the recording and confirmation of transactions on the blockchain. Any systemic delays in the recording and confirmation of transactions on the blockchain could result in greater exposure to double-spending transactions and a loss of confidence in certain or all cryptocurrency networks, which could adversely impact an investment in us. The acceptance of cryptocurrency network software patches or upgrades by a significant, but not overwhelming, percentage of the users and miners in any cryptocurrency network could result in a fork in the respective blockchain, resulting in the operation of two separate networks until such time as the forked blockchains are merged. The temporary or permanent existence of forked blockchains could adversely impact an investment in us . Cryptocurrency networks are open source projects and, although there is an influential group of leaders in, for example, the Bitcoin network community known as the Core Developers, there is no official developer or group of developers that formally controls the Bitcoin network. Any individual can download the Bitcoin network software and make any desired modifications, which are proposed to users and miners on the Bitcoin network through software downloads and upgrades, typically posted to the Bitcoin development forum on GitHub.com. A substantial majority of miners and Bitcoin users must consent to those software modifications by downloading the altered software or upgrade that implements the changes; otherwise, the changes do not become a part of the Bitcoin network. Since the Bitcoin networks inception, changes to the Bitcoin network have been accepted by the vast majority of users and miners, ensuring that the Bitcoin network remains a coherent economic system; however, a developer or group of developers could potentially propose a modification to the Bitcoin network that is not accepted by a vast majority of miners and users, but that is nonetheless accepted by a substantial population of participants in the Bitcoin network. In such a case, and if the modification is material and/or not backwards compatible with the prior version of Bitcoin network software, a fork in the blockchain could develop and two separate Bitcoin networks could result, one running the pre-modification software program and the other running the modified version (i.e., a second Bitcoin network). Such a fork in the blockchain typically would be addressed by community-led efforts to merge the forked blockchains, and several prior forks have been so merged. This kind of split in the Bitcoin network could materially and adversely impact an investment in us and, in the worst case scenario, harm the sustainability of the Bitcoin networks economy. Because there is a limited supply of Bitcoin, miners may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining Bitcoin and the Company may be unable to use its mining equipment to mine other cryptocurrencies. The current fixed reward for solving a new Bitcoin block is 12.5 Bitcoin per block; the reward decreased from 25 Bitcoin in July 2016. The reward for adding a block to the Bitcoin protocol is halved every 210,000 blocks and it is estimated that it will halve again in about four years. The current Bitcoin protocol permits a total of 21 million Bitcoin to exist. As the number of Bitcoin remaining for mining decreases the processing power required to record new blocks on the blockchain increases. Eventually the processing power required to add a block to the blockchain may exceed the value of the reward for adding a block. Further, at some point, there will be no Bitcoin to mine. Once the processing power required to add a block to the blockchain exceeds the value of the reward for adding a block the Company may need to use its mining equipment to mine other types of cryptocurrency. If the Company is unable to successfully mine other types of cryptocurrency, the Company may have to discontinue its mining operations and sell the Companys mining equipment which may result in a net loss to the Companys mining business. 12 Risks Related to Cryptocurrency The further development and acceptance of cryptocurrency networks and other cryptocurrency, which represent a new and rapidly changing industry, are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of cryptocurrency systems may adversely affect an investment in us . Cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, which may be used to buy and sell goods and services are a new and rapidly evolving industry of which the cryptocurrency networks are prominent, but not unique, parts. The growth of the cryptocurrency industry in general, and the cryptocurrency networks of Bitcoin in particular, are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. There is no assurance that a person who accepts a cryptocurrency as payment today will continue to do so in the future. The factors affecting the further development of the cryptocurrency industry, as well as the cryptocurrency networks, include: continued worldwide growth in the adoption and use of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency; government and quasi-government regulation of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of the cryptocurrency network or similar cryptocurrency systems; the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of the Bitcoin network; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, including new means of using fiat currencies; general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to cryptocurrency; and the impact of regulators focusing on cryptocurrency and the costs associated with such regulatory oversight. A decline in the popularity or acceptance of the cryptocurrency networks of Bitcoin or similar cryptocurrency systems, could adversely affect an investment in us. Because, there is relatively small use of cryptocurrency in the retail and commercial marketplace in comparison to relatively large use by speculators, it may contribute to price volatility that could adversely affect an investment in us. As relatively new products and technologies, cryptocurrency and the blockchain networks on which they exist have only recently become widely accepted as a means of payment for goods and services by some major retail and commercial outlets, and use of cryptocurrency by consumers to pay such retail and commercial outlets remains limited. Conversely, a significant portion of demand for cryptocurrency is generated by speculators and investors seeking to profit from the short- or long-term holding of such cryptocurrency. A lack of expansion of cryptocurrency into retail and commercial markets, or a contraction of such use, may result in increased volatility or a reduction in the price of all or any cryptocurrency, either of which could adversely impact an investment in us. If significant contributors to the Bitcoin network could propose amendments to the networks protocols and software and the amendments are accepted and authorized by such network, it could adversely affect an investment in us. With respect to the Bitcoin network, a small group of individuals contribute to the Bitcoin Core project. These individuals can propose refinements or improvements to the Bitcoin networks source code through one or more software upgrades that alter the protocols and software that govern the Bitcoin network and the properties of Bitcoin, including the irreversibility of transactions and limitations on the mining of new Bitcoin. To the extent that a significant majority of the users and miners on the Bitcoin network install such software upgrade(s), the Bitcoin network would be subject to new protocols and software that may adversely affect an investment in us. In the event a developer or group of developers proposes a modification to the Bitcoin network that is not accepted by a majority of miners and users, but that is nonetheless accepted by a plurality of miners and users, two or more competing and incompatible blockchain implementations could result. This is known as a hard fork which could materially and adversely affect the perceived value of Bitcoin as reflected on one or both incompatible blockchains, which may adversely affect an investment in us. The same risk applies if we diversify our business in the future and make investments in the blockchain and cryptocurrency business. Other generic cryptocurrency-type risks apply if we diversify our investment portfolio. Forks in the Bitcoin network may occur in the future which may affect the value of Bitcoin held by us. On August 1, 2017 Bitcoins blockchain was forked and Bitcoin Cash was created. The fork resulted in a new blockchain being created with a shared history, and a new path forward. Bitcoin Cash has a block size of 8mb and other technical changes. On October 24, 2017, Bitcoins blockchain was forked and Bitcoin Gold was created. The fork resulted in a new blockchain being created with a shared history, and new path forward, Bitcoin Gold has a different proof of work algorithm and other technical changes. The value of the newly created Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Gold may or may not have value in the long run and may affect the price of Bitcoin if interest is shifted away from Bitcoin to the newly created Bitcoin. If a fork occurs on a Bitcoin Network, it may have a negative effect on the value of Bitcoin and may adversely affect an investment in us. Because of our involvement in the blockchain and cryptocurrency business, it is more likely that we may be the target of security breaches, computer viruses and computer hacking attacks, which in turn may harm our business and results of operations. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future. This risk is accentuated because hackers may be more inclined to hack us in anticipation of stealing our cryptocurrency. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract new users. Because the cryptocurrency exchanges on which cryptocurrencies trade are relatively new and, in most cases, largely unregulated, they may be more exposed to fraud and failure than established, regulated exchanges for other products. The cryptocurrency exchanges on which Bitcoin trade are new and, in most cases, largely unregulated. Furthermore, many cryptocurrency exchanges (including several of the most prominent United States dollar denominated cryptocurrency exchanges) do not provide the public with significant information regarding their ownership structure, management teams, corporate practices or regulatory compliance. As a result, the marketplace may lose confidence in, or may experience problems relating to, cryptocurrency exchanges, including prominent exchanges handling a significant portion of the volume of cryptocurrency trading. For example, over the past several years, a number of Bitcoin exchanges have been closed due to fraud, failure or security breaches. In many of these instances, the customers of such Bitcoin exchanges were not compensated or made whole for the partial or complete losses of their account balances in such Bitcoin exchanges. While smaller Bitcoin exchanges are less likely to have the infrastructure and capitalization that make larger Bitcoin exchanges more stable, larger Bitcoin exchanges are more likely to be appealing targets for hacker and malware ( i.e. , software used or programmed by attackers to disrupt computer operation, gather sensitive information or gain access to private computer systems). In January 2018, it was reported that $530 million of cryptocurrency were missing from a Japanese exchange. Further, the collapse of the largest Bitcoin exchange in 2014 suggests that the failure of one component of the overall Bitcoin ecosystem can have consequences for both users of a Bitcoin exchange and the Bitcoin industry as a whole. A lack of stability in the cryptocurrency exchange market and the closure or temporary shutdown of cryptocurrency exchanges due to fraud, business failure, hackers or malware, or government-mandated regulation may reduce confidence in the cryptocurrency networks and result in greater volatility in cryptocurrency values. These potential consequences of a cryptocurrency exchanges failure could adversely affect an investment in us. If political or economic crises motivate large-scale sales of cryptocurrency, it could result in a reduction in some or all cryptocurrency values and adversely affect an investment in us. As an alternative to fiat currencies that are backed by central governments, cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin, which are relatively new, are subject to supply and demand forces based upon the desirability of an alternative, decentralized means of buying and selling goods and services, and it is unclear how such supply and demand will be impacted by geopolitical events. Nevertheless, political or economic crises may motivate large-scale acquisitions or sales of cryptocurrency either globally or locally. Large-scale sales of cryptocurrency would result in a reduction in their value and could adversely affect an investment in us. The recent dramatic drop in the value of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency seems likely to have resulted from substantially selling and possibly small investor panic. 13 Because demand for Bitcoin is driven, in part, by its status as the most prominent and secure cryptocurrency, it is possible that cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin could have features that make them more desirable to a material portion of the cryptocurrency user base this could result in a reduction in demand for Bitcoin, which could have a negative impact on the price of Bitcoin and adversely affect an investment in us. Bitcoin holds a first-to-market advantage over other cryptocurrency. This first-to-market advantage is driven in large part by having the largest user base and, more importantly, the largest combined mining power in use to secure their respective blockchains and transaction verification systems. Having a large mining network results in greater user confidence regarding the security and long-term stability of a cryptocurrency network and its blockchain; as a result, the advantage of more users and miners makes a cryptocurrency more secure, which makes it more attractive to new users and miners, resulting in a network effect that strengthens the first-to-market advantage. As of March 6, 2018, there were over 1,500 alternate cryptocurrencies tracked by CoinMarketCap, having a total market capitalization (including the market capitalization of Bitcoin) of approximately $442 billion, using market prices and total available supply of Bitcoin. Despite the marked first to market advantage of the Bitcoin network over other cryptocurrency networks, it is possible that another cryptocurrency could become materially popular. If a cryptocurrency obtains significant market share (either in market capitalization, mining power or use as a payment technology), this could reduce Bitcoins market share as well as other cryptocurrency we may become involved in and have a negative impact on the demand for, and price of, such cryptocurrency and could adversely affect an investment in us. To the extent that we own cryptocurrency, we are subject to a risk that we will lose the private key necessary to convert it to cash or sell it, or the private key will be hacked . We own cryptocurrency and expect that we will continue to do so. A private key, which is a complex numeric password is necessary to convert cryptocurrency to cash or sell it. While we have established procedures to safeguard our private key, if our procedures are insufficient or if we are hacked, we will irrevocably lose the value of our cryptocurrency. If a foreign third party has already gained access to our system while using our private key the third party may be able to access and manipulate our cryptocurrency. Because cryptocurrency transactions are irrevocable and stolen or incorrectly transferred cryptocurrencies may be irretrievable, any incorrectly executed cryptocurrency transactions could adversely affect an investment in us. Cryptocurrency transactions are not, from an administrative perspective, reversible without the consent and active participation of the recipient of the transaction or, in theory, control or consent of a majority of the processing power on the respective cryptocurrency network. Once a transaction has been verified and recorded in a block that is added to the blockchain, an incorrect transfer of cryptocurrencies or a theft of cryptocurrencies generally will not be reversible, and we may not be capable of seeking compensation for any such transfer or theft since the parties are anonymous. It is possible that, through computer or human error, or through theft or criminal action, our cryptocurrencies could be transferred from us in incorrect amounts or to unauthorized third parties. To the extent that we are unable to seek a corrective transaction with such third party or are incapable of identifying the third party which has received our cryptocurrencies through error or theft, we will be unable to revert or otherwise recover incorrectly transferred cryptocurrencies. The damages from any such loss could adversely affect an investment in us. The Companys Bitcoin may be subject to loss, damage, theft or restriction on access. We believe that the Companys Bitcoin will be an appealing target to hackers or malware distributors seeking to destroy, damage or steal our cryptocurrency. We cannot guarantee that any security software will prevent such loss, damage or theft, whether caused intentionally, accidentally or by act of God. Access to the Companys Bitcoin or private key could be restricted by natural events (such as an earthquake or flood) or human actions (such as a terrorist attack). We cannot currently insure the loss of our Bitcoin. While the Company will continue to seek out opportunities to insure or prevent loss of our Bitcoin we cannot ensure that any developments in insurance or technology will reduce the risk of loss of our Bitcoin. The loss or theft of part or all of the Companys Bitcoin may adversely affect our operations and, consequently, an investment in us. General Risks Because our business model is evolving, we cannot assure you that our business model will be successful. Further, because it is very unlikely that shareholder approval will be required, our management and Board will have broad discretion in determining what businesses we may enter, whether in the blockchain/cryptocurrency area or otherwise. We cannot assure you that it will complete any additional acquisitions or if we do, such acquisitions will be successful. In 2018, we engaged in a number of initiatives in the cryptocurrency field including primarily cryptocurrency mining. We generated some limited income but did so with a negative gross profit of $246,714. Later in the year, in order to remain operational we sold about 80% of our mining equipment for $150,000 incurring a loss on disposal of this equipment of $522,917. As of the date of this Report, the Company which had been hosting our remaining mining equipment continues to host our 40 S-9 miners until December 31, 2019. In order to resume large scale mining activities, we will need to raise sufficient capital in order to either hire personnel or engage in partnership or consulting relations to further our mining business. In addition, as the market for cryptocurrency has been depressed, we have been looking at other business opportunities and entered into an oral understanding with respect to an acquisition with the Target. There are a number of uncertainties with respect to that transaction. If we are unable to close that transaction, we may seek a different kind of acquisition. Alternatively, we may simply cease operations. Because we were not in a position to continue paying our Chief Executive Officer in accordance with his Consulting Agreement, he began looking for other opportunities, and obtained other employment in March 2019 and reduced his compensation with the Company to mirror his part-time status. Because we have such limited management, we may not be able to effectively carry on our business . Mr. Jonathan Read, our Chief Executive Officer, is a party to an oral Consulting Agreement with us paying him $240,000 per year. As the cryptocurrency market remained depressed, Mr. Read realized that the Company would not be in a position to continue paying him that compensation level. Accordingly, for personal reasons he began looking for other opportunities and in March 2019, he became an employee of another corporation. As of March 1, 2019, Mr. Read reduced his compensation to $5,000 per month to reflect his part-time service. His primary duties other than insuring that this Report is filed has been to manage the remaining part of the Companys business, continue seeking financing and furthering efforts to engage in the acquisition of the Target. We have no other employees or consultants other than a part-time Chief Financial Officer whose duties consist of complying with the financial reporting obligations of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Because of this limited management, we may not be in a position to attract financing if we are unable to close the acquisition and may have to cease operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock As a result of our financings, we are obligated to issue a substantial number of additional shares of common stock, which will dilute our present shareholders. In 2018 and 2019 we engaged in a series of borrowings with investors. See