Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the regulatory section under the section of Risk Factors entitled Risk of Future Cryptocurrency Legislation and Regulation. Cryptocurrency Subject to raising additional capital, the Companys cryptocurrency initiatives will compete with other industry participants that focus on investing in and mining of Bitcoin, Ether, and other cryptocurrencies. Market and financial conditions, and other conditions beyond the Companys control, may make it more attractive to invest in other entities, or to invest in cryptocurrency directly. Companies have raised substantial capital this year seeking to enter the cryptocurrency business. Our lack of capital is a competitive disadvantage. Mining The business of mining of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency is extremely competitive. Over the last several years as costs have spiked and the price of Bitcoin increased, large sources of capital have entered the mining business. This factor, as well as the prior experience and technical capabilities of our competitors, puts us at a competitive disadvantage. Cryptocurrency Software Business If we acquire the License our potential competitors may have greater resources, longer histories, and lower cost operations. Several other companies offer cryptocurrency software which provides users with the ability to buy, sell, and access important cryptocurrency information. They may secure better terms from server suppliers and devote more resources to technology infrastructure. Other companies may also enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Employees We currently have one full time employee, our Chief Executive Officer. Our Chief Financial Officer is a part-time contractor. Regulation Because we will buy, hold, and sell cryptocurrency, we are subject to numerous federal and state laws around the world regarding cryptocurrency. The scope of these regulations are continuing to evolve, and they may be inconsistent among the locations in which we operate and our users reside. Compliance with these rules may be difficult and costly, and if we fail to comply, we could face liability under these statutes and legal or administrative actions by government entities and private litigants. See Risk Factors below, for further discussion of the risks we face. Facilities See Item 2. Description of Property. 6 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and are not required to provide the information under this item. See the Risk Factors we voluntarily disclose at the end of Item 7 of this Report. Item 2. Description of Property The Companys principal office is located at 7150 E. Camelback Rd. Suite 444 Scottsdale AZ 85251 for which the Company pays monthly rent in the amount of $729. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party to, or otherwise involved in, legal proceedings arising in the normal and ordinary course of business. As of the date of this Report, we are not aware of any proceeding, threatened or pending, against us which, if determined adversely, would have a material effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information The common stock of the Company is quoted on the OTCQB under the symbol of TFVR. The following table sets forth the range of high and low bid prices during each quarter for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The over-the-counter market quotations may reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail market-up, markdown or commission and may not represent actual transactions. The market information was obtained from the OTCQB. Prices have been adjusted for the 1-for-10 reverse stock split effective November 21, 2016. Year Ended December 31, 2017 High Low Quarter ended March 31, 2017 $ 0.85 $ 0.20 Quarter ended June 30, 2017 $ 0.55 $ 0.03 Quarter ended September 30, 2017 $ 0.06 $ 0.02 Quarter ended December 31, 2017 $ 0.19 $ 0.01 Year Ended December 31, 2016 High Low Quarter ended March 31, 2016 $ 0.60 $ 0.20 Quarter ended June 30, 2016 $ 0.50 $ 0.40 Quarter ended September 30, 2016 $ 0.80 $ 0.40 Quarter ended December 31, 2016 $ 2.50 $ 0.40 Dividends We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay such dividends in the foreseeable future. Our board of directors (the Board) will determine our future dividend policy on the basis of many factors, including results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and state law regulating the payment and distribution of dividends. Shareholders As of April 3, 2018, there were 155,601,804 shares of common stock outstanding, held by approximately 557 shareholders of record. In addition, as of April 3, 2018, there were approximately 195,382 shares of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. Transfer Agent The Transfer Agent for the Company's Common Stock is Equity Stock Transfer, 237 W 37 th Street, Suite 601, New York, New York 10018. 7 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities We have previously disclosed all sales of securities without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act), other than the following: On January 20, 2017, the Company issued 50,000 shares of the Companys common stock to a third party for services to be rendered. On April 27, 2017, the Company issued 1,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock to a third party for services to be rendered. On April 27, 2017, the Company issued 25,000 shares of the Companys common stock to a third party for services to be rendered. In connection with the conversion of the Companys Convertible Series E Preferred Stock into shares of the Companys common stock the Company has issued a total of 108,332,000 shares of common stock on various dates between January 4, 2018 and April 2, 2018. All the shares issued in connection with the transactions listed above were exempt from registration under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act) and Rule 506(b) thereunder as transactions not involving a public offering. Each of the third parties acquired their shares for investment and not with a view to distribution. We reasonably believed that each third party was an accredited investor as defined by Rule 501 under the Act. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Registrant and Affiliated Purchasers We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Item 6. Selected Financial Data None Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections contained herein, including the risk factors and the consolidated financial statements and the related exhibits contained herein. The various sections of this discussion contain a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this Report as well as other matters over which we have no control. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those set forth in this Report. See Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Company Overview The Company is a Nevada corporation. In 2017, we completed the development of TLLCs virtual reality software and failed in our attempt to monetize it. In the fourth quarter of 2017, based upon input from our principal investors who refused to further fund TLLC, we made the decision to terminate TLLC, and our then Chief Executive Officer, who was one of TLLCs founders, resigned. We negotiated the sale of TLLC to its founders and prior key investors in December 2017 and closed the sale on January 3, 2018. On January 4, 2018, we announced our entry into the cryptocurrency business and we are currently pursuing business ventures in the cryptocurrency business and have initiated the mining of Bitcoins. Results of Operations Total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $933 and $203,640, respectively. The revenue in 2016 was due to a one-time project completed for a related party. The revenue in 2017 was due to the limited release of our virtual reality business platform. The Results of Operations refers to our legacy TLLC virtual reality business. Operating expenses in the year ended December 31, 2017 amounted to $2,688,824 as compared to $1,655,948 for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in operating expenses is due to an increase in operations of TLLC for the year ended 2017 compared to the year ended 2016. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $1,128,827 compared to a loss of $3,376,775 for the year ended December 31, 2016. This difference is primarily due to the post-merger operational scale-up which was offset by a $4,193,081 non-cash gain in the fair value of the warrants issued to investors. Investors should understand that these warrants either create a non-cash gain or loss which is inverse to the price of the Companys common stock. Because the price was lower on December 31, 2017 than on December 31, 2016, the resulting difference is non-cash income. Our operating loss for 2017 increased to $2,688,171 from $1,655,948 for 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 3, 2018, we had approximately $1.15 million in cash which is sufficient working capital to support operations for the next 12 months. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available or if available, on terms that will be acceptable. However, we have $1,826,579 of Convertible Notes due in April 2019 which require payment of 120% of principal and interest. Going Concern The Company has incurred losses since inception and requires additional funding for future operating activities. The Companys activities are not generating a level of revenue sufficient to fund its current operating activities. These factors create an uncertainty as to how the Company will fund its operations and maintain sufficient cash flow to operate as a going concern. The combination of these factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Companys ability to meet its cash requirements in the next year is dependent upon obtaining additional financing. If this is not achieved, the Company may be unable to obtain sufficient cash flow to fund its operations and obligations, and as a result there is substantial doubt the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, and accordingly, do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts; nor do they include adjustments to the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue operations or be required to sell its assets. 8 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not engage in any activities involving variable interest entities or off-balance sheet arrangements. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following Risk Factors before deciding whether to invest in our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations or our financial condition. If any of the events discussed in the Risk Factors below occur, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the value and marketability of the common stock could decline. You should recognize that we have been unable to generate material revenues from our legacy business. As a result, we made the decision to enter the blockchain and cryptocurrency business, a business which is subject to special risks described below Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition If we cannot complete a financing in the near future, we will be required to cease operations. We had net income of $1,128,827 during the year ended December 31, 2017. However, the Company has a history of incurring losses. The Company has an accumulated deficit of $2,740,558 as of December 31, 2017. As of April 3, 2018, we have approximately $1.15 million in cash available and based on our estimated current liabilities, our working capital is approximately $1.1million. We expect that we can manage our accounts payable and sustain operations until March 2019. To remain operational beyond that time, we must complete a financing. Because small companies like ours generally face more obstacles in obtaining financing, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in raising additional capital if needed. Further, if we complete a financing it may be very dilutive to shareholders. Our ability to continue as a going concern is in doubt unless we obtain adequate new debt or equity financing and achieve sufficient sales levels. As noted above, we have incurred significant net losses to date. We anticipate that we will continue to lose money for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have negative cash flows from operations and no expectations of revenue in the near future. Our continued existence is dependent upon generating sufficient working capital and obtaining adequate new debt or equity financing. Because of our continuing losses, without improvements in our cash flow from operations or new financing, we may have to continue to restrict our expenditures. Working capital limitations may impinge on our day-to-day operations, which may contribute to continued operating losses. Because of the recent declines in the price of our common stock, third parties have declined to do business with us. As of the close of business on April 3, 2018, the price of our common stock was $0.008 as reported on the OTCQB. The holders of our Series E Preferred Stock may convert their Series E Preferred Stock into a large number of shares of our common stock which may cause the price of our common stock to stay below $0.01. Because of the recent large decline in the price of our common stock, we have faced the loss of pending business opportunities and reluctance by third parties to enter into business with us. As a result of our low stock price, we may continue to lose business opportunities in the future. If our stock price does not increase or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties, we likely will be unable to pay our debt which is due in April 2019. Risk of Future Cryptocurrency Legislation and Regulation Because of sharp run ups in the price of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and the recent declines, as well as a number of fraudulent and other wrongful campaigns affecting cryptocurrency, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and, other federal regulators and state regulators, and foreign authorities have recently increased their focus on cryptocurrency issuances and trading and it is likely that there will be future legislation and new rules, which may adversely affect the business of the Company. In public speeches, the Chairman of the SEC has focused substantial attention and concerns related to the issuance and trading of cryptocurrency. The SEC has also filed lawsuits, suspended trading of cryptocurrency companies, taken administrative action to stop an initial coin offering (ICO) and is reportedly issuing subpoenas relating to promotion of ICOs. While the Company cannot predict what kind of legislation and regulation may be enacted in the future, it is possible that any such legislation and regulation may adversely affect the Company which could cause our stock price to fall sharply. 9 If regulatory changes or interpretations require the regulation of cryptocurrency under the Act and the Company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the 1940 Act) by the SEC, we may be required to register and comply with such regulations, which may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses to us. Current and future legislation, the SEC rulemaking and other regulatory developments, including interpretations released by a regulatory authority, may impact the manner in which cryptocurrency is treated for classification and clearing purposes. The SECs July 25, 2017 Report of Investigation Pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: The DAO (the Report) expressed its view that cryptocurrencies may be securities depending on the facts and circumstances. We are not aware of any rules that have been proposed to regulate cryptocurrency as securities. We cannot be certain as to how future regulatory developments will impact the treatment of cryptocurrency under the law. Such additional registrations may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in us. If we determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease certain of our operations. Any such action may adversely affect an investment in us. To the extent that cryptocurrencies including Ether and any other cryptocurrencies we may own are deemed by the SEC to fall within the definition of a security, we may be required to register and comply with additional regulation under the 1940 Act, including additional periodic reporting and disclosure standards and requirements and the registration of our Company as an investment company. Further, we have acquired a minority interest in a cryptocurrency business which interest is a security. Because the 40% test under the 1940 Act includes this minority interest and the Ether we own, we are limited in our future activities with respect to acquisitions of minority interests in businesses and our ownership of cryptocurrencies. In addition, as our percentage ownership of securities increases, the volatility of Ether or other cryptocurrencies we own may cause us to inadvertently cross this 40% threshold. While we would have one-year to cure a violation, this can only occur once in a three-year period. Additionally, one or more states may conclude that Ether, Bitcoin and the other cryptocurrencies we may own are a security under state securities laws which would require registration under state laws including merit review laws which would adversely impact us since we would likely not comply. Some states including California define the term investment contract more strictly than the SEC. Such additional registrations may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses of our Company, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in our Company. If we determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease all or certain parts of our operations. Any such action would likely adversely affect an investment in us and investors may suffer a complete loss of their investment. If regulatory changes or actions occur, it may restrict the use of virtual currency in a manner that adversely affects an investment in us. Until recently, little or no regulatory attention has been directed toward Bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies and the markets where they trade by U.S. federal and state governments, foreign governments and self-regulatory agencies. As Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency have grown in popularity and in market size and ICOs which tend to be securities, the SEC, Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress and certain other U.S. agencies (e.g., the CFTC, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation) have questioned whether ICOs and cryptocurrencies are securities. Based on enforcement actions brought by the SEC and speeches by its Chairman, it seems clear that ICOs are, in almost all cases, securities. The Company does not intend to acquire ICOs because they are securities and, with one exception not applicable to the Company, sold in violation of the federal securities laws. On July 25, 2017, the SEC issued its Report which concluded that cryptocurrencies issued for the purpose of raising funds may be securities within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The Report focused on the activities of a virtual organization which offered tokens in exchange for Ether which is the second largest reported cryptocurrency. The Report emphasized that whether a cryptocurrency is a security is based on the facts and circumstances. Although the Companys activities are not focused on using cryptocurrency to raise capital or assisting others that do so, the federal securities laws are very broad, and there can be no assurances that the SEC will not take enforcement action against the Company in the future including for the sale of unregistered securities in violation of the Act or acting as an unregistered investment company in violation of the 1940 Act. The SEC has taken various actions against persons or entities misusing Bitcoin in connection with fraudulent schemes ( i.e. , Ponzi scheme), inaccurate and inadequate publicly disseminated information, and the offering of unregistered securities. More recently, the SEC suspended trading a number of cryptocurrencies public companies. To the extent Bitcoin is determined to be a security or to the extent that a US or foreign government or quasi-governmental agency exerts regulatory authority over the trading and ownership, trading or ownership in Bitcoin, an investment in us may be adversely affected. Very recently there has been much discussion concerning the need for legislation and underlying regulation to address these concerns. Local state regulators such as the New York State Department of Financial Services (the NYSDFS) have also initiated examinations of Bitcoin, the Bitcoin Network and the regulation thereof. In 2015 the NYSDFS issued its final BitLicense regulatory framework. The BitLicense regulates the conduct of businesses that are involved in virtual currencies in New York or with New York customers and prohibits any person or entity involved in such activity to conduct activities without a license. As more states regulate cryptocurrency investing and trading, we may be required to comply with these regulations or cease operation. A similar message is being expressed overseas by regulators. While the Company cannot predict what kind of legislation and regulation may be enacted in the future, it is possible that any such legislation and regulation may adversely affect the Company which could cause our stock price to fall sharply. Bitcoin currently faces an uncertain regulatory landscape in not only the United States but also in many foreign jurisdictions such as the European Union, China and Russia. While certain governments such as Germany, where the Ministry of Finance has declared Bitcoin to be Rechnungseinheiten (a form of private money that is recognized as a unit of account, but not recognized in the same manner as fiat currency), have issued guidance as to how to treat Bitcoin, most regulatory bodies have not yet issued official statements regarding intention to regulate or determinations on regulation of Bitcoin, the Bitcoin Network and Bitcoin users. Some countries such as Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, and Cambodia have banned the trading or possession of cryptocurrencies or have issued reports that possessing cryptocurrencies may not be legal. Other Countries, such as South Korea, have not banned cryptocurrencies but have made statements that ICOs would be prohibited as a fundraising tool. The effect of any future regulatory change on us, Bitcoins, or other cryptocurrency is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and adverse to us and could adversely affect an investment in us. 10 If cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether are found to be securities, our business model may not be successful. Bitcoin is the oldest and most well-known form of cryptocurrency. Bitcoin, Ether, and other forms of cryptocurrencies have been the source of much regulatory consternation, resulting in differing definitional outcomes without a single unifying statement. When the interests of investor protection are paramount, for example in the offer or sale of ICO tokens, the SEC has no difficulty concluding that the token offerings are securities under the Howey test as stated by the United States Supreme Court. As such, ICO offerings would require registration under the Act or an available exemption therefrom for offers or sales in the United States to be lawful. Section 5 of the Act provides that, unless a registration statement is in effect as to a security or it is exempt, it is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to engage in the offer or sale of securities. To date, we are not aware of any court that has considered whether or not any forms of cryptocurrency are involved in the offer and sale of a security. In contrast, the SECs Chairman has stated that all ICOs of which he is aware involve the sale of a security. In any event, our counsel has advised us that it does not believe that Bitcoin is a security. Although we do not believe our activities require registration for us to conduct such activities, the SEC or a state securities regulator may challenge our position, and we may face regulation under the Act or the 1940 Act. Such regulation or the inability to meet the requirements to continue operations, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. If Bitcoin were held to be a security, we may be exposed to liabilities to the SEC. We may face similar issues with various state securities regulators who may interpret our actions as requiring registration under state securities laws. If we acquire cryptocurrencies which are securities, even unintentionally, we may violate the 1940 Act and incur potential third-party liabilities The Company intends to comply with the 1940 Act in all respects. To that end, if the Company acquires cryptocurrencies which are determined to constitute investment securities of a kind that subject the Company to registration and reporting under the 1940 Act, the Company will limit its holdings of securities to less than 40% of its assets (excluding cash). Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act defines investment company to mean any issuer that is engaged in the business of investing in securities, having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuers total assets (exclusive of cash). If we violate this 40% limit, we will have one-year to cure by getting our investment securities below the 40% test. However, we may only do this every three years. What complicates this is (i) we may inadvertently surpass the 40% limit due to a spike in the price of a security we own or (ii) a court or the SEC administratively may rule that cryptocurrencies we own are securities. If we ever are required to register as an investment company, we may be required to cease operations. If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as a money services business under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act or under state regulations, we may be required to register and comply with such regulations, the required registrations, licensure and regulatory compliance steps may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses to us or cause us to cease operating in the area which requires registration. The Company is engaged in a business activity that involves transmitting cryptocurrency. Although the Company does not feel this business activity categorizes it as a Money Services Business (MSB) or Money Transmitter (MT) under regulations promulgated by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) under the Bank Secrecy Act or any other applicable state MSB or MT law changing regulations or regulatory interpretations of the Companys business activities may require it to register and comply with MSB and/or MT regulations. In the event the Company is required to register as a MSB or MT, the Company may be required to obtain MSB or MT licensure and take regulatory compliance steps including implementing anti-money laundering programs, reporting to FinCEN or a state regulatory authority regarding the Companys MSB or MT business, and maintaining certain records. Additionally, in the event that companies that we do business with are not properly registered, our business will be adversely affected and we may be liable for being an unlicensed MSB or MT. Currently, multiple states have finalized or proposed regulatory frameworks for businesses conducting cryptocurrency business activities and have made public statements indicating cryptocurrency businesses may be required to seek licenses as MSBs or MTs in the near future. The effect of any future regulatory change on us, Bitcoins, or other cryptocurrencies is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and adverse to us and could adversely affect an investment in us. To the extent that the activities of the Company cause it to be deemed a MSB or MT or equivalent designation the Company may be required to seek a license or otherwise register with the U.S. Department of Treasury or a state regulator and comply with state regulations that may include the implementation of anti-money laundering programs, maintenance of certain records and other operational requirements. In addition to New Yorks BitLicense framework for businesses that conduct cryptocurrency business activity, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors has proposed a model form of state level cryptocurrency regulation and additional state regulators including those from California, Idaho, Virginia, Kansas, Texas, South Dakota and Washington have made public statements indicating that cryptocurrency businesses may be required to seek licenses as MSBs or MTs. In July 2016, North Carolina updated the law to define cryptocurrency and the activities that trigger licensure in a business-friendly approach that encourages companies to use cryptocurrency and blockchain technology. Specifically, the North Carolina law does not require miners or software providers to obtain a license for multi-signature software, smart contract platforms, smart property, colored coins and non-hosted, non-custodial wallets. Starting January 1, 2016, New Hampshire requires anyone who exchanges a cryptocurrency for another currency must become a licensed and bonded MT. Washington recently passed legislation requiring that cryptocurrency exchanges be registered as MSBs or MTs, that cryptocurrency exchanges agree to third-party security audits of their transmission systems, and that they post surety bonds to cover the cost of certain customer claims. In numerous other states, including Connecticut and New Jersey, legislation is being proposed or has been introduced regarding the treatment of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. The Company will continue to monitor for developments in such legislation, guidance or regulations. Regulators in Missouri and New York have brought cases against businesses or individuals for operating unlicensed MSBs or MTs relating to the transmission of cryptocurrency. Additionally, federal regulators have investigated and prosecuted cases in Ohio and Michigan relating to unlicensed MSBs or MTs. FinCEN recently announced that mining and investing in cryptocurrency for personal use does not constitute activity requiring a MSB or MT license. If we are deemed to be a MSB or MT, the Company may decide to cease operations or may not be capable with complying with certain federal or state regulatory obligations applicable to MSBs and MTs. Any termination of Company operations in response to changed regulatory circumstances or interpretations at the federal or state levels will adversely affect our business and your investment in the Company. 11 It may be illegal now, or in the future, to acquire, own, hold, sell or use cryptocurrencies in one or more countries, and ownership of, holding or trading in our securities may also be considered illegal and subject to sanction. Although cryptocurrencies are currently not regulated or are lightly regulated in most countries, including the United States, one or more countries such as China, South Korea or Russia may take regulatory actions in the future that severely restricts the right to acquire, own, hold, sell or use cryptocurrencies or to exchange cryptocurrencies for fiat currency. Such an action may also result in the restriction of ownership, holding or trading in our securities. Some countries such as Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, and Cambodia have banned the trading or possession of cryptocurrencies or have issued reports that possessing cryptocurrencies may not be legal. Such restrictions may adversely affect an investment in us, if we elect to do business outside of the United States. If federal or state legislatures or agencies initiate or release tax determinations that change the classification of cryptocurrency as property for tax purposes (in the context of when such Bitcoins are held as an investment), such determination could have a negative tax consequence on our Company or our shareholders. Current Internal Revenue Service (IRS) guidance indicates that cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin should be treated and taxed as property, and that transactions involving the payment of Bitcoin for goods and services should be treated as barter transactions. While this treatment creates a potential tax reporting requirement for any circumstance where the ownership of the cryptocurrency passes from one person to another, usually by means of cryptocurrency transactions (including off-blockchain transactions), it preserves the right to apply capital gains treatment to those transactions. On December 5, 2014, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance issued guidance regarding the application of state tax law to cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin. The agency determined that New York State would follow the IRS guidance with respect to the treatment of cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin for state income tax purposes. Furthermore, they defined cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin to be a form of intangible property, meaning the purchase and sale of Bitcoin for fiat currency is not subject to state income tax (although transactions of Bitcoin for other goods and services may be subject to sales tax under barter transaction treatment). It is unclear if other states will follow the guidance of the IRS and the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance with respect to the treatment of cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin for income tax and sales tax purposes. If a state adopts a different treatment, such treatment may have negative consequences including the imposition of a greater tax burden on investors in Bitcoin or imposing a greater cost on the acquisition and disposition of Bitcoin, generally; in either case potentially having a negative effect on prices in the cryptocurrency exchange market and may adversely affect an investment in our Company. Foreign jurisdictions may also elect to treat cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin differently for tax purposes than the IRS or the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance. To the extent that a foreign jurisdiction with a significant share of the market of Bitcoin users imposes onerous tax burdens on Bitcoin users, or imposes sales or value added tax on purchases and sales of Bitcoin for fiat currency, such actions could result in decreased demand for Bitcoin in such jurisdiction, which could impact the price of Bitcoin or other cryptocurrency and negatively impact an investment in our Company. Since there has been limited precedent set for financial accounting or taxation of cryptocurrencies it is unclear how we will be required to account for cryptocurrency transactions and the taxation of our businesses. There is currently no authoritative literature under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States which specifically addresses the accounting for cryptocurrency. Therefore, by analogy, we intend to record cryptocurrency similar to financial instruments under ASC 825, Financial Instruments, because the economic nature of these cryptocurrency is most closely related to a financial instrument such as an investment in a foreign currency. In 2014, the IRS issued guidance in Notice 2014-21 that classified cryptocurrency as property, not currency, for federal income tax purposes. But according to the requirements of the Fair Trade and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, which requires foreign financial institutions to provide the IRS with information about accounts held by U.S. taxpayers or foreign entities controlled by U.S. taxpayers, cryptocurrency exchanges, in the ordinary course of doing business, are considered financial institutions. On November 30, 2016, a federal judge in the Northern District of California granted an IRS application to serve a John Doe summons on Coinbase Inc., which operates a cryptocurrency wallet and exchange business. The summons asked Coinbase to identify all U.S. customers who transferred convertible cryptocurrency from 2013 to 2015. The IRS is trying to get cryptocurrency owners to report the value of their wallets to the federal government and the IRS is treating cryptocurrency as both property and currency. We believe that all of our cryptocurrency activities will be accounted for on the same basis regardless of the form of cryptocurrency. A change in regulatory or financial accounting standards or interpretation by the IRS or accounting standards or the SEC could result in changes in our accounting treatment, taxation and the necessity to restate our financial statements. Such a restatement could negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. Further, actions by the IRS or other regulators which impinge on the anonymity of cryptocurrency may adversely affect our future business and prospects and reduce the value of our cryptocurrency. 12 Risks Concerning Cryptocurrency Mining Because of a supply shortage, we may be unable to purchase adequate computer equipment to mine cryptocurrency at a competitive level. Mining cryptocurrency requires running high-end computers which process complex algorithms to add to the blockchain. Because mining cryptocurrency requires large amounts of computer processing power, there is a worldwide shortage for computer components which can successfully mine cryptocurrency. There is a worldwide shortage for high-end graphics cards which can be enabled to function as computer processors for mining cryptocurrency. Further, other types of computer components, which can be used for mining, are in short supply. As more individuals enter the mining business the demand for components rises. Additionally, as more miners engage in mining the ability to successfully mine cryptocurrency requires more powerful components. If we are unable to obtain adequate components to mine cryptocurrency we will be unable to engage in mining. As such, we may be unable to acquire the components we need to successfully mine cryptocurrency which could have an adverse price on our stock. If we cannot secure affordable electric power, our mining business will not be successful. Mining cryptocurrency requires a substantial amount of electricity in order to power the computers, commonly referred to as mining rigs, which mine cryptocurrency. Locations offering cheap mining electricity, both within the United States and internationally, have been historically targeted by groups of people interested in mining. T he mining industry has witnessed a change from small miners operating from their homes to large mining farms operated by companies with substantial capital, computer resources and other capabilities and competitive advantages. The surge in population to these areas caused by new mining activity has caused electricity prices to increase for local residents. In reaction to electricity prices rising, local officials in some areas have taken action to ban or restrict certain aspects of mining. If we are unable to locate areas with cheap electricity costs which are feasible for mining or if the electricity costs where we have a mining rig increase in value or if the area in which we operate a mining rig passes ordinances which restrict our mining activities we may be unable to mine cryptocurrency in a way that is profitable which could have an adverse price on our stock. If a malicious actor or botnet obtains control in excess of 50% of the processing power active on the Bitcoin network, it is possible that such actor or botnet could manipulate the blockchain in a manner that adversely affects an investment in us. If a malicious actor or botnet (a volunteer or hacked collection of computers controlled by networked software coordinating the actions of the computers) obtains a majority of the processing power dedicated to mining on the Bitcoin network, including the Bitcoin network, it may be able to alter the blockchain by constructing alternate blocks if it is able to solve for such blocks faster than the remainder of the miners on the blockchain can add valid blocks and could control, exclude or modify the ordering of transactions, though it could not generate new Bitcoin or transactions using such control. The approach towards and possible crossing of the 50% threshold indicate a greater risk that a single mining pool could exert authority over the validation of Bitcoin transactions. To the extent that the Bitcoin ecosystems do not act to ensure greater decentralization of Bitcoin mining processing power, the feasibility of a malicious actor obtaining in excess of 50% of the processing power on the Bitcoin network (e.g., through control of a large mining pool or through hacking such a mining pool) will increase, which may adversely impact an investment in us. If the award of Bitcoin for solving blocks and transaction fees for recording transactions are not sufficiently high to incentivize miners, miners may cease expending hashrate to solve blocks and confirmations of transactions on the blockchain could be slowed temporarily. A reduction in the hashrate expended by miners on the Bitcoin network could increase the likelihood of a malicious actor obtaining control in excess of 50% of the aggregate hashrate active on such network or the blockchain, potentially permitting such actor to manipulate the blockchain in a manner that adversely affects an investment in us. Bitcoin miners record transactions when they solve for and add blocks of information to the blockchain. When a miner solves for a block, it creates that block. Typically, Bitcoin transactions will be recorded in the next chronological block if the spending party has an internet connection and at least one minute has passed between the transactions data packet transmission and the solution of the next block. If a transaction is not recorded in the next chronological block, it is usually recorded in the next block thereafter. As the award of new Bitcoin for solving blocks declines, and if transaction fees are not sufficiently high, miners may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining and may cease their mining operations. Any reduction in confidence in the confirmation process or aggregate speed of completing transactions on the Bitcoin network (the hashrate) may negatively impact the value of Bitcoin, which will adversely impact an investment in us. To the extent Bitcoin mining operations experience low profit margins, their operators are more likely to immediately sell their Bitcoin earned by mining in the Bitcoin exchange market, resulting in a reduction in the price of Bitcoin that could adversely impact an investment in us. Over the past two years, professionalized Bitcoin mining operations have largely replaced individual users mining with computer processors, graphics processing units and first-generation servers. Professionalized mining operations are of a greater scale than prior miners and have more defined, regular expenses and liabilities. These regular expenses and liabilities may require professionalized mining operations to immediately sell Bitcoin earned from mining operations on the Bitcoin exchange market, which is different than individual miners in past years who didnt face pressures to immediately divest of their Bitcoin. The immediate selling of newly mined Bitcoin greatly increases the supply of Bitcoin on the Bitcoin exchange market, creating downward pressure on the price of each Bitcoin. The extent to which the value of Bitcoin mined by a professionalized mining operation exceeds the allocable capital and operating costs determines the profit margin of such operation. A professionalized mining operation may be more likely to sell a higher percentage of its newly mined Bitcoin rapidly if it is operating at a low profit marginand it may partially or completely cease operations if its profit margin is negative. Lower Bitcoin prices could result in further tightening of profit margins, particularly for professionalized mining operations with higher costs and more limited capital reserves, creating a network effect that may further reduce the price of Bitcoin until mining operations with higher operating costs become unprofitable and remove mining power from the respective Bitcoin network. The network effect of reduced profit margins resulting in greater sales of newly mined Bitcoin could result in a reduction in the price of Bitcoin that could adversely impact an investment in us. 13 To the extent that any miners cease to record transactions in solved blocks, transactions that do not include the payment of a transaction fee will not be recorded on the blockchain until a block is solved by a miner who does not require the payment of transaction fees. Any widespread delays in the recording of transactions could result in a loss of confidence in that cryptocurrency network, which could adversely impact an investment in us. To the extent that any miners cease to record transaction in solved blocks, such transactions will not be recorded on the blockchain. Currently, there are no known incentives for miners to elect to exclude the recording of transactions in solved blocks; however, to the extent that any such incentives arise (e.g., a collective movement among miners or one or more mining pools forcing Bitcoin users to pay transaction fees as a substitute for or in addition to the award of new Bitcoins upon the solving of a block), actions of miners solving a significant number of blocks could delay the recording and confirmation of transactions on the blockchain. Any systemic delays in the recording and confirmation of transactions on the blockchain could result in greater exposure to double-spending transactions and a loss of confidence in certain or all cryptocurrency networks, which could adversely impact an investment in us. The acceptance of cryptocurrency network software patches or upgrades by a significant, but not overwhelming, percentage of the users and miners in any cryptocurrency network could result in a fork in the respective blockchain, resulting in the operation of two separate networks until such time as the forked blockchains are merged. The temporary or permanent existence of forked blockchains could adversely impact an investment in us . Cryptocurrency networks are open source projects and, although there is an influential group of leaders in, for example, the Bitcoin network community known as the Core Developers, there is no official developer or group of developers that formally controls the Bitcoin network. Any individual can download the Bitcoin network software and make any desired modifications, which are proposed to users and miners on the Bitcoin network through software downloads and upgrades, typically posted to the Bitcoin development forum on GitHub.com. A substantial majority of miners and Bitcoin users must consent to those software modifications by downloading the altered software or upgrade that implements the changes; otherwise, the changes do not become a part of the Bitcoin network. Since the Bitcoin networks inception, changes to the Bitcoin network have been accepted by the vast majority of users and miners, ensuring that the Bitcoin network remains a coherent economic system; however, a developer or group of developers could potentially propose a modification to the Bitcoin network that is not accepted by a vast majority of miners and users, but that is nonetheless accepted by a substantial population of participants in the Bitcoin network. In such a case, and if the modification is material and/or not backwards compatible with the prior version of Bitcoin network software, a fork in the blockchain could develop and two separate Bitcoin networks could result, one running the pre-modification software program and the other running the modified version (i.e., a second Bitcoin network). Such a fork in the blockchain typically would be addressed by community-led efforts to merge the forked blockchains, and several prior forks have been so merged. This kind of split in the Bitcoin network could materially and adversely impact an investment in us and, in the worst case scenario, harm the sustainability of the Bitcoin networks economy. Because there is a limited supply of Bitcoin, miners may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining Bitcoin and the Company may be unable to use its mining equipment to mine other cryptocurrencies. The current fixed reward for solving a new Bitcoin block is 12.5 Bitcoin per block; the reward decreased from 25 Bitcoin in July 2016. The reward for adding a block to the Bitcoin protocol is halved every 210,000 blocks and it is estimated that it will halve again in about four years. The current Bitcoin protocol permits a total of 21 million Bitcoin to exist. As the number of Bitcoin remaining for mining decreases the processing power required to record new blocks on the blockchain increases. Eventually the processing power required to add a block to the blockchain may exceed the value of the reward for adding a block. Further, at some point, there will be no Bitcoin to mine. Once the processing power required to add a block to the blockchain exceeds the value of the reward for adding a block the Company may need to use its mining equipment to mine other types of cryptocurrency. If the Company is unable to successfully mine other types of cryptocurrency, the Company may have to discontinue its mining operations and sell the Companys mining equipment which may result in a net loss to the Companys mining business. Risks Related to Cryptocurrency The further development and acceptance of cryptocurrency networks and other cryptocurrency, which represent a new and rapidly changing industry, are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of cryptocurrency systems may adversely affect an investment in us . Cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, which may be used to buy and sell goods and services are a new and rapidly evolving industry of which the cryptocurrency networks are prominent, but not unique, parts. The growth of the cryptocurrency industry in general, and the cryptocurrency networks of Bitcoin in particular, are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. There is no assurance that a person who accepts a cryptocurrency as payment today will continue to do so in the future. The factors affecting the further development of the cryptocurrency industry, as well as the cryptocurrency networks, include: continued worldwide growth in the adoption and use of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency; government and quasi-government regulation of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of the cryptocurrency network or similar cryptocurrency systems; the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of the Bitcoin network; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, including new means of using fiat currencies; general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to cryptocurrency; and the impact of regulators focusing on cryptocurrency and the costs associated with such regulatory oversight. A decline in the popularity or acceptance of the cryptocurrency networks of Bitcoin or similar cryptocurrency systems, could adversely affect an investment in us. 14 Because, there is relatively small use of cryptocurrency in the retail and commercial marketplace in comparison to relatively large use by speculators, it may contribute to price volatility that could adversely affect an investment in us. As relatively new products and technologies, cryptocurrency and the blockchain networks on which they exist have only recently become widely accepted as a means of payment for goods and services by some major retail and commercial outlets, and use of cryptocurrency by consumers to pay such retail and commercial outlets remains limited. Conversely, a significant portion of demand for cryptocurrency is generated by speculators and investors seeking to profit from the short- or long-term holding of such cryptocurrency. A lack of expansion of cryptocurrency into retail and commercial markets, or a contraction of such use, may result in increased volatility or a reduction in the price of all or any cryptocurrency, either of which could adversely impact an investment in us. If significant contributors to the Bitcoin network could propose amendments to the networks protocols and software and the amendments are accepted and authorized by such network, it could adversely affect an investment in us. With respect to the Bitcoin network, a small group of individuals contribute to the Bitcoin Core project. These individuals can propose refinements or improvements to the Bitcoin networks source code through one or more software upgrades that alter the protocols and software that govern the Bitcoin network and the properties of Bitcoin, including the irreversibility of transactions and limitations on the mining of new Bitcoin. To the extent that a significant majority of the users and miners on the Bitcoin network install such software upgrade(s), the Bitcoin network would be subject to new protocols and software that may adversely affect an investment in us. In the event a developer or group of developers proposes a modification to the Bitcoin network that is not accepted by a majority of miners and users, but that is nonetheless accepted by a plurality of miners and users, two or more competing and incompatible blockchain implementations could result. This is known as a hard fork which could materially and adversely affect the perceived value of Bitcoin as reflected on one or both incompatible blockchains, which may adversely affect an investment in us. The same risk applies if we diversify our business in the future and make investments in the blockchain and cryptocurrency business. Other generic cryptocurrency-type risks apply if we diversify our investment portfolio. Forks in the Bitcoin network may occur in the future which may affect the value of Bitcoin held by us. On August 1, 2017 Bitcoins blockchain was forked and Bitcoin Cash was created. The fork resulted in a new blockchain being created with a shared history, and a new path forward. Bitcoin Cash has a block size of 8mb and other technical changes. On October 24, 2017, Bitcoins blockchain was forked and Bitcoin Gold was created. The fork resulted in a new blockchain being created with a shared history, and new path forward, Bitcoin Gold has a different proof of work algorithm and other technical changes. The value of the newly created Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Gold may or may not have value in the long run and may affect the price of Bitcoin if interest is shifted away from Bitcoin to the newly created Bitcoin. If a fork occurs on a Bitcoin Network, it may have a negative effect on the value of Bitcoin and may adversely affect an investment in us. Because of our involvement in the blockchain and cryptocurrency business, it is more likely that we may be the target of security breaches, computer viruses and computer hacking attacks, which in turn may harm our business and results of operations. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future. This risk is accentuated because hackers may be more inclined to hack us in anticipation of stealing our cryptocurrency. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract new users. Because the cryptocurrency exchanges on which cryptocurrencies trade are relatively new and, in most cases, largely unregulated, they may be more exposed to fraud and failure than established, regulated exchanges for other products. The cryptocurrency exchanges on which Bitcoin trade are new and, in most cases, largely unregulated. Furthermore, many cryptocurrency exchanges (including several of the most prominent United States dollar denominated cryptocurrency exchanges) do not provide the public with significant information regarding their ownership structure, management teams, corporate practices or regulatory compliance. As a result, the marketplace may lose confidence in, or may experience problems relating to, cryptocurrency exchanges, including prominent exchanges handling a significant portion of the volume of cryptocurrency trading. For example, over the past several years, a number of Bitcoin exchanges have been closed due to fraud, failure or security breaches. In many of these instances, the customers of such Bitcoin exchanges were not compensated or made whole for the partial or complete losses of their account balances in such Bitcoin exchanges. While smaller Bitcoin exchanges are less likely to have the infrastructure and capitalization that make larger Bitcoin exchanges more stable, larger Bitcoin exchanges are more likely to be appealing targets for hacker and malware ( i.e. , software used or programmed by attackers to disrupt computer operation, gather sensitive information or gain access to private computer systems). In January 2018, it was reported that $530 million of cryptocurrency were missing from a Japanese exchange. Further, the collapse of the largest Bitcoin exchange in 2014 suggests that the failure of one component of the overall Bitcoin ecosystem can have consequences for both users of a Bitcoin exchange and the Bitcoin industry as a whole. A lack of stability in the cryptocurrency exchange market and the closure or temporary shutdown of cryptocurrency exchanges due to fraud, business failure, hackers or malware, or government-mandated regulation may reduce confidence in the cryptocurrency networks and result in greater volatility in cryptocurrency values. These potential consequences of a cryptocurrency exchanges failure could adversely affect an investment in us. 15 If political or economic crises motivate large-scale sales of cryptocurrency, it could result in a reduction in some or all cryptocurrency values and adversely affect an investment in us. As an alternative to fiat currencies that are backed by central governments, cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin, which are relatively new, are subject to supply and demand forces based upon the desirability of an alternative, decentralized means of buying and selling goods and services, and it is unclear how such supply and demand will be impacted by geopolitical events. Nevertheless, political or economic crises may motivate large-scale acquisitions or sales of cryptocurrency either globally or locally. Large-scale sales of cryptocurrency would result in a reduction in their value and could adversely affect an investment in us. The recent dramatic drop in the value of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency seems likely to have resulted from substantially selling and possibly small investor panic. Because demand for Bitcoin is driven, in part, by its status as the most prominent and secure cryptocurrency, it is possible that cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin could have features that make them more desirable to a material portion of the cryptocurrency user base this could result in a reduction in demand for Bitcoin, which could have a negative impact on the price of Bitcoin and adversely affect an investment in us. Bitcoin holds a first-to-market advantage over other cryptocurrency. This first-to-market advantage is driven in large part by having the largest user base and, more importantly, the largest combined mining power in use to secure their respective blockchains and transaction verification systems. Having a large mining network results in greater user confidence regarding the security and long-term stability of a cryptocurrency network and its blockchain; as a result, the advantage of more users and miners makes a cryptocurrency more secure, which makes it more attractive to new users and miners, resulting in a network effect that strengthens the first-to-market advantage. As of March 6, 2018, there were over 1,500 alternate cryptocurrencies tracked by CoinMarketCap, having a total market capitalization (including the market capitalization of Bitcoin) of approximately $442 billion, using market prices and total available supply of Bitcoin. Despite the marked first to market advantage of the Bitcoin network over other cryptocurrency networks, it is possible that another cryptocurrency could become materially popular. If a cryptocurrency obtains significant market share (either in market capitalization, mining power or use as a payment technology), this could reduce Bitcoins market share as well as other cryptocurrency we may become involved in and have a negative impact on the demand for, and price of, such cryptocurrency and could adversely affect an investment in us. To the extent that we own cryptocurrency, we are subject to a risk that we will lose the private key necessary to convert it to cash or sell it, or the private key will be hacked . We own cryptocurrency and expect that we will continue to do so. A private key, which is a complex numeric password is necessary to convert cryptocurrency to cash or sell it. While we have established procedures to safeguard our private key, if our procedures are insufficient or if we are hacked, we will irrevocably lose the value of our cryptocurrency. If a foreign third party has already gained access to our system while using our private key the third party may be able to access and manipulate our cryptocurrency. Because cryptocurrency transactions are irrevocable and stolen or incorrectly transferred cryptocurrencies may be irretrievable, any incorrectly executed cryptocurrency transactions could adversely affect an investment in us. Cryptocurrency transactions are not, from an administrative perspective, reversible without the consent and active participation of the recipient of the transaction or, in theory, control or consent of a majority of the processing power on the respective cryptocurrency network. Once a transaction has been verified and recorded in a block that is added to the blockchain, an incorrect transfer of cryptocurrencies or a theft of cryptocurrencies generally will not be reversible, and we may not be capable of seeking compensation for any such transfer or theft since the parties are anonymous. It is possible that, through computer or human error, or through theft or criminal action, our cryptocurrencies could be transferred from us in incorrect amounts or to unauthorized third parties. To the extent that we are unable to seek a corrective transaction with such third party or are incapable of identifying the third party which has received our cryptocurrencies through error or theft, we will be unable to revert or otherwise recover incorrectly transferred cryptocurrencies. The damages from any such loss could adversely affect an investment in us. The Companys Bitcoin may be subject to loss, damage, theft or restriction on access. We believe that the Companys Bitcoin will be an appealing target to hackers or malware distributors seeking to destroy, damage or steal our cryptocurrency. We cannot guarantee that any security software will prevent such loss, damage or theft, whether caused intentionally, accidentally or by act of God. Access to the Companys Bitcoin or private key could be restricted by natural events (such as an earthquake or flood) or human actions (such as a terrorist attack). We cannot currently insure the loss of our Bitcoin. While the Company will continue to seek out opportunities to insure or prevent loss of our Bitcoin we cannot ensure that any developments in insurance or technology will reduce the risk of loss of our Bitcoin. The loss or theft of part or all of the Companys Bitcoin may adversely affect our operations and, consequently, an investment in us. 16 General Risks Because our business model is evolving, we cannot assure you that our business model will be successful. Further, because it is very unlikely that shareholder approval will be required, our management and Board will have broad discretion in determining what businesses we may enter, whether in the blockchain/cryptocurrency area or otherwise. We cannot assure you that it will complete any additional acquisitions or if we do, such acquisitions will be successful. In January 2018, we sold our only subsidiary which was engaged in developing a virtual reality business and began implementing our plan to engage in the cryptocurrency/blockchain business. As our first step into this new business we invested in Ether and began actively exploring various business opportunities in this sector. We have been negotiating with Cryptogram to acquire a minority interest in Cryptogram, provide the owners of Cryptogram with a minority interest in us, and acquire a License to use Cryptograms software and technology. We have not yet entered into any agreement with Cryptogram and we may not acquire the License. Acquiring the License is subject to a number of factors and there can be no assurance that we will acquire the License or be able to monetize the License once acquired. If we are unable to acquire the License there may be a substantial disruption to our business model and we may decide to discontinue our plan to engage in the cryptocurrency/blockchain business. Because our management team has been in place for a very short period, it may be difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risk of success or failure of our business. Jonathan Read, our Chief Executive Officer, has only served on our management team since November 2017, although he previously served on our management team beginning prior to our September 2016 acquisition of a virtual reality company. In addition, while the Company has been in existence and pursuing its business objectives for a long time, our Company transitioned its business to seeking blockchain opportunities in late December 2017. These limited time periods make it difficult to project whether our management team and operations will be successful. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not become profitable. Businesses which grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. Our staff presently consists of our Chief Executive Officer and a part-time Chief Financial Officer. If we continue to grow as rapidly as we anticipate, we will need to expand our management by recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully. Our failure to meet these challenges could cause us to lose money, and your investment could be lost. If we lose the services of our Chief Executive Officer, it could adversely affect our business. Jonathan Read, our Chief Executive Officer, is our only employee. If we were to lose his services, it would pose significant difficulties to the Companys ability to continue operations. In addition, it could be costly and time-consuming to identify individuals to replace him if he were to leave, and our operations would be adversely affected. We do not have life insurance covering Mr. Read. Further, the lack of staff and other management support limits Mr. Reads ability to manage and grow our business. In December 2017, we restructured our capital structure. However, this restructuring was extremely dilutive. As of April 3, 2018, holders of our Series E Convertible Preferred Stock may convert their shares into 195,382,000 shares of common stock. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock As a result of our recent financings including the March Notes financing, we are obligated to issue a substantial number of additional shares of common stock, which will dilute our present shareholders. In March 2018, we closed a financing transaction and issued the March Notes. This transaction obligates us to potentially issue 36,491,228 shares of common stock for the March Notes and an additional 35,087,720 shares of common stock for Warrants issued to the holders of the March Notes. In addition, other Convertible Notes, Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants obligate us to issue shares of common stock. In the future, we may grant additional options, warrants and convertible securities. The exercise, conversion or exchange of options, warrants or convertible securities, including for other securities, will dilute the percentage ownership of our shareholders. The dilutive effect of the exercise or conversion of these securities may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional capital. The holders of these securities may be expected to exercise or convert such options, warrants and convertible securities at a time when we would be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable than such securities or when our Common Stock is trading at a price higher than the exercise or conversion price of the securities. The exercise or conversion of outstanding warrants, options and convertible securities will have a dilutive effect on the securities held by our shareholders. We have in the past, and may in the future, exchange outstanding securities for other securities on terms that are dilutive to the securities held by other shareholders not participating in such exchange. Because our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, brokers cannot generally solicit the purchase of our common stock, which adversely affects its liquidity and market price. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define penny stock to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock on the OTCQB is presently less than $5.00 per share and therefore we are considered a penny stock according to SEC rules. Further, we do not expect our stock price to rise above $5.00 in the immediate future. The penny stock designation requires any broker-dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules limit the ability of broker-dealers to solicit purchases of our common stock and therefore reduce the liquidity of the public market for our shares. Moreover, as a result of apparent regulatory pressure from the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a growing number of broker-dealers decline to permit investors to purchase and sell or otherwise make it difficult to sell shares of penny stocks. The penny stock designation may continue to have a depressive effect upon our common stock price. 17 Because of their share ownership, our former management may be able to exert control over us to the detriment of minority shareholders. Our former executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 21% of our common stock. These shareholders acting together, would be able to control our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing our change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock. If our common stock becomes subject to a chill imposed by the Depository Trust Company (the DTC), your ability to sell your shares may be limited. The DTC acts as a depository or nominee for street name shares that investors deposit with their brokers. DTC in the last several years has increasingly imposed a chill or freeze on the deposit, withdrawal and transfer of common stock of issuers whose common stock trades on the tiers of the OTC Markets like that of the Company. Depending on the type of restriction, a chill or freeze can prevent shareholders from buying or selling shares and prevent companies from raising money. A chill or freeze may remain imposed on a security for a few days or an extended period of time (in at least one instance a number of years). While we have no reason to believe a chill or freeze will be imposed against our common stock in the future, if it were your ability to sell your shares would be limited. In such event, your investment will be adversely affected. Due to factors beyond our control, our stock price may be volatile. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: Regulatory changes including new laws and rules which adversely affect companies in the cryptocurrency business; Factors including the cost of high speed computer serves and the cost of electricity which affect the viability of mining; Prices of cryptocurrencies we may own; Our public disclosure of the terms of any financing which we consummate in the future; Our failure to generate increasing material revenues; Our failure to become profitable; Our failure to raise working capital; Any acquisitions we may consummate; Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new services, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; Changes in our management; The sale of large numbers of shares of common stock which we may register; Short selling activities; or Changes in market valuations of similar companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our managements time and attention, which would otherwise be used to benefit our business. Because we may issue preferred stock without the approval of our shareholders and have other anti-takeover defenses, it may be more difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress our stock price . In general, our Board may issue, without a vote of our shareholders, one or more additional series of preferred stock that have more than one vote per share, although the Companys ability to designate and issue preferred stock is currently restricted by covenants under our agreements with prior investors. Without these restrictions, our Board could issue preferred stock to investors who support us and our management and give effective control of our business to our management. Additionally, issuance of preferred stock could block an acquisition resulting in both a drop in our stock price and a decline in interest of our common stock. This could make it more difficult for shareholders to sell their common stock. This could also cause the market price of our common stock shares to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. Because we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms, it could have a material impact upon the price of our common stock. It is not likely that securities analysts of major brokerage firms will provide research coverage for our common stock since these firms cannot recommend the purchase of our common stock under the penny stock rules referenced in an earlier risk factor. The absence of such coverage limits the likelihood that an active market will develop for our common stock. It may also make it more difficult for us to attract new investors at times when we require additional capital. Since we intend to retain any earnings for development of our business for the foreseeable future, you will likely not receive any dividends for the foreseeable future. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future, as we intend to retain any earnings for development and expansion of our business operations. As a result, you will not receive any dividends on your investment for an indefinite period of time. 18 Our Common Stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuations, which could adversely impact the value of our Common Stock. Until recently, there has been limited trading in our Common Stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our Common Stock will either develop or be maintained. Our Common Stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefore, can offer no assurances that the market for cryptocurrency will be stable or appreciate over time. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock may cause the price of our Common Stock to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our outstanding Common Stock preferred stock, convertible notes issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or other convertible securities, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an overhang and in anticipation of which the market price of our Common Stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, could make it difficult to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. The shares of our restricted Common Stock will be freely tradable upon the earlier of: (i) effectiveness of any registration statement covering such shares and (ii) the date on which such shares may be sold without registration pursuant to Rule 144 (or other applicable exemption) under the Act. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements This Report includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding liquidity, anticipated cash flows, future capital-raising activity, our future acquisition of cryptocurrency, and our potential entry into an agreement with Cryptogram. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Report, including statements regarding our future financial position, liquidity, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, could, target, potential, is likely, will, expect and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in Risk Factors immediately above. Other sections of this Report may include additional factors which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise required by applicable laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements or the risk factors described in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason after the date this Report is filed.