Management's Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with EnergyTek Corp. financial statements and the related notes thereto. The Management's Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Report on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors. Except as required by U.S. securities laws, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial data included elsewhere in this report. See also the notes to our consolidated financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. OVERVIEW EnergyTek Corp., (the Company), is a Nevada corporation. In January 2015 the Company entered into a Joint Venture with Wagley Offshore-Onshore, Inc. to acquire distressed energy assets. In July 2016, the Company entered into an agreement to terminate this Joint Venture and it was dissolved on September 26, 2016. Effective September 13, 2016, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger ("Merger Agreement") through which the Company acquired Timefire, LLC (Timefire), a Phoenix-based virtual reality content developer that is an Arizona Limited Liability Company. As consideration for the merger, the Company issued the equity holders of Timefire a total of 414,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock, and 28,000,000 five year warrants exercisable at $0.058 per share for 100% of the membership interests of Timefire. As a result, the former members of Timefire owned approximately 99% of the then outstanding shares of common stock. The operations of the Company from the acquisition date represent the business of Timefire. Results of Operations Total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $0. Operating expenses in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 amounted to $592,538 as compared to $132,396 for the quarter ended September 30, 2015. The increase in operating expenses is primarily due to expenses related to the merger transaction. The net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $596,824 as compared to $133,083 for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, the difference being primarily due to the merger-related costs. Total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $203,640 as compared to $6,500 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. This is a result of the completion of a software development project for a related party, totaling $202,500. Operating expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 amounted to $762,702 as compared to $299,465 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in operating expenses is primarily due to costs related to the merger transaction as well as increased employee headcount resulting in additional research and development costs. The net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $773,101 as compared to $300,619 for the nine ended September 30, 2015, the difference being primarily due to the merger-related costs and payroll expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our balance sheet as at September 30, 2016 reflects $774,363 in cash and cash equivalents as compared to $3,165 as at December 31, 2015. To date, the Company has incurred operating losses and has incurred negative cash flows from operations. Management is continuing to pursue financing from various sources, including private placements from investors and institutions. Management believes these efforts will contribute toward funding the Companys activities until sufficient revenue can be earned from future operations. Management believes these combined efforts, if successful, will be sufficient to meet its working capital needs and its currently anticipated expenditure levels for the next year. At this time, our Company does not have a commitment from any broker/dealer to provide additional financing, and does not have sufficient working capital to support operations for the next twelve months. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available or if available, on terms that will be acceptable. 13 Going Concern We have not attained profitable operations and are dependent upon obtaining financing to pursue any extensive acquisitions and activities. For these reasons, our auditors stated in their report on our audited financial statements that they have substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, management's estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.