ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial data included elsewhere in this 10-Q. See also the notes to our consolidated financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. The Management's Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements relating to our liquidity, and our plans in the cryptocurrency business. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Report on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors. Investors should review the Risk Factors in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Except as required by U.S. securities laws, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report on Form 10-Q. OVERVIEW The Company is a Nevada corporation incorporated on April 10, 2002. On November 21, 2016, we changed our name to TimefireVR, Inc. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we operated our bitcoin mining business on a reduced basis since we had been required to liquidate mining equipment in order to pay operating expenses. Effective March 1, 2019, our principal officer, Mr. Jonathan Read, Chief Executive Officer, ceased performing full-time services and began working full-time for another business. During the same period, Mr. Read, together with the advice of counsel, oversaw negotiations to effect an acquisition as reflected in Note 11 to our financial statements. We cannot assure you that we will close the acquisition. However, as disclosed in Note 11, we have entered into definitive agreements with the signatures being held in escrow. We expect that immediately after we file this Report, we will complete the acquisition of this private company. Results of Operations The following discussion analyzes our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The following information should be considered together with our financial statements for such periods and the accompanying notes thereto. Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 consisted of $4,813 compared to no revenues for first quarter of 2018. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2019 were $131,530 compared to $636,505 for the first quarter of 2018. The most significant savings were in reduced officer compensation and professional fees. For the quarter ended March 31, 2019, we sustained a loss from continuing operations of $288,468 in contrast to our loss during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 of $1,122,326. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary source of liquidity has been from the issuances of debt financing. The primary uses of cash are payroll related expenses and professional fees. Our balance sheet as of March 31, 2019 reflects that we had $8,920 in cash. We recently borrowed $200,000 issuing $250,000 in convertible notes to two institutional investors. The Notes are due in late July 2019. The financing was provided in anticipation of our closing the acquisition discussed in Note 11 to our financial statements. We have used the proceeds from these two loans to pay expenses but not our indebtedness which is all past due. The Notes have been exchanged for Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and are not outstanding as of the date of this Report. We do not have capital to remain operational for the next 12 months and if the acquisition is not completed, we will be required to cease operations unless the investors provide additional funding for us to continue our bitcoin mining business. Going Concern The Company has incurred losses since inception and requires additional funds for future operating activities. The Companys cryptocurrency mining activity has not reached a level of revenue sufficient to fund its operating activities. These factors create an uncertainty as to how the Company will fund its operations and maintain sufficient cash flow to operate as a going concern. The combination of these factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. 14