ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management's Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with TimefireVR Inc. financial statements and the related notes thereto. The Management's Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Report on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors. Except as required by U.S. securities laws, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial data included elsewhere in this report. See also the notes to our consolidated financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. OVERVIEW The Company is a Nevada corporation. Effective September 13, 2016, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) through which the Company acquired Timefire, LLC, a Phoenix-based virtual reality content developer that is an Arizona Limited Liability Company. As consideration for the Merger, the Company issued the equity holders of Timefire a total of 41,400,000 shares of the Companys common stock, and 2,800,000 five year warrants exercisable at $0.58 per share for 100% of the membership interests of Timefire. As a result, the former members of Timefire owned approximately 99% of the then outstanding shares of common stock. The operations of the Company prior to the acquisition date represent the business of Timefire, LLC. Effective November 21, 2016, the Company effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split and changed our name to TimefireVR Inc. The foregoing numbers give effect to the reverse split. All references to we, our and us refer to the Company and its subsidiaries (including Timefire), unless the context otherwise indicates. Results of Operations Total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was $488 and $0, respectively. The revenue in 2017 was related to our limited software release effective June 15, 2017. Operating expenses in the quarter ended June 30, 2017 amounted to $824,110 as compared to $166,628 for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. The increase in operating expenses is due to a significant operational ramping up post-merger. The net income for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was $458,860 as compared to a net loss of $170,829 for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. This difference is primarily due to the post-merger operational scale-up which was offset by a $1,391,883 change in the fair value of the warrants issued to investors. Investors should understand that these warrants either create a non-cash gain or loss which is inverse to the price of the Companys common stock. Because the price was lower on June 30, 2017 than on March 31, 2017, the resulting difference is non-cash income. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our balance sheet as of June 30, 2017 reflects $10,163 in cash. Management is continuing to pursue financing from various sources, including private placements from investors and institutions. We cannot predict, with certainty, the outcome of our actions to generate liquidity, including the availability of additional debt financing, or whether such actions would generate enough liquidity to satisfy our estimated needs for the next twelve months. At this time, our Company does not have a commitment from any broker/dealer to provide additional financing, and does not have sufficient working capital to support operations for the next twelve months. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available or if available, on terms that will be acceptable. If we can not obtain financing, we will cease operations. Going Concern The Company has incurred losses since inception and requires additional funds for future operating activities. The Companys selling activity has not reached a level of revenue sufficient to fund its operating activities. These factors create an uncertainty as to how the Company will fund its operations and maintain sufficient cash flow to operate as a going concern. The combination of these factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. On July 5, 2017, the Company laid off all non-officer personnel due to lack of available funds. Within a week, the Company was able to bring back four full-time staff members as well as two part-time workers as contractors. Due to the significant reduction in personnel, our ability to continue with product development has been slowed. During the months of July and August 2017, the Company received two advances totaling $80,000 from a related party. These are not evidenced by a promissory note at this time. Until otherwise determined, this is considered a short-term demand obligation. On August 21, 2017, the Company closed on an offering of convertible notes and warrants on terms substantially identical to the March 6, 2017 financing. The purchasers are the same investors as in the March financing except for one person who is a former director that did not participate in this financing. The Company will receive $60,000 in net proceeds from the issuance of $63,158 of convertible notes. The Company must pay $936,000 to retire its convertible notes due September 3, 2017. The Company also borrowed $80,000 from a related party in July and August; the lender was not issued any promissory note but the Company is treating it as a demand obligation. The Company has no finite plans concerning future financing, although it has had preliminary discussions with one investor about a restructuring which would provide some working capital. No terms have been discussed and any financing will be very dilutive to existing shareholders. 12 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.