ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial data included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q. See also the audited financial statements and footnotes in our Current Report Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on July 31, 2019. The Management's Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements relating to our liquidity, and our plans for our business focusing on cloud-based analytics, storage, and services for drones. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Investors should also review the risk factors in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 16, 2019. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update such forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q except as required by federal securities law. Recent Developments The Share Exchange Agreement Effective May 15, 2019, we closed a Share Exchange Agreement (the SEA) with TimeFireVR, Inc., (TimeFire), a Nevada corporation. Under the SEA, we acquired approximately 83.33% of TimeFires outstanding share capital on a fully-diluted basis. We issued: (i) 196,667 shares of our common stock, (ii) 2,169,068 shares of our newly-designated Series A Preferred Stock, and (iii) 4,212,645 shares of our newly-designated Series B Preferred Stock. Our new Series A Preferred Stock is convertible to common stock at a ratio of 8.33 shares of common stock for each share of preferred stock held, and votes together with the common stock on an as-converted basis. The new Series A Preferred Stock will convert automatically to common stock upon the effectiveness of any future reverse split of our common stock. This common stock and Series A Preferred Stock issued under the SEA will constitute approximately 83.33% of our issued and outstanding share capital on a fully-diluted basis. Our new Series B Preferred Stock is convertible to common stock at a ratio of 0.83 shares of common stock for each share of preferred stock held, and votes together with the common stock on an as-converted basis. This Series B Preferred Stock issued under the SEA will constitute approximately 15.64% of our issued and outstanding share capital on a fully-diluted basis. In total, the common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, and Series B Preferred Stock issued under the SEA are valued at $117,754. Red Cat Propware, Inc. On May 15, 2019, we acquired TimeFireVR, Inc., in a $117,754 stock transaction classified as a reverse-merger transaction. The acquisition will provide access to the public markets and support the development of our product platform. In this reverse merger, the financial results of Red Cat Propware, Inc., (the accounting acquirer), have been presented as the continuing operations of the Company since inception. Cash $ 24,704 Goodwill 93,050 Total $ 117,754 The goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to anticipated synergies and benefits from the combination of the two companies, including access to the public markets to raise capital, and is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 12 Plan of Operations Following the acquisition, we are focused on the business operations of Red Cat which is developing products to provide distributed data storage, analytics and related services to the drone industry. The Company plans to utilize blockchain based technologies and offer its solutions as a Software-as-a-Service platform. Potential customers include regulators to track and review flight data, insurance companies for coverage and claims administration, and pilots to maintain compliance with regulations. The Company is targeting the first half of 2020 for the release of its first product, Black Box by Red Cat although no assurances can be provided regarding the actual release date. Results of Operations Three Months Ended October 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018 Revenue We have not generated any revenues since our inception. Operating Expenses During the three months ended October 31, 2019, we incurred research and development expenses totaling $76,724 compared to $112,096 for the three months ended October 31, 2018 resulting in a decrease of $35,372, or 32%. During the 2018 period, a substantial portion of our activities were focused on the research and development of our first product. During the 2019 period, we completed our first fiscal quarter as a publicly traded entity and spent considerable efforts assimilating this change which resulted in a lower percentage allocation of certain operating costs to research and development. During the three months ended October 31, 2019, we incurred general and administrative expenses totaling $139,397 compared to $45,785 for the three months ended October 31, 2018 resulting in an increase of $93,612, or 204%. Professional services costs were significantly higher in the 2019 period which was the first full quarter operating as a publicly traded entity. Net Loss Since we have not generated any revenues to date, the changes in our Net Loss can be explained by the changes in our operating expenses. As we continue to expand our operating activities in preparation for the launch of our first product, Black Box by Red Cat, we expect that operating costs and net losses will continue to increase until we begin generating revenues. Six Months Ended October 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018 Revenue We have not generated any revenues since our inception. Operating Expenses During the six months ended October 31, 2019, we incurred research and development expenses totaling $262,419 compared to $219,764 for the six months ended October 31, 2018, resulting in an increase of $42,655, or 19%. The increase primarily related to higher payroll costs in the 2019 period compared to the 2018 period. During the six months ended October 31, 2019, we incurred general and administrative expenses totaling $275,204 compared to $84,567 for the six months ended October 31, 2018 resulting in an increase of $190,637, or 225%. Professional services costs were significantly higher in the 2019 period during which we completed a reverse merger transaction and became a publicly traded entity. Net Loss Since we have not generated any revenues to date, the changes in our Net Loss can be explained by the changes in our operating expenses. As we continue to expand our operating activities in preparation for the launch of our first product, Black Box by Red Cat, we expect that operating costs and net losses will continue to increase until we begin generating revenues. 13 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $415,848 during the six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $304,433 representing an increase of $111,415, or 37%. This increase in net cash used primarily related to an operating loss which was $233,792 higher in the 2019 period, partially offset by a positive contribution related to changes in operating assets and liabilities of $109,708. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $24,704 during the six months ended October 31, 2019 period compared to $0 during the 2018 six months ended October 31, 2018. The Company acquired $24,704 of cash in connection with a reverse merger acquisition completed in the 2019 period. Financing Activities Net cash used provided by financing activities totaled $152,239 during the six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to $50,000 during the six months ended October 31, 2018, representing an increase of $102,239. Amounts received in both periods related to capital raised from common stock transactions which can vary from period to period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of October 31, 2019, we had current assets totaling $289,533 primarily related to cash balances of $264,533. Current liabilities as of October 31, 2019 totaled $222,957 consisting of accounts payable of $60,895, accrued expenses totaling $9,823, and common stock to be issued of $152,239. Our net working capital as of October 31, 2019 was $66,576. Since inception, we have not generated any revenues. To date, we have funded our operations through private offerings of common stock sourced primarily from individual private investors. We do not have sufficient cash resources to meet our working capital needs for the next 12 months and will require additional capital in order to execute our business plan. Such transactions may be insufficient to fund our cash requirements. In November 2019 we issued a convertible note in the principal amount of $300,000 to one accredited investor and in December 2019 we issued a convertible note in the principal amount of $125,000 to a director and a convertible note in the principal amount of $25,000 to our chief executive officer. (collectively, the Notes). The Notes have a term of 2 years and bear interest at a rate of 12% which accrues and is payable in full when the Notes mature. Interest on the Notes may be paid in cash or in shares of common stock of the Company at the Conversion Price (as defined below).The Notes are convertible into shares of common stock at the holders sole discretion as follows: (A) prior to consummating an equity financing which generates gross proceeds of not less than $3,000,000 (a Qualified Offering), then at the 30 day volume weighted average of the closing price of a share of our common stock as listed or quoted on the market in which the shares are then traded or listed, or (B) after we have consummated a Qualified Offering, at 40% of the price per share of common stock sold in the Qualified Offering (the Conversion Price) . We may, upon 10 business days advance notice, elect to pre-pay the Note, including all accrued interest, in whole or in part, provided that any such prepayment prior to the one-year anniversary of the Note issuance shall be at a price equal to 112% of the then outstanding original principal amount. Upon an event of default, as described in the Notes, the outstanding principal and interest shall become immediately due and payable. Additionally, under the Note, unless waived by the holder, the holder shall not be entitled to convert the Note if such conversion would result in beneficial ownership by the holder and its affiliates of more than 9.99% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company on such date. Until we are able to sustain operations through the sale of products and services, we will continue to fund operations through equity and/or debt transactions. We can provide no assurance that the financing described above will be sufficient to fund our operations until we are able to sustain operations through the sale of products and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that such additional financing, if required, will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. 14 Going Concern We have experienced losses from operations since inception. To date, we have not been able to generate product sales or to become cash flow positive. The success of our business plan during the next 12 months and beyond will be contingent upon generating sufficient revenue to cover our costs of operations and/or upon obtaining additional financing. The report from our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2019 includes an explanatory paragraph stating the Company has recurring net losses from operations, negative operating cash flows, does not yet generate revenue from operations and will need additional working capital for ongoing operations. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We are presently seeking to address these going concern doubts through a number of actions including efforts to (a) raise capital through the public markets, (b) release our first commercial product and (c) pursue acquisitions of complementary, revenue generating companies which are accretive to our operating results. We can provide no assurance that any of these efforts will be successful or, that even if successful, that they will alleviate doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements. A complete summary of these policies is included in the notes to our financial statements. In general, managements estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates made by management. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements unless otherwise disclosed, and the Company does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.