ITEM 2.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve substantial risks and uncertainties including particularly statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, prospective products and services, timing and likelihood of success, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and future results of current and anticipated products and services. These statements involve uncertainties, such as known and unknown risks, and are dependent on other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements we express or imply. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions described under the sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Specific factors that might cause actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to: significant risks, uncertainties and other considerations discussed in this report; operating risks, including supply chain, equipment or system failures, cyber and other malicious attacks and other events that could affect the amounts and timing of revenues and expenses; reputational risks affecting customer confidence or willingness to do business with us; financial market conditions, including the continuation of significant national and global uncertainties that may affect these conditions, and the results of financing efforts; our ability to successfully identify, integrate and complete acquisitions and dispositions, including the integration of the STS Acquisition; our continued ability to successfully access the public markets for debt or equity capital; political, legal, regulatory, governmental, administrative and economic conditions and developments in the United States (U.S.) and other countries in which we operate and, in particular, the impact of recent and future federal, state and local regulatory proceedings and changes, including legislative and regulatory initiatives associated with our products; current and future litigation; competition from other companies with an established position in the markets we have recently entered or are seeking to enter or from other companies who are seeking to enter markets we already serve; our failure to successfully develop products using our technology that are accepted by the markets we serve or intend to serve or the development of new technologies that change the nature of our business or provide our customers with products or services superior to or less expensive than ours; the inability of our strategic plans and goals to expand our geographic markets, customer base and product and service offerings; 30 Table of Contents risks associated with pandemics and other global health emergencies, such as the spread of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) around the world since the first quarter of 2020 which has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets and has created significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies; and risks associated with cyberattacks on international, national, local and Company information infrastructure by rogue businesses or criminal elements or by agents of governments engaged in asymmetric disruptions for competitive, economic, or military reasons. Investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein. Other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change in the future. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Annual Report) and any updates contained herein as well as those set forth in our reports and other filings made with the SEC. General Overview Rekors mission is to become the premier provider of roadway intelligence and data-driven mobility insights on a global scale. As a technology company, we are dedicated to transforming public safety, urban mobility, and transportation management worldwide with our cutting-edge, AI-driven solutions tailored specifically to the unique needs of each. Our commitment to delivering mission-critical solutions for roadway intelligence is driven by our vision of creating smarter, safer, and more sustainable streets for all communities. To achieve this vision, we strive to collect, connect, and organize the world's mobility data, harnessing its full potential to provide in real-time the most essential, actionable and predictive mobility insights. Our innovative approach is designed to make roadway mobility data readily accessible and useful, empowering our customers to make informed decisions and drive meaningful progress towards a better future. Our operations are conducted primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Rekor Recognition Systems, Inc., or ("Rekor Recognition"), Waycare Technologies, Ltd., or (Waycare), and Southern Traffic Services, Inc., or (STS). 31 Table of Contents Roadway Intelligence Rekor has been dedicated to being a leader in roadway intelligence by collecting, connecting, and organizing global mobility data since its inception. Today, our comprehensive portfolio offers multiple cutting-edge Internet of Things ("IoT") devices for roadside data collection, a vast array of curated and integrated data sets from a network of transportation ecosystem data providers, tailored platforms, applications, and data streams. We specialize in collecting and aggregating mobility-related data from multiple sources into our Rekor One roadway intelligence engine, transforming this data into knowledge and actionable insights, and securely distributing those insights to multiple users across our software platforms and applications. Our proprietary technologies use recent advances in artificial intelligence, machine learning, data analysis, edge processing, and communications. They are designed to be integrated into existing roadway and roadway sensor infrastructure to deliver real-time and predictive analytics that address critical challenges in transportation management, public safety, urban mobility, and other key commercial markets. By applying a multi-layer architectural approach and protocols inspired by the Open System Interconnection ("OSI") model, which was instrumental in creating computer operating systems in the 1970s and the internet in the 1980s, we are collaborating with members of the Rekor Partner Network to integrate various transportation infrastructure systems into a cohesive network of roadway intelligence assets and insights. This involves consolidating fragmented and disparate systems, as well as adding new layers of connectivity, to create a unified environment. To achieve this goal, we are working closely with a wide range of stakeholders, including local and federal government agencies, law enforcement, transit providers, infrastructure owners/operators, automotive OEMs, and technology, communications and data providers. At Rekor, we are building a future for our customers where the mobility internet is interactive, generating and distributing real-time transportation intelligence to improve traffic management, public safety, maintenance, and emergency services, and planning agencies, as well as by connected and autonomous vehicles. Our primary objective has been and remains to develop unique and differentiated AI-based and edge-based IoT that will play a central role in facilitating this process, while aligning with key partners in the transportation ecosystem to provide the most comprehensive view of roadways. We will continue to optimize our investments to uniquely combine physical and digital infrastructure that is foundational to a new operating system for the roadways. As agencies plan for and build the transportation network of the future, Rekor expects to play a critical and disproportionately valuable role in meeting the essential need for real-time and predictive roadway intelligence. Roadway Intelligence Powered by Rekor Rekor's cutting-edge technology and domain expertise gives us a position of strength in the emerging field of roadway intelligence. The Rekor One roadway intelligence engine is purpose-built to be a single source of truth, fueled by rich data and powered by AI. With access to multiple sources of data and our award-winning AI-driven innovations, we provide a range of solutions that address diverse use cases across various public and private sector segments. Our platform facilitates the efficient collection, analysis, and distribution of vast amounts of data, unlocking real-time and predictive operational insights like never before. Using our advanced technology and centralized platform, we are well-positioned to provide a single-source of truth for roadway intelligence, and help governments and businesses turn infrastructure data into actionable insights that increase mobility and safety, drive revenue, and power innovation for billions of people and trillions of interactions. At the core of our roadway intelligence solutions is the Rekor One roadway intelligence engine. It is through this engine that we deliver a range of solutions that serve government and commercial customers in the public safety, urban mobility and transportation management areas. Within Rekor One, our proprietary algorithms curate data from multiple sources, including edge-based IoT devices, existing roadway sensors, and a growing network of transportation data partners, unlocking multiple trillions of additional data points. We use this data to generate multi-dimensional insights in real-time, and AI-driven predictive analytics that leverage patterns of what happened in the past so that we can forecast what will happen in the future. These insights enable our customers to make better-informed proactive decisions and achieve improved operational efficiency through strategic resource allocation. Rekor's solutions can support diverse use cases, including real-time incident detection and response, data driven traffic operations and traffic management, proactive traffic calming around events, Federal Highway Administration ("FHWA") mandated vehicle classification, counts, and speed collection and reporting, analytics for bicycle, pedestrians, and other micromobility modes, patterns and hot spots for greenhouse gas emissions, high-definition ("HD") video management and traffic surveillance, law enforcement and intelligence-based policing, citation management, contactless compliance and enforcement, among others. With our advanced technology and domain expertise, we are well-equipped to serve multiple public agencies and private sector segments with comprehensive roadway intelligence. The Road Ahead We find ourselves at a pivotal moment in history, where governments are investing heavily in upgrading and digitizing outdated infrastructure. Recent technological advances, such as edge- and cloud-based computing, artificial intelligence, and the internet of things, have given us an unprecedented opportunity to revolutionize mobility and bridge the divide between rapidly evolving technology and aging infrastructure. These endeavors are not simply aspirations, but active pursuits we are currently engaged in as a technology company that provides state-of-the-art AI-driven roadway intelligence solutions to enhance public safety, urban mobility, and transportation management. By collecting, connecting, and organizing the worlds mobility data, Rekor delivers precise, real-time, and predictive actionable insights for any moving objects on roadways. Our unwavering dedication to delivering mission-critical solutions is propelled by our vision of helping to create intelligent, secure, and sustainable streets for all communities. The ultimate objective is for Rekor to be the foundation of a digital-enabled internet and operating system for roadways that will enable smarter, safer, and more eco-friendly mobility for all. Rekor is making mobility data widely accessible and useful for all, empowering customers to make informed decisions and drive meaningful progress towards a brighter future. 32 Table of Contents Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties We look to identify the various trends, market cycles, uncertainties and other factors that may provide us with opportunities and present challenges that impact our operations and financial condition from time to time. Although there are many that we may not or cannot foresee, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by the following: Growing Smart City Market According to a United Nations report, about two-thirds of the world population will live in urban areas by 2050. The worlds cities are getting larger, with longer commutes and the resulting impact on the environment and the quality of life. This trend requires forward-thinking officials to manage assets and resources more efficiently. We believe that advancements in big data connected devices and artificial intelligence can provide Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) solutions that can be used to reduce congestion, keep travelers safe, improve transportation, protect the environment, respond to climate change, and enhance the quality of life. We believe our data-driven, artificial intelligence-aided solutions provide useful tools that can effectively tackle the challenges cities and communities are facing today and will face over the coming decades. AI for Infrastructure We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of conditions on roadways and other transportation infrastructure can significantly affect the safety and efficiency of travel in the future. As vehicles move towards full automation, there is a need for real-time data and actionable insights around traffic flow, identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way vehicles, stopped vehicles, or/and pedestrians on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can also benefit from rapid, lower cost identification of existing and potential customers in streamlining and accelerating local vehicular flow as well as data about the vehicles on the roadway. Connected Vehicle Data Todays new vehicles are equipped with dozens of sensors, collecting information about internal systems, external hazards, and driving behaviors. This data is a resource that transportation and other agencies are beginning to find valuable uses for. Notably, the data from these vehicles represent a virtual network that is independent of the infrastructure which is maintained and operated by the public agencies. Connected vehicle sensors can provide important information related to hazardous conditions, speed variations, intersection performance, and more. This data can help agencies and municipalities gain more visibility about conditions on their roads, supplementing data from existing infrastructure and allowing transportation information from rural areas that are not served by ITS infrastructure to be integrated into the overall analysis. New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve many users who could not afford the cost, or adapt to the restrictions of, conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions that are testing vehicle recognition systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of vehicle recognition sensors. We also expect the availability of faster, higher-accuracy, lower-cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. Adaptability of the Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy, affordability and ability to capture additional vehicle data will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. However, large users of existing technology, such as toll road operators, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop their own systems or secure advanced systems from others who are also working to develop them. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. 33 Table of Contents Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We expect contactless compliance programs to be expanded as the types of vehicle related violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where it is and is not beneficial. We believe that future legislation will increasingly allow for automated enforcement of regulations such as motor vehicle insurance and registration requirements. Communities are currently searching for better means of achieving compliance with minor vehicle offenses, such as lapsed registrations, and safety issues such as motorists who fail to stop for school buses. For example, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states are considering authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. To the extent that legislative implementation is required, a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process is involved. However, as states expand auto-enforcement, the market for these products and services should broaden in the public safety market. Graphic Processing Unit (GPU) Improvements We expect our business to benefit from more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognition. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in the adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. Edge Processing Demand for actionable roadway information continues to grow in parallel with sensor improvements, such as increasingly sophisticated internal software and optical and other hardware adapted to the use of this software. Over the last several decades, sensors have evolved and unlocked new capabilities with each advancement. Further, cellular networks have been optimized for downloading data rather than uploading data. As a result, while download speeds have improved significantly due to large investments in cellular infrastructure, this has resulted in relatively small improvements to cellular upload speeds. With roadside deployments experiencing explosive growth in count and density, scalability, latency and bandwidth have become aspects of competition in the market. Our systems have been designed to address these issues through the use of more effective edge processing, enabled both by incorporating the increasingly effective new GPUs into our systems and continual improvements in the efficiency of our AI algorithms. Our edge processing systems ingest local HD video streams at the source and convert the raw video data to text data, dramatically reducing the volume of data that needs to be transferred through the network. Edge processing allows us to scale a network dramatically without the bandwidth, cost, latency and dependability limitations that are experienced by other networks where raw video needs to be streamed to the cloud for processing. Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a visible leadership position. As a result, we have made significant investments in our business development marketing and eCommerce activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our products and services within key markets. We anticipate that a sustained presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree to which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. Resurgent COVID 19 - The spread of a novel strain of COVID-19 around the world since the first quarter of 2020 has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets. Despite the roll-out of vaccinations, there continues to be significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies. As such, we are unable to determine the full impact on our operations should the global pandemic resurface in 2023. The pandemic has accelerated the adoption of new technologies by businesses. According to a McKinsey Global Survey of executives, their companies have accelerated the digitization of their customer and supply-chain interactions and their internal operations by three to four years. Funding for digital initiatives has increased, creating opportunities for innovative solution providers such as Rekor. 34 Table of Contents Pressure on Government Budgets COVID-19 has caused significant strain on government budgets. With less money to spend and more need for resources, government agencies need affordable, effective, and scalable solutions for revenue recovery and discovery. With subscription pricing and an intelligent infrastructure platform that accomplishes multiple agency missions, we are uniquely positioned to provide agencies with force-multiplying tools when money and human resources are limited. Agencies can be better positioned to improve public safety, manage resources more effectively, and make an impact on their citizen's quality of life with limited capital expenditure. In addition, states adopting contactless compliance programs may be able to garner significant net cash contributions to their annual budgets while reducing the number of non-compliant vehicles on their roadways. Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) - The IIJA, signed into law on November 15, 2021, provides for significant national investments in the transportation systems in the United States, including over $150 billion in new spending on roadway infrastructure, including intelligent transportation systems. We believe that our comprehensive offering of solutions positions the Company well to emerge as a technology leader in the expanded market for roadway intelligence that will benefit from this legislation. We have identified opportunities to access federal funding streams, and we are working to implement a program that capitalizes on this unprecedented U.S. federal investment in public safety, homeland security, and transportation infrastructure and ensures that our customers are positioned to capture as much of this extraordinary government spending as possible. Beyond the many recurring federal grant programs that could support customer purchases, and the $350 billion in American Rescue Plan Act allocations that public agencies are receiving now, we are particularly excited about the prospect of benefitting from the following new grant sources that are contained in the IIJA: $200 million annually for a Safe Streets and Roads for All program that would make competitive grants for state projects that significantly reduce or eliminate transportation-related fatalities. $150 million for the current administration to establish a grant program to modernize state data collection systems $500 million for the Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Grant Program that would support demonstration projects on smart technologies that improve transportation efficiency and safety. Components of Operating Results Revenues The Company derives its revenues primarily from the sale of its roadway data aggregation, traffic management and licensing offerings. These offerings include a mixture of data collection, implementation, engineering, customer support and maintenance services as well as software and hardware. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to the Companys customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products and services. Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, data subscriptions, sub-consultant services and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when they incur. 35 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing, research and development and depreciation and amortization. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expenses. Operating expenses also include depreciation, amortization, and impairment of assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, and administrative departments. Additional expenses include office leases, professional fees, and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the costs associated with our growth and the costs of accounting, compliance, insurance, and investor relations as a public company. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. However, our general and administrative expenses have decreased as a percentage of our revenue and, to the extent we continue to be successful in generating increased revenue, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We will require significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to continue the rate of growth in our revenues, further penetrate existing markets and expand our customer base into new markets. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses are primarily attributable to our capital investments and consist of fixed asset depreciation, amortization of intangibles considered to have definite lives, and amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists primarily of legal settlements, legal judgements, interest expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, gains or losses on the sale of fixed assets, interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and note receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. 36 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions A comprehensive discussion of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions is included in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 1 of this quarterly report for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars are presented below. This analysis of operation is solely related to continuing operations and does not consider the results of discontinued operations. Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Revenue $ 8,563 $ 3,698 $ 14,748 $ 6,673 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 4,131 2,241 6,999 3,777 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 5,873 8,272 13,078 15,802 Selling and marketing expenses 2,053 2,649 3,943 3,958 Research and development expenses 4,783 4,727 9,740 8,861 Depreciation and amortization 2,003 1,483 3,954 2,625 Total operating expenses 14,712 17,131 30,715 31,246 Loss from operations (10,280 ) (15,674 ) (22,966 ) (28,350 ) Other income (expense): Gain on extinguishment of debt - - 527 - Interest expense, net (908 ) (17 ) (1,668 ) (26 ) Other income 75 301 312 313 Total other income (expense) (833 ) 284 (829 ) 287 Net loss from continuing operations $ (11,113 ) $ (15,390 ) $ (23,795 ) $ (28,063 ) 37 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 and the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 Total Revenue ThreeMonthsEndedJune 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Revenue $ 8,563 $ 3,698 $ 4,865 132 % $ 14,748 $ 6,673 $ 8,075 121 % The increase in revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, was primarily attributable to our acquisition of STS in June 2022. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, revenue attributable to our acquisition of STS was $3,574,000 and $6,327,000, respectively. The other main driver of revenue growth during the year was attributable to sales of the Company's software which increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, as a result of the Company's go to market strategy and its expanded customer base. Cost of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization ThreeMonthsEndedJune 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization $ 4,131 $ 2,241 $ 1,890 84 % $ 6,999 $ 3,777 $ 3,222 85 % For the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization increased compared to the corresponding prior periods primarily due to an increase in personnel and other direct costs such as hardware that were incurred to support our increase in revenue. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 5,873 $ 8,272 $ (2,399 ) -29 % $ 13,078 $ 15,802 $ (2,724 ) -17 % Selling and marketing expenses 2,053 2,649 (596 ) -22 % 3,943 3,958 (15 ) 0 % Research and development expenses 4,783 4,727 56 1 % 9,740 8,861 879 10 % Depreciation and amortization 2,003 1,483 520 35 % 3,954 2,625 1,329 51 % Total operating expenses $ 14,712 $ 17,131 $ (2,419 ) -14 % $ 30,715 $ 31,246 $ (531 ) -2 % General and Administrative Expenses The decrease in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, was primarily due to a $1,505,000 decrease in personnel costs which was primarily related to a decrease in bonus and share-based compensation expense and a $1,513,000 decrease in professional services which was primarily related to fees associated with our acquisition of STS in 2022. The decrease in general and administrative expenses during the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, was primarily due to a $2,590,000 decrease in personnel costs which was primarily related to a decrease in bonus and share-based compensation expense. The additional expenses related to our acquisition of STS in 2022 were more than offset by an overall decrease in personnel costs during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023. Selling and Marketing Expenses The decrease in selling and marketing expenses during the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, was attributable mainly to personnel costs which was primarily related to a decrease in share-based compensation expense. Selling and marketing expenses during the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, remained consistent period over period. Research and Development Expense Research and development expenses during the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, remained consistent period over period. The increase in research and development expenses during the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, was primarily attributable to development expenses as we completed and began production deployment of our count, class and speed application. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, there was an increase in staffing to develop new products which led to a $923,000 increase in personnel costs. 38 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization during the period is attributable primarily to the increased technology-based intangible assets that were acquired as part of our acquisition of STS. Other Income (Expense) ThreeMonthsEndedJune 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Other income (expense): Gain on extinguishment of debt $ - $ - $ - - $ 527 $ - $ 527 100 % Interest expense, net (908 ) (17 ) (891 ) -5241 % (1,668 ) (26 ) (1,642 ) -6315 % Other income 75 301 (226 ) -75 % 312 313 (1 ) 0 % Total other income (expense) $ (833 ) $ 284 $ (1,117 ) -393 % $ (829 ) $ 287 $ (1,116 ) -389 % Interest expense increased period over period due to the issuance of the 2023 Promissory notes. Gain on extinguishment of debt is a result of the settlement agreement in the Firestorm litigation. As part of the settlement, we recorded a reduction to notes payable, the related accrued interest and other assets and liabilities which were part of the Firestorm entities. Non-GAAP Measures EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, (v) losses associated with equity method investments, (vi) merger and acquisition transaction costs and (vii) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net loss from continuing operations $ (11,113 ) $ (15,390 ) $ (23,795 ) $ (28,063 ) Income taxes - - - - Interest 908 17 1,668 26 Depreciation and amortization 2,003 1,483 3,954 2,625 EBITDA $ (8,202 ) $ (13,890 ) $ (18,173 ) $ (25,412 ) Share-based compensation $ 1,044 $ 1,885 $ 2,156 $ 3,785 Gain on extinguishment of debt - - (527 ) - Adjusted EBITDA $ (7,158 ) $ (12,005 ) $ (16,544 ) $ (21,627 ) Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin Adjusted Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure that we define as revenue less cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization. We define Adjusted Gross Margin as our Adjusted Gross Profit divided by our revenue. We expect Adjusted Gross Margin to continue to improve over time to the extent that we can gain efficiencies through the adoption of our technology and successfully cross-sell and upsell our current and future offerings. However, our ability to improve Adjusted Gross Margin over time is not guaranteed and could be impacted by the factors affecting our performance. We believe Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin are useful to investors, as they eliminate the impact of certain non-cash expenses and allow a direct comparison of these measures between periods without the impact of non-cash expenses and certain other nonrecurring operating expenses. 39 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of the Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin for the periods included: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 (Dollars in thousands, except percentages) (Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 8,563 $ 3,698 $ 14,748 $ 6,673 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 4,131 2,241 6,999 3,777 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 4,432 $ 1,457 $ 7,749 $ 2,896 Adjusted Gross Margin 51.8 % 39.4 % 52.5 % 43.4 % Adjusted Gross Margin for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 increased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022. As Company continues to scale and standardize it product offerings it has begun to realize operational efficiencies that have resulted in an improved Adjusted Gross Margin. Additionally, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, the Company had a higher mix of software sales which typically carry a higher Adjusted Gross Margin. Key Performance Indicators We regularly review several indicators, including the following key indicators, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. Recurring Revenue Growth As part of the ongoing development of our selling strategy, we have been focusing on sales that employ contracts with recurring revenue. We expect these contracts to provide a more predictable stream of revenues, compared to one-time sales of hardware and software licenses which are generally more difficult to predict. Our recurring revenue model and revenue retention rates provide significant visibility into our future operating results and cash flow from operations. This visibility enables us to better manage and invest in our business. The following table sets forth our recurring revenue for the periods included: ThreeMonthsEndedJune 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Recurring revenue $ 5,772 $ 2,078 $ 3,694 178 % $ 9,976 $ 3,773 $ 6,203 164 % As we continue to focus on long-term contracts with recurring revenue as part of our business model, we expect recurring revenue growth in future periods to continue to increase as we move to market the integrated suite of products and services powered by our Rekor One engine. Total Contract Value There are certain assumptions that we make when determining the total contract value of an agreement, such as the success rate of renewal periods, cancellations and usage estimates. The following table presents a summary of total contract value (dollars in thousands): ThreeMonthsEndedJune 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Total Contract Value $ 17,643 $ 3,454 $ 14,189 411 % $ 29,726 $ 4,979 $ 24,747 497 % The increase in total contract value is primarily related to large statewide contracts that closed across all three customer markets. 40 Table of Contents Performance Obligations As of June 30, 2023, we had approximately $31,774,000 of contracts that were closed prior to June 30, 2023 but have a contractual period beyond June 30, 2023. This represents an increase of $10,362,000 or 48% compared to $21,412,000 of performance obligations as of December 31, 2022. These contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, in which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately 69% of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following four years. On occasion, our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the contract related to the performance obligation for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. The increase in total performance obligations is primarily related to our acquisition of STS. Lease Obligations As of June 30, 2023, we had material leased building space at the following locations in the U.S. and Israel: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Tel Aviv, Israel We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We expect to improve, replace and increase facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our planned operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth the components of our cash flows for the period included (dollars in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities $ (19,200 ) $ (23,093 ) $ 3,893 17 % Net cash used in investing activities (476 ) (9,353 ) 8,877 95 % Net cash provided by financing activities 20,441 20,486 (45 ) 0 % Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents $ 765 $ (11,960 ) $ 12,725 106 % Net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 had a decrease of $3,893,000, which was primarily attributable to the decrease of $4,268,000 in the loss from continuing operations. The net decrease in net cash used in investing activities of $8,877,000 was primarily due to a decrease in the outflow of funds used for capital expenditures. Additionally, during the six months ended June 30, 2022, the Company had net cash outflows of $6,389,000 related to the acquisition of STS. Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 decreased by $45,000 from the prior six month period ended June 30, 2022. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, as part of our 2023 Promissory Notes and the 2023 Registered Direct Offering, we received net proceeds of $11,100,000 and $9,160,000, respectively. In the prior comparable quarterly period, through our 2022 Sales Agreement, we received net proceeds, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us, of $20,408,000. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, the issuance of debt and the sale of equity. As of June 30, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations of $2,784,000 and a working capital deficit of $1,692,000, as compared to cash and cash equivalents of $2,178,000 and a working capital deficit of $6,010,000 as of December 31, 2022. 41 Table of Contents Liquidity We will assess going concern uncertainty in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements to determine whether there is sufficient cash on hand, capital raises and working capital, to operate for a period of at least one year from the date the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are issued, which is referred to as the look-forward period, as defined in U.S. GAAP. As part of this assessment, based on conditions that are known and reasonably knowable to us, we will consider various scenarios, forecasts, projections and estimates and will make certain key assumptions. These assumptions include, among other factors, its ability to raise additional capital, the expected timing and nature of our programs and projected cash expenditures and its ability to delay or curtail these programs or expenditures to the extent we have the proper authority to do so and consider probable that those implementations can be achieved within the look-forward period. We have generated losses since our inception and have relied on cash on hand and external sources of financing to support cash flow from operations. We attribute losses to non-capital expenditures related to the scaling of existing products, development of new products and service offerings and marketing efforts associated with these products and services. As of and for the six months ended June 30, 2023, we had a working capital deficit from continuing operations of $1,692,000 and a loss from continuing operations of $23,795,000. Our cash increased by $316,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2023 primarily due to external financing which was offset by the loss from continuing operations of $23,795,000. As described in NOTE 13-SUBSEQUENT EVENTS to the financial statements included in Item 1 hereof, the Company received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $10,997,000 as a result of a warrant exercise on July 25, 2023. Based on the Company's current business plan assumptions and the expected cash burn rate, the Company believes that the existing cash is insufficient to fund operations for the next twelve months following the issuance of these unaudited condensed financial statements. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is actively monitoring its operations, the cash on hand and working capital. The Company is currently in the process of reviewing external financing options in order to sustain its operations. During the third quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023, the Company implemented strategic expense reductions in certain areas to better align its operations with near term revenue generating opportunities. If additional financing is not available, the Company has contingency plans to further reduce or defer expenses and cash outlays in the look-forward period. 2023 Promissory Notes with Warrants On January 18, 2023, the Company entered into a securities purchase agreement with certain accredited investors, pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell to the investors in a private placement transaction (i) up to $15,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior secured promissory notes, and (ii) warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 7,500,000 shares of common stock of the Company. In connection with the initial closing on January 18, 2023, the Company issued $12,500,000 in aggregate principal amount of notes and warrants to purchase 6,250,000 shares of Common Stock, resulting in proceeds to the Company of $12,500,000 before reimbursement of expenses. 2023 Registered Public Offering On March 23, 2023, the Company entered into a securities purchase agreement with a single institutional investor that provided for the sale and issuance by the Company in a registered direct offering of an aggregate of: (i) 6,100,000 shares of the Companys common stock, (ii) pre-funded warrants exercisable for up to an aggregate of 772,853 shares of common stock, and (iii) warrants to purchase up to 6,872,853 shares of common stock. The offering price per share of common stock and associated warrant was $1.455 and the offering price per pre-funded warrant and associated warrant was $1.454. Each pre-funded warrant is exercisable for one share of common stock at an exercise price of $0.001 per share and will expire when exercised in full. The warrants to purchase common stock became exercisable immediately upon issuance, will expire five years following the issuance date and have an exercise price of $1.60 per share. The Company received gross proceeds from the Registered Direct Offering of approximately $10,000,000. The Offering closed on March 27, 2023. The Company entered into an engagement letter with H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC to serve as exclusive placement agent, on a reasonable best-efforts basis, in connection with the offering. The Company paid the placement agent an aggregate cash fee equal to 7.5% of the gross proceeds of the offering. The Company also paid the placement agent $75,000 for non-accountable expenses and $16,000 for clearing fees. Additionally, the Company issued designees of the placement agent, as compensation, warrants to purchase up to 481,100 shares of common stock, equal to 7.0% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock and pre-funded warrants placed in the offering. The warrants issued to the placement agent have a term of five (5) years and an exercise price of $1.8188 per share of common stock. As of June 30, 2023, we did not have any material commitments for capital expenditures. 42 Table of Contents