ITEM 2.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve substantial risks and uncertainties including particularly statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, prospective products and services, timing and likelihood of success, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and future results of current and anticipated products and services. These statements involve uncertainties, such as known and unknown risks, and are dependent on other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements we express or imply. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions described under the sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Specific factors that might cause actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to: significant risks, uncertainties and other considerations discussed in this report; operating risks, including supply chain, equipment or system failures, cyber and other malicious attacks, wars and local conflicts and other events that could affect our operations and the amounts and timing of revenues and expenses; reputational risks affecting customer confidence or willingness to do business with us; financial market conditions, including the continuation of significant national and global uncertainties that may affect these conditions, and the results of financing efforts; our ability to successfully identify, integrate and complete acquisitions and dispositions, including the integration of the ATD Acquisition; our continued ability to successfully access the public markets for debt or equity capital; political, legal, regulatory, governmental, administrative and economic conditions and developments in the United States (U.S.) and other countries in which we operate and, in particular, the impact of recent and future federal, state and local regulatory proceedings and changes, including legislative and regulatory initiatives associated with our products; current and future litigation; competition from other companies with an established position in the markets we have recently entered or are seeking to enter or from other companies who are seeking to enter markets we already serve; our failure to successfully develop products using our technology that are accepted by the markets we serve or intend to serve or the development of new technologies that change the nature of our business or provide our customers with products or services superior to or less expensive than ours; the inability of our strategic plans and goals to expand our geographic markets, customer base and product and service offerings; 26 Table of Contents risks associated with pandemics and other global health emergencies, and their impact U.S. and international markets and economies; and risks associated with cyberattacks on international, national, local and Company information infrastructure by rogue businesses or criminal elements or by agents of governments engaged in asymmetric disruptions for competitive, economic, or military reasons. Investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein. Other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change in the future. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the 2023 Annual Report) and any updates contained herein as well as those set forth in our reports and other filings made with the SEC. General Overview Rekor was founded in 2017 and first entered the roadway intelligence business in 2019, with the acquisition of a company pioneering the development of computer vision software for roadway data collection and analysis. The software analyzes images and provides contemporaneous data about vehicles moving on the roadway, such as direction, speed, color, make, model license plate and other characteristics. The software uses a form of generative artificial intelligence, or AI, that employs neural networks to filter and identify patterns within the images and is continuously updated through machine learning that expands its capabilities and allows it to adapt to changes in the vehicle pool and other elements of the roadway environment. Rekor has continued the development of this software and has also developed a proprietary supporting operating system, which we identify as Rekor OneTM. This system addresses privacy concerns and facilitates the analysis and distribution of relevant data to multiple users through edge processing and other techniques. Using Rekor OneTM, we can collect, aggregate and analyze roadway data in combination with data from other sources. This analysis provides insights that are distributed to a variety of customers through our own proprietary platforms, as well as through those provided by others. While our primary customers are located in North America, products and services we provide are currently used in over 90 countries around the world. Our primary customers include national, state and municipal public agencies, as well as large commercial users in North America who employ our products and services for traffic studies, transportation management, public safety, perimeter security and tolling, as well as parking system operations. Our ultimate vision is to become the premier provider of roadway intelligence and data-driven mobility insights in the world. Our operations are conducted primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiaries Rekor Recognition Systems, Inc., Waycare Technologies, Ltd. and Waycare Technology Inc., or Waycare, Southern Traffic Services, Inc., or STS, and All Traffic Data, LLC, or ATD. We integrated Waycare into our operations as part of a collaborative process of developing Rekor CommandTM, a platform used by traffic management centers. In addition to award winning incident management tools, Waycare brought us a valuable network of established third party data sources such as weather forecasts, transit schedules, event information and other data that provide insights through predictive analytics to our traffic management customers. The acquisition of STS in 2022 allowed us to join forces with one of the leading data suppliers to state level Departments of Transportation, or DOTs, in the United States. Throughout its history, STS has pioneered an increasingly popular pay for data model of conducting traffic studies for DOTs. Using our Rekor DiscoverTM platform, STS has been able to dramatically improve the quality, scope, efficiency and reliability of the data it supplies to DOTs. As more fully described under Traffic Data Collection, STS currently has contracts with several states, with a strong footprint in the Southeastern United States. We are currently engaged in discussions, including conducting proof of concept demonstrations, with additional states and municipalities to provide similar services. On January 2, 2024, we acquired ATD, which collaborates closely with numerous traffic engineering firms, metropolitan planning organizations, municipalities, and state DOTs, in locations where Rekor previously lacked a sales presence. ATD is actively involved in data collection across a wide-ranging geographic area, encompassing states like California, Colorado, Arizona, Nebraska, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. This addition expands the coverage of our urban mobility operations across the countrys western region and further strengthens our position in the Southeast, providing ready access to experienced urban mobility personnel and operational facilities to support the expansion of our Internet of Things, or IoT, network. A New Operating System for Roadways We believe there is a significant need for the innovative products and services we have developed. The current condition of national transportation infrastructure systems is a matter of concern, particularly in the United States. According to a 2021 infrastructure report from the American Society of Civil Engineers, or ASCE, U.S. infrastructure has been graded a C minus, indicating that there is significant and urgent need for improvement. Over 43% of the 4.3 million miles of U.S. roadways were rated in poor condition, which impacts the safety of drivers and passengers. The issue of congestion is also a serious concern, and was estimated to cost U.S. citizens $120 billion per year in economic and productivity losses. Transportation-related greenhouse gas emissions motorists emissions, particularly when trapped in traffic account for a significant proportion of the countrys total emissions and are a leading contributor to declining sustainability, which has far-reaching environmental impacts. Addressing the road infrastructure issue is imperative for both economic and ecological reasons. Further, more than 43,000 people lose their lives each year while using the nations transportation network of streets, roads and highways, which represents a failure in public safety and policy. On February 2, 2023, the U.S. Department of Transportation declared a national crisis and state of emergency for roadway safety and launched an urgent roadway safety call-to-action demanding stakeholders to commit to specific actions to reverse the spike in serious injuries and deaths on our roadways. 27 Table of Contents To address urgent transportation issues and ensure the competitiveness of the U.S. economy, an unprecedented amount of funding has been made available from the federal government through the 2021 Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, or IIJA, 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, and the 2022 CHIPS and Science Act to create digitally-enabled transportation infrastructure that will provide public goods and new economic value. This represents a once-in-a-generation level of investment and bipartisan support for creating and scaling transportation digital infrastructure for the 21st century. Rather than completely rebuilding existing infrastructure, we expect the focus to be on using the power of funding and policymaking to leverage off previous investments by promoting new technology layers and facilitating access to digital infrastructure systems throughout the country. We expect the deployment of sophisticated roadway intelligence systems to be a significant part of both planning for and implementing the infrastructure improvements necessary to meet these challenges. Our commitment to delivering mission-critical solutions for roadway intelligence is driven by our vision of creating smarter, safer and more sustainable streets for all communities. To achieve this vision, we strive to collect, connect and organize the worlds mobility data, harnessing its full potential to provide the most essential, real-time and predictive actionable mobility insights. We are working to make mobility data more accessible and useful for all responsible users, empowering our customers to make informed decisions and drive meaningful progress towards a better future. The ultimate objective is to adopt an augmented approach to existing physical infrastructure that blends the strengths of physical, digital and operational infrastructure with mobility data, including mobile phones, connected vehicles and roadway sensors. The ultimate goal is to enable and coordinate private and public collaboration through a digital-enabled mobility internet and operating system for the roadways that will advance smarter, safer and greener roadways for all. Roadway Intelligence Since the inception of our efforts, we have been dedicated to becoming a leader in roadway intelligence by collecting, connecting and organizing global mobility data. Today, our comprehensive portfolio offers multiple cutting-edge, AI-driven, edge-based IoT devices for roadside data collection, and an array of curated and integrated data sets from a network of transportation ecosystem data providers, tailored platforms, applications and data streams that provide accurate, real-time and predictive actionable insights about moving objects on roadways. We specialize in collecting and aggregating mobility-related data from multiple sources into our Rekor One roadway intelligence engine, transforming this data into knowledge and actionable insights, and securely distributing those insights to multiple users across our software platforms and applications. Our proprietary technologies use recent advances in artificial intelligence, machine learning, data analysis, edge processing and communications. They are designed to be integrated into existing roadway and roadway sensor infrastructure to deliver real-time and predictive analytics that address critical challenges in transportation management, public safety, urban mobility and other key commercial markets. By applying a multi-layer architectural approach and protocols inspired by the Open System Interconnection, or OSI, model, which was instrumental in creating computer operating systems in the 1970s and the internet in the 1980s, we are collaborating with members of the Rekor Partner Network to integrate various transportation infrastructure systems into a cohesive network of roadway intelligence assets and insights. This involves consolidating fragmented and disparate systems, as well as adding new layers of connectivity, to create a unified infrastructure. To achieve this goal, we are working closely with a wide range of stakeholders, including local, state and federal government agencies, law enforcement, transit providers, infrastructure owners/operators, automotive OEMs and technology and communications providers. We are working to build a future for our customers where the mobility internet is interactive, generating and distributing real-time transportation intelligence to improve traffic management, public safety, maintenance, emergency services and planning agencies, as well as by connected and autonomous vehicles. Our primary objective has been and remains to develop a unique and differentiated suite of products and services that will play a central role in facilitating this process, while aligning with key partners in the transportation ecosystem to provide the most comprehensive view of roadways. We will continue to optimize our investments to uniquely combine physical and digital infrastructure that is foundational to a new operating system for the roadways. As agencies plan for and build the transportation network of the future, we expect to play a critical and disproportionately valuable role in meeting the essential need for real-time and predictive roadway intelligence. Roadway Intelligence Powered by Rekor Our cutting-edge technology and domain expertise gives us a position of strength in the emerging field of roadway intelligence. At the core of our roadway intelligence solutions is the Rekor One roadway intelligence engine. It is through this engine, fueled by rich data and purpose-built to be a single source of truth to address diverse use cases, that we deliver a range of solutions that cater to public safety, urban mobility, transportation management and commercial markets. This engine facilitates the efficient collection, analysis and distribution of vast amounts of data, unlocking real-time and predictive operational insights. Within Rekor One, our proprietary algorithms curate data from multiple sources, including edge-based IoT devices, existing roadway sensors and a growing network of transportation data partners, unlocking multiple additional data points. We use this data to generate multi-dimensional insights in real-time, and AI-driven predictive analytics that leverage patterns of what happened in the past so that we can forecast what will happen in the future. These insights enable our customers to make better-informed proactive decisions and achieve improved operational efficiency through strategic resource allocation. Our solutions can support diverse use cases, including real-time incident detection and response, data driven traffic operations and traffic management, proactive traffic calming around events, Federal Highway Administration, or FHWA, mandated vehicle classification, counts, and speed collection and reporting, analytics for bicycle, pedestrians and other micro-mobility modes, patterns and hot spots for greenhouse gas emissions, high-definition video management and traffic surveillance, law enforcement and intelligence-based policing, citation management, contactless compliance and enforcement. With our advanced technology and domain expertise, we are well-equipped to serve multiple public agencies and private sector segments with comprehensive roadway intelligence. 28 Table of Contents Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties We look to identify the various trends, market cycles, uncertainties and other factors that may provide us with opportunities and present challenges that impact our operations and financial condition from time to time. Although there are many that we may not or cannot foresee, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by the following: Growing Smart City Market According to a United Nations report, about two-thirds of the world population will live in urban areas by 2050. The worlds cities are getting larger, with longer commutes and the resulting impact on the environment and the quality of life. This trend requires forward-thinking officials to manage assets and resources more efficiently. We believe that advancements in big data connected devices and artificial intelligence can provide Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) solutions that can be used to reduce congestion, keep travelers safe, improve transportation, protect the environment, respond to climate change, and enhance the quality of life. We believe our data-driven, artificial intelligence-aided solutions provide useful tools that can effectively tackle the challenges cities and communities are facing today and will face over the coming decades. AI for Infrastructure We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of conditions on roadways and other transportation infrastructure can significantly affect the safety and efficiency of travel in the future. As vehicles increasingly move towards automation, there is a need for real-time data and actionable insights around traffic flow, identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way vehicles, stopped vehicles, or/and pedestrians on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can also benefit from rapid, lower cost identification of existing and potential customers in streamlining and accelerating local vehicular flow as well as data about the vehicles on the roadway. Connected Vehicle Data Todays new vehicles are equipped with dozens of sensors, collecting information about internal systems, external hazards, and driving behaviors. This data is a resource that transportation and other agencies are beginning to find valuable uses for. Notably, the data from these vehicles represent a virtual network that is independent of the infrastructure which is maintained and operated by the public agencies. Connected vehicle sensors can provide important information related to hazardous conditions, speed variations, intersection performance, and more. This data can help agencies and municipalities gain more visibility about conditions on their roads, supplementing data from existing infrastructure and allowing transportation information from rural areas that are not served by ITS infrastructure to be integrated into the overall analysis. New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve many users who could not afford the cost, or adapt to the restrictions of, conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions that are testing vehicle recognition systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of vehicle recognition sensors. We also expect the availability of faster, higher-accuracy, lower-cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. Adaptability of the Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy, affordability and ability to capture additional vehicle data will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. Based on published benchmarks, our software currently outperforms competitors. However, large users of existing technology, such as toll road operators, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop their own systems or secure advanced systems from others who are also working to develop them. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We expect contactless compliance programs to be expanded as the types of vehicle related violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where it is and is not beneficial. We believe that future legislation will increasingly allow for automated enforcement of regulations such as motor vehicle insurance and registration requirements. Communities are currently searching for better means of achieving compliance with minor vehicle offenses, such as lapsed registrations, and safety issues such as motorists who fail to stop for school buses. For example, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states have considered authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. To the extent that legislative implementation is required, a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process is involved. However, as states expand auto-enforcement, the market for these products and services should broaden in the public safety market. Graphic Processing Unit (GPU) Improvements We expect our business to benefit from more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognition. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in the adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. 29 Table of Contents Edge Processing Demand for actionable roadway information continues to grow in parallel with sensor improvements, such as increasingly sophisticated internal software and optical and other hardware adapted to the use of this software. Over the last several decades, sensors have evolved and unlocked new capabilities with each advancement. Further, cellular networks have been optimized for downloading data rather than uploading data. As a result, while download speeds have improved significantly due to large investments in cellular infrastructure, this has resulted in relatively small improvements to cellular upload speeds. With roadside deployments experiencing explosive growth in count and density, scalability, latency and bandwidth have become aspects of competition in the market. Our systems have been designed to address these issues through the use of more effective edge processing, enabled both by incorporating the increasingly effective new GPUs into our systems and continual improvements in the efficiency of our AI algorithms. Our edge processing systems ingest local HD video streams at the source and convert the raw video data to text data, dramatically reducing the volume of data that needs to be transferred through the network. Edge processing allows us to scale a network dramatically without the bandwidth, cost, latency and dependability limitations that are experienced by other networks where raw video needs to be streamed to the cloud for processing. Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a visible leadership position. As a result, we have made significant investments in our business development, marketing and eCommerce activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our products and services within key markets. We anticipate that a sustained presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree to which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) - The IIJA, signed into law on November 15, 2021, provides for significant national investments in the transportation systems in the United States, including over $150 billion in new spending on roadway infrastructure, including intelligent transportation systems. We believe that our comprehensive offering of solutions positions the Company well to emerge as a technology leader in the expanded market for roadway intelligence that will benefit from this legislation. We have identified opportunities to access federal funding streams, and we are working to implement a program that capitalizes on this unprecedented U.S. federal investment in public safety, homeland security, and transportation infrastructure and ensures that our customers are positioned to capture as much of this extraordinary government spending as possible. Beyond the many recurring federal grant programs that could support customer purchases, and the $350 billion in American Rescue Plan Act allocations that public agencies are receiving now, we are particularly excited about the prospect of benefitting from the following new grant sources that are contained in the IIJA: $200 million annually for a Safe Streets and Roads for All program that would make competitive grants for state projects that significantly reduce or eliminate transportation-related fatalities. $150 million for the current administration to establish a grant program to modernize state data collection systems $500 million for the Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Grant Program that would support demonstration projects on smart technologies that improve transportation efficiency and safety. Recent Acquisitions - Over the past two years, Rekor has acquired two subsidiaries as part of its plans to advance its appeal to national and local transportation agencies. In the first of these acquisitions, we acquired a leader in the development of predictive analytics for traffic management using a combination of internally generated and third party data sources. This acquisition was designed to assure transportation agencies that we were developing the most advanced data analysis systems to support their missions in safety and efficiency. In the second acquisition, we acquired one of the leading existing providers of traffic data services in the United States. Uniquely, this Company had innovated a change in the service model from providing, servicing and maintaining agency resources to a data services model where overlapping entities could benefit from our modular approach to data collection and dissemination. Each of these acquisitions has led to increased visibility for the Company among national and state level DOTs in the United States. Challenges to Executing on the Corporate Strategy As an acquirer and integrator of established technology companies in the ITS industry, there is an inherent risk associated with the successful implementation and execution of the strategy. If Rekor is unable to successfully implement and execute its plans, there could be a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, and financial condition. Inability to Achieve Profitability - Rekor continues to grow its business, its operating expenses and capital expenditures have increased, and it has not yet achieved the level of sustaining profitability. As a result, if the Company is unable to generate additional revenue or achieve planned efficiencies in operations, or if its revenue declines significantly, Rekor may not be able to achieve profitability in the future, which would materially and adversely affect the Companys business. Inability to Retain Qualified Personnel Rekors success depends on the continued efforts and abilities of the senior management team and key engineering and marketing specialists. Although Rekor has employment agreements with these employees, they may not choose to remain employed by Rekor. Should one or more key personnel leave the Company or join a competitor, the Companys business, operating results, and financial condition can be adversely affected. Inability to Compete Effectively - Competition and technological advancements by others may erode the Companys business and result in inability to capture new business and revenue. Each business line faces significant competitive pressures within the markets in which they operate. While Rekor continues to work to develop and strengthen its competitive advantages, many factors such as market and technology changes may erode or prevent this. If the Company is unable to successfully maintain its competitive advantage, the Companys business, operating results, and financial condition can be adversely affected. Cyber Security Risks - Rekor relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. A significant disruption or failure in the information technology systems could result in services interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory compliance failures, an inability to protect information and assets against intruders, and other operational difficulties. This could result in the loss of assets and critical information and expose the Company to remediation costs and reputational damage. Although Rekor takes reasonable steps intended to mitigate these risks, a significant disruption or cyber intrusion could lead to misappropriation of assets or data corruption and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Intellectual Property Claims - Third parties that have been issued patents or have filed for patent applications similar to those used by the Companys operating subsidiaries may result in intellectual property claims against the Company. Rekor cannot determine with certainty whether existing third-party patents or the issuance of any future third party patents would require any of its operating subsidiaries to alter their respective technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. Should the Company be unable to defend against such claims, the Companys business, operating results, and financial condition can be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Components of Operating Results Revenues The Company derives its revenues primarily from the sale of its roadway data aggregation, traffic management and licensing offerings. These offerings include a mixture of data collection, implementation, engineering, customer support and maintenance services as well as software and hardware. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to the Companys customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products and services. Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, data subscriptions, sub-consultant services and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when they incur. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing, research and development and depreciation and amortization. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, and administrative departments. Additional expenses include office leases, professional fees, and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the costs associated with our growth and the costs of accounting, compliance, legal, insurance, and investor relations as a public company. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. However, our general and administrative expenses have decreased as a percentage of our revenue and, to the extent we continue to be successful in generating increased revenue, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We will require significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to continue the rate of growth in our revenues, further penetrate existing markets and expand our customer base into new markets. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses are primarily attributable to our capital investments and consist of fixed asset depreciation, amortization of intangibles considered to have definite lives, and amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists primarily of legal settlements, legal judgements, interest income and expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, gains or losses on the sale of fixed assets, gain or losses on the change in fair value of our liabilities, and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents and note receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. 31 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions Business Combination The Company has made a preliminary estimate of the allocation of the preliminary purchase price of ATD to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value. The Company is still evaluating the fair value of intangible assets, and income taxes, in addition to ensuring all other assets and liabilities have been identified and recorded. The Company has estimated the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on information currently available and will continue to adjust those estimates as additional information pertaining to events or circumstances become available. The Company will reflect measurement period adjustments, in the period in which the adjustments occur, and the Company will finalize its accounting for the acquisition within one year from the Closing Date. A change in the fair value of the net assets may change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill. If the final fair value estimates and tax adjustments related to the net assets acquired decrease from their preliminary estimates, the amount of goodwill will increase. In addition, the final fair value estimates related to the net assets acquired could impact the amount of amortization expense recorded associated with amounts allocated to tangible and intangible assets. The fair value measurements were primarily based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, such as discounted cash flow ("DCF") analyses, and thus represent Level 3 fair value measurements. A comprehensive discussion of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions is included in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 1 of this quarterly report for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars are presented below. Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Revenue $ 12,427 $ 8,563 $ 22,205 $ 14,748 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 5,776 4,131 11,061 6,999 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 7,370 5,873 15,032 13,078 Selling and marketing expenses 2,021 2,053 4,435 3,943 Research and development expenses 4,991 4,783 9,992 9,740 Depreciation and amortization 2,344 2,003 4,676 3,954 Total operating expenses 16,726 14,712 34,135 30,715 Loss from operations (10,075 ) (10,280 ) (22,991 ) (22,966 ) Other income (expense): (Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt - - (4,693 ) 527 Interest expense, net (544 ) (908 ) (1,598 ) (1,668 ) Gain on remeasurement of ATD Holdback Shares 745 - 745 - Other income 79 75 128 312 Total other income (expense) 280 (833 ) (5,418 ) (829 ) Net loss $ (9,795 ) $ (11,113 ) $ (28,409 ) $ (23,795 ) 32 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 and the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 Total Revenue Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % 2024 2023 $ % Revenue $ 12,427 $ 8,563 $ 3,864 45 % $ 22,205 $ 14,748 $ 7,457 51 % The increase in revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, was primarily attributable to our acquisition of ATD in January 2024. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, revenue attributable to ATD was $3,341,000 and $5,705,000, respectively. The remainder of the increase in revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2024 was related to portable and short-term traffic services. Cost of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % 2024 2023 $ % Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization $ 5,776 $ 4,131 $ 1,645 40 % $ 11,061 $ 6,999 $ 4,062 58 % For the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization increased compared to the corresponding prior periods primarily due to an increase in personnel and other direct costs such as hardware that were incurred to support our increase in revenue. Additionally, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, $970,000 and $1,799,000 of the increase was related to our acquisition of ATD. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % 2024 2023 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 7,370 $ 5,873 $ 1,497 25 % $ 15,032 $ 13,078 $ 1,954 15 % Selling and marketing expenses 2,021 2,053 (32 ) -2 % 4,435 3,943 492 12 % Research and development expenses 4,991 4,783 208 4 % 9,992 9,740 252 3 % Depreciation and amortization 2,344 2,003 341 17 % 4,676 3,954 722 18 % Total operating expenses $ 16,726 $ 14,712 $ 2,014 14 % $ 34,135 $ 30,715 $ 3,420 11 % General and Administrative Expenses For the six months ended June 30, 2024, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to: a $1,524,000 increase in general and administrative expenses as a result of the acquisition of ATD. a $206,000 increase in expenses related to our directors, mainly as a result the addition of two new members to our Board of Directors. These expenses were offset by a $85,000 decrease in payroll and payroll related expenses related to our operations excluding ATD. a $350,000 decrease in professional services related to our operations excluding ATD. For the three months ended June 30, 2024, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to: a $708,000 increase in general and administrative expenses as a result of the acquisition of ATD. a $252,000 increase in payroll and payroll related expenses related to our operations excluding ATD. a $106,000 increase in expenses related to our directors, mainly as a result the addition of two new members to our Board of Directors. a $95,000 increase in professional services related to our operations excluding ATD. Selling and Marketing Expenses For the six months ended June 30, 2024, the increase in selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to a $343,000 increase in advertising expense, of which approximately $164,000 was related to our acquisition of ATD. For the three months ended June 30, 2024, selling and marketing expenses remained fairly consistent period over period due to an increase in expenses related to ATD which were offset by a decrease to payroll and payroll related costs. Research and Development Expense Research and development expenses during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, remained consistent period over period. 33 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization during the period is attributable primarily to the intangible assets that were acquired as part of our acquisition of ATD. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % 2024 2023 $ % Other income (expense): (Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt $ - $ - $ - - $ (4,693 ) $ 527 $ (5,220 ) -991 % Interest expense, net (544 ) (908 ) 364 40 % (1,598 ) (1,668 ) 70 4 % Gain on remeasurement of ATD Holdback Shares 745 - 745 100 % 745 - 745 100 % Other income 79 75 4 5 % 128 312 (184 ) -59 % Total other income (expense) $ 280 $ (833 ) $ 1,113 134 % $ (5,418 ) $ (829 ) $ (4,589 ) -554 % For the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, interest expense decreased period over period due to the early redemption of the 2023 Promissory Notes. (Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt is a result of early redemption of the 2023 Promissory Notes. As part of the redemption, we recorded a Redemption Payment of $1,875,000 which we settled through the issuance of common stock and accelerated debt issuance costs of $2,818,000. Other income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, increased as a result of the remeasurement of the ATD Holdback Shares. Non-GAAP Measures EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, (v) losses associated with equity method investments, (vi) merger and acquisition transaction costs and (vii) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2024 2023 Net loss $ (9,795 ) $ (11,113 ) $ (28,409 ) $ (23,795 ) Interest 544 908 1,598 1,668 Depreciation and amortization 2,344 2,003 4,676 3,954 EBITDA $ (6,907 ) $ (8,202 ) $ (22,135 ) $ (18,173 ) Share-based compensation $ 1,115 $ 1,044 $ 2,282 $ 2,156 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt - - 4,693 (527 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (5,792 ) $ (7,158 ) $ (15,160 ) $ (16,544 ) Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin Adjusted Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure that we define as revenue less cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization. We define Adjusted Gross Margin as our Adjusted Gross Profit divided by our revenue. We expect Adjusted Gross Margin to continue to improve over time to the extent that we can gain efficiencies through the adoption of our technology and successfully cross-sell and upsell our current and future offerings. However, our ability to improve Adjusted Gross Margin over time is not guaranteed and could be impacted by the factors affecting our performance. We believe Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin are useful to investors, as they eliminate the impact of certain non-cash expenses and allow a direct comparison of these measures between periods without the impact of non-cash expenses and certain other nonrecurring operating expenses. 34 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of the Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin for the periods included: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2024 2023 (Dollars in thousands, except percentages) (Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 12,427 $ 8,563 $ 22,205 $ 14,748 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 5,776 4,131 11,061 6,999 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 6,651 $ 4,432 $ 11,144 $ 7,749 Adjusted Gross Margin 53.5 % 51.8 % 50.2 % 52.5 % Adjusted Gross Margin for the three months ended June 30, 2024 increased compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023, while the Adjusted Gross Margin for the six months ended June 30, 2024 decreased compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023. The fluctuation in Adjusted Gross Margin is typically correlated to the mix of software sales versus service type work. Typically our software sales carry a higher Adjusted Gross Margin. Key Performance Indicators We regularly review several indicators, including the following key indicators, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. Recurring Revenue Growth As part of the ongoing development of our selling strategy, we have been focusing on sales that employ contracts with recurring revenue. We expect these contracts to provide a more predictable stream of revenues, compared to one-time sales of hardware and software licenses which are generally more difficult to predict. Our recurring revenue model and revenue retention rates provide significant visibility into our future operating results and cash flow from operations. This visibility enables us to better manage and invest in our business. The following table sets forth our recurring revenue for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % 2024 2023 $ % Recurring revenue $ 6,284 $ 5,772 $ 512 9 % $ 11,246 $ 9,976 $ 1,270 13 % We expect to continue to focus on long-term contracts with recurring revenue as part of our business model, which is intended to cause recurring revenue growth in future periods to continue to increase. However, procurement requirements for some of our largest customers may result in periods when there is an increase one-time sales as compared to recurring revenues, which may cause the proportion of recurring revenues generated in those periods to fluctuate. In addition, there may be an increase in one time sales as a result of initial installations related to the development of recurring revenue. Performance Obligations As of June 30, 2024, we had approximately $21,023,000 of contracts that were closed prior to June 30, 2024 but have a contractual period beyond June 30, 2024. This represents a decrease of $5,367,000 or 20% compared to $26,390,000 of performance obligations as of December 31, 2023. These contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, in which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately $15,578,000 of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following four years. On occasion, our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the contract related to the performance obligation for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. 35 Table of Contents Lease Obligations As of June 30, 2024, we had material leased building space at the following locations in the U.S. and Israel: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Tel Aviv, Israel We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We expect to improve, replace and increase facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our planned operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth the components of our cash flows for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities $ (17,926 ) $ (19,200 ) $ 1,274 7 % Net cash used in investing activities (9,707 ) (476 ) (9,231 ) -1939 % Net cash provided by financing activities 15,337 20,441 (5,104 ) -25 % Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (12,296 ) $ 765 $ (13,061 ) -1707 % Net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2024 had a decrease of $1,274,000, which was primarily attributable to the timeliness of collections related to our accounts receivable balance. The increase in net cash used in investing activities of $9,231,000 was primarily due to the net cash outflow of $9,222,000 related to the acquisition of ATD. Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2024 decreased by $5,104,000 from the prior six month period ended June 30, 2023. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, as part of our 2024 Public Offering, we received net proceeds of $26,362,000, these proceeds were partially offset by the repayment of our 2023 Promissory Notes. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, as part of the 2023 Promissory Notes and the 2023 Registered Direct Offering, we received net proceeds of $11,100,000 and $9,159,000, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, the issuance of debt and the sale of equity. As of June 30, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash of $3,417,000 and a working capital deficit of $3,375,000, as compared to cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash of $15,713,000 and working capital of $8,100,000 as of December 31, 2023. 36 Table of Contents Liquidity Management has assessed going concern uncertainty to determine whether there is sufficient cash on hand, together with expected capital raises and working capital, to assure operations for a period of at least one year from the date these consolidated financial statements are issued, which is referred to as the look-forward period, as defined in U.S. GAAP. As part of this assessment, based on conditions that are known and reasonably knowable to management, management has considered various scenarios, forecasts, projections, and estimates and will make certain key assumptions. These assumptions include, among other factors, its ability to raise additional capital, the expected timing and nature of the Companys programs and projected cash expenditures and its ability to delay or curtail these programs or expenditures to the extent management has the proper authority to do so and considers it probable that those implementations can be achieved within the look-forward period. We have generated losses since our inception and have relied on cash on hand and external sources of financing to support cash flow from operations. We attribute losses to non-capital expenditures related to the scaling of existing products, development of new products and service offerings and marketing efforts associated with these products and services. As of and for the six months ended June 30, 2024, we had working capital deficit of $3,375,000 and a net loss of $28,409,000. Our cash decreased by $12,296,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2024 primarily due to the cash paid to acquire ATD and redeem the 2023 Promissory Notes and the net loss of $28,409,000, partially offset by external financing activity. Based on the Company's current business plan assumptions and the expected cash burn rate, the Company believes that the existing cash is insufficient to fund its current level of operations for the next twelve months following the issuance of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Company's ability to generate positive operating results and execute its business strategy will depend on (i) its ability to continue the growth of its customer base, (ii) its ability to continue to improve its quarterly financial metrics such as net loss and cash used from operating activities (iii) the continued performance of its contractors, subcontractors and vendors, (iv) its ability to maintain and build good relationships with investors, lenders and other financial intermediaries, (v) its ability to maintain timely collections from existing customers, and (vi) the ability to scale its business processes. To the extent that events outside of the Company's control have a significant negative impact on economic and/or market conditions, they could affect payments from customers, services and supplies from vendors, its ability to continue to secure and implement new business, raise capital, and otherwise, depending on the severity of such impact, materially adversely affect its operating results. 2024 Public Offering On February 9, 2024, the Company issued and sold 10,000,000 shares of its common stock, at an offering price of $2.50 per share of common stock (the 2024 Public Offering Price) in a registered public offering by the Company (the 2024 Public Offering), pursuant to an underwriting agreement with William Blair & Company, L.L.C., as representative of the several underwriters named therein (collectively, the Underwriters). On February 9, 2024, the Underwriters exercised in-full their option to purchase up to 1,500,000 additional shares of common stock at the 2024 Public Offering Price (the Underwriters Option). The purchase closed on February 13, 2024. The net proceeds to the Company for the exercise of the Underwriters Option, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, was $2,388,000, or approximately $26,362,000 in aggregate for the 2024 Public Offering including the exercise of the Underwriters Option. As of June 30, 2024, we did not have any material commitments for capital expenditures. 37 Table of Contents