ITEM 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Human Capital Management We look for our employees to represent the best and brightest in our industry and the talent we select to be a part of our team defines our culture and success. Our global workforce is highly educated, technical and specialized, with a substantial majority of employees working in technical roles. As of March 18, 2025, we had 323 employees, of which 319 were full-time and four considered part-time. Although the competition for top talent in our area is significant, to date, we have been fortunate to have engaged highly qualified employees as needed. We are working to ensure that our growth efforts are not constrained by a lack of qualified personnel. Seasonality We derive revenues substantially from the sale of software, hardware and related services and do not currently anticipate a significant seasonality impact on our revenues. There is a portion of our revenue that requires our technicians and field support teams to work outside. Their ability to work and provide services to our end customers can be impacted by inclement weather in the winter months and storm seasons. Should our penetration of tolling and other markets involving per recognition fees expand, we would also expect to become more subject to seasonal traffic patterns. Insurance and Risk Management We maintain insurance covering professional liability and claims involving bodily injury, property and economic loss. We consider our present limits of coverage, deductibles, and reserves to be adequate. Whenever possible, we endeavor to eliminate or reduce the risk of loss on a project through quality assurance and control, risk management, workplace safety, and other similar methods. Risk management is an integral part of our project management approach for fixed-price contracts and our project execution process. We also evaluate risk through internal risk analyses in which our management reviews higher-risk projects, contracts, or other business decisions that require corporate legal and risk management approval. Regulation We are regulated in some of the fields in which we operate. When working with governmental agencies and entities, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of contracts. These laws and regulations contain terms that, among other things, may require certification and disclosure of all costs or pricing data in connection with various contract negotiations. We are subject to the laws and regulations that restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes. To help ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, our employees are sometimes required to complete tailored ethics and other compliance training relevant to their position and our operations. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of ourcommon stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Business We are currently not profitable, and we may be unable to become profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we had a net loss of $61,410,000. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant expenses related to acquisitions and the development of new products and services. Although we have deliberately incurred losses in the past as we worked to develop, test and popularize our products and services, a significant portion of our expenses are fixed in advance and we cannot assure that we will be profitable in the future or that our financial performance will sustain a sufficient level to completely support operations. Our ability to become profitable in future periods could be impacted by factors that are not in our control, including government activity and regulation, economic instability and other items. e. ,. Our success as a technology-based company focused on roadway intelligence will require us to generate sufficient new revenues from the roadway intelligence market to support our business plan while continuing to operate as a public company. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses and net losses in the future, which would make it difficult to fund operations and achieve our business plan and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market for certain of our solutions is new and unproven, may decline or experience limited growth and is dependent in part on our ability to attract new customers to adopt our platform and use our services. The market for an ecosystem that connects government agencies, service providers and, ultimately, drivers is relatively new and some aspects of it are unproven. As a result, it is subject to several risks and uncertainties. We believe that our future success will significantly depend in large part on the growth, if any, of this market. The use of advanced vehicle recognition systems and marketplace data to obtain data on vehicles, drivers and the environment is still relatively new and potential customers may not recognize the need for, or benefits of, our platform and solutions. They also may have difficulty understanding or have misconceptions about the technologies we use. This could cause them to move cautiously in deploying our products and services or choose other vendors or providers who might appear to offer similar products. Our ability to expand the market that our platforms and solutions address depends upon a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with them. The market for our platforms and solutions could fail to grow significantly or there could be a reduction in demand for its services as a result of a lack of acceptance, technological challenges, competing services, decreases in spending by current and prospective customers, weakening economic conditions and other causes. If our market does not experience significant growth, or demand for our services decreases, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Wedepend on component and product manufacturing provided by outsourcing partners, most of which are located outside of the U.S. We rely on outsourcing partners primarily located in Europe and Asia to supply and manufacture many components of substantially all of our hardware products. Any failure of these partners to perform can have a negative impact on our cost or supply of components or finished goods. In addition, manufacturing or logistics in these locations or transit to final destinations can be disrupted or become more costly for a variety of reasons, including international trade disputes, natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions, and economic, business, labor, environmental, public health or political issues. Our internal investments and go-to-market strategy may place downward pressure on our operating margins. To increase our revenue growth, we continue to invest in our business, including investments into new markets and in innovation and product development to expand the suite of solutions we provide to our customers. Our operating margins experience downward pressure in the short term as a result of these investments. Furthermore, our investments may not produce the expected results. If we are unable to successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and product development activities, we may experience continued losses. We have not been a leading provider of traffic management and public safety products and services in the past and do not have the level of established contacts and existing business relationships that some of our competitors have. Although it is growing, our presence in the transportation and public safety markets has been limited. As a result of this, although we believe our products and services have significant competitive advantages, we may encounter difficulties in establishing widespread market acceptance of our products in various markets and regions. Early successes in penetrating these markets and regions may not be able to be sustained once our ability to compete with our more established competitors comes to their attention. They may seek to develop more competitive products before their existing contracts expire, reduce prices, use to advantage their past association as a trusted provider and their superior financial and marketing resources and use other stratagems to competitive advantage, which could significantly impact our ability to continue to grow. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We have experienced fluctuations in earnings and cash flows from operations from year to year. To support business growth, or if our business declines, we may need to raise additional capital to support operations, pursue acquisitions or expand our operations. Such additional capital may be raised through bank borrowings, or other debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, and such additional financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to increase revenue, reduce net losses and generate net income; market acceptance of our services, and the overall level of sales of our services; our need to respond to technological advancements and our competitors introductions of new products, services or technologies; our ability to control costs; promptness of customer payments; our ability to successfully negotiate arrangements with credit providers; and enhancements to subsidiaries infrastructure and systems. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, or we may be forced to sell assets at prices below their stated value. If we experience declining or flat revenues and fail to manage such declines effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plans and may experience future weaknesses in operating results. To achieve future growth, we will need to continue to employ qualified personnel and invest in additional research and development and sales and marketing activities, which could limit our ability to reduce expenses or lead to increases in our expenses and result in future declines in operating results. In addition, our future expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage these activities or any revenue declines successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. Customers have no obligation to renew their contracts or subscriptions after they expire, and these contracts and subscriptions may not be renewed on the same or more profitable terms. In addition, many of our large governmental contracts are subject to termination on short notice without cause. As a result, our ability to sustain our revenue base depends in part on contracts and subscription renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our services, the prices of the products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers spending levels. If our customers do not renew their contracts and subscriptions for our products and services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. Our sales cycles for commercial and government clients can be long, unpredictable and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The timing of our revenue from sales to commercial and government clients is difficult to predict. These efforts require us to educate our clients about the use and benefit of our services, including the technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Both governmental and commercial clients typically undertake a significant evaluation and pilot testing process that has in the past resulted in lengthy sales cycles, typically several months. Government oversight and alignment of operational needs and political support may also introduce delay. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that these efforts will produce any sales. In addition, sales and subscriptions are frequently subject to budget constraints and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific client for a particular reporting period are not realized in that period or at all, our results could fall short of expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive service than they had offered individually. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Many of the companies driving this trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary services and technologies. Such combinations and realignments may create more compelling service offerings or offer greater pricing flexibility than we can or may engage in business practices that make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or service functionality. These pressures could result in a loss of customers, reduction in revenues or limitation on our ability to grow. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in time to address the needs of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The cloud-based services and AI-based product markets in which many of our products and services compete are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introduction of new products and services and evolving industry standards. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in large part on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services and develop new service offerings that keep pace with these markets rapid technological developments. Additionally, to achieve market acceptance, we must effectively anticipate and offer products and services that meet changing client demands in a timely manner. Clients may require features and capabilities that our current products and services do not have. If we fail to develop products and services that satisfy customer requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to renew subscriptions with existing clients and our ability to create or increase demand for our products and services will be harmed, and our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the continued services of certain key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the continued services of certain members of our management. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. Although we take prudent steps to retain key personnel, we face competition for qualified individuals from numerous professional services and technology companies. For example, our competitors may be able to attract and retain more qualified professional and technical personnel by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new personnel and retain our current personnel, we may not be able to develop and maintain our services at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. It may also be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals in the timeframe demanded by our clients. Furthermore, some of our contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. 22 Table of Contents We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions which we consummate, and we may be subject to business uncertainties. Uncertainties about the effect of our recent and planned acquisitions on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on our Company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel for a period of time after the acquisitions, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us, which may have an adverse effect on our Company. Employee retention may be particularly challenging, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us. The achievement of the benefits expected from the integration of acquired companies may require us to incur significant costs. The incurrence of any such costs, as well as any unexpected costs or delays, in connection with such integration, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be required to write-down certain assets after completing our required annual evaluations, which may affect our reported financial results. The initial determination of the fair value of assets we acquire upon consummation of an acquisition is based upon an internal valuation. We are required to analyze the carrying value of our acquired intangibles and goodwill on an annual basis going forward. After the detailed annual evaluation of the carrying value of the intangible assets, as supported by external analysis, we may be required to make adjustments to our consolidated balance sheet and/or statement of operations. Any adjustments will affect our reported financial results. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes or duties for our licensing and subscription products and services or pay regulatory fees in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. Primarily due to the nature of our cloud-based services in certain states and countries, we do not believe we are required to collect sales or other related taxes from our customers in certain states or countries. However, one or more other states or countries may seek to impose sales, regulatory fees or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales by us or our resellers and other partners. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other related taxes on our services or paying regulatory fees could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our services or otherwise harm our business and operating results. 23 Table of Contents Improper disclosure of confidential and personal data could result in liability and harm to our reputation. Our handling and storage of the data we collect from some of our customers, vendors and employees, and our processing of data, which may include confidential or personally identifiable information, through the services we provide, may be subject to a variety of laws and regulations, which have been adopted by various federal, state and foreign governments to regulate the collection, distribution, use and storage of personal information of individuals. Several foreign countries in which we conduct business, including the European Economic Area (EEA) and Canada, currently have in place or have recently proposed, laws or regulations concerning privacy, data protection and information security, which are more restrictive than those imposed in the United States. Some of these laws are in their early stages and we cannot yet determine the impact these revised laws and regulations, if implemented, may have on our business. However, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these privacy laws, regulations, policies or obligations or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data in our possession, could result in government enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties and/or adverse publicity, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. For example, the EEA wide General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became applicable on May 25, 2018, replacing the data protection laws of each EEA member state. The GDPR implemented more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements to erase an individuals information upon request, mandatory data breach notification requirements and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. It also significantly increases penalties for non-compliance, including where we act as a service provider (e.g. data processor). If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with applicable current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we use personal data or our marketing practices, fines, for example, of up to 20 million Euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) under the GDPR, or other liabilities, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Data protection regulation remains an area of increased focus in all jurisdictions and data protection regulations continue to evolve. There is no assurance that we will be able to meet new requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personally identifiable information from the EU to the United States without incurring substantial expense or at all. European and/or multi-national customers may be reluctant to purchase or continue to use our services due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. In addition, we may be subject to claims, legal proceedings or other actions by individuals or governmental authorities if they have reason to believe that our data privacy or security measures fail to comply with current or future laws and regulations. Moreover, we must ensure that certain vendors and customers who have access to such information also have the appropriate privacy policies, procedures and protections in place. Although we take customary measures to protect such information, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee or subcontractor error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are growing increasingly sophisticated. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. This environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls throughout our business. Despite these efforts, it is possible that our security controls over data, training and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable or other confidential information. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could be liable under laws and regulations that protect personal or other confidential data resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues and the market perception of our services could be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber and other security threats or disruptions. We face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; insider threats; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. Cyber threats are constant and evolving and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, malicious software, destructive malware, attacks by computer hackers attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release or loss of confidential, personal or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our employees, customers or subcontractors), and corruption of data, networks or systems. In addition, we could be impacted by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities found in products we use or in our partners or customers systems that are used in connection with our business. Our clients and subcontractors face similar threats and/or they may not be able to detect or deter them, or effectively mitigate resulting losses. These threats could damage our reputation as well as our subcontractors ability to perform and could affect our clients ability to pay. Although we use various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats to us, our clients and our partners, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation and/or require remedial actions or lead to loss of business, regulatory actions potential liability and financial loss, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We are dependent upon technology services, and if we experience damage, service interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems, our customer and worker relationships and our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected. Our business could be interrupted by damage to or disruption of our computer, telecommunications equipment, software systems, or software applications. Our customers businesses may be adversely affected by any system, application or equipment failure we experience. As a result of any of the foregoing, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, we may lose customers, our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to contractual liability. Precautions in place to protect us from, or minimize the effect of, such events may not be adequate. In addition, the failure or disruption of mail, communications and/or utilities could cause an interruption or suspension of our operations or otherwise harm our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, revenue, profits and operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, we will not be able to remain competitive, and the demand for our services will likely decline. The markets in which we operate are in general characterized by the following factors: changes due to rapid technological advances; additional qualification requirements related to technological challenges; and evolving industry standards and changes in the regulatory and legislative environment. Our future success will depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and to effectively develop, introduce, market and gain broad acceptance of new product and service enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements. A downturn of the U.S. or global economy or in our ability to provide customers with a sustained level of support could result in our customers using fewer products and services or becoming unable to pay us for our services on a timely basis or at all, which would materially adversely affect our business. Because demand for our solutions and services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. During periods of weak economic growth or economic contraction, the demand for outsourced services could decline. In addition, market forces may restrict our ability to sustain funding for our sales and support efforts. When the level of demand for our products and services drops, our operating profit could be impacted unfavorably because expenses may not decline as quickly as revenues. In these periods, we can only reduce selling and administrative expenses to a certain level without negatively impacting the long-term potential of our business. Additionally, during economic downturns, government agencies and companies may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors, or they may become unable to pay their obligations. If our customers become unable to pay amounts owed to us or pay us more slowly, then our cash flow and profitability may suffer significantly. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations, which could subject our business to higher tax liability. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can offset future taxable income for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2024, we had gross federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $190,624,000 and $180,859,000, respectively. A lack of future taxable income could adversely affect our ability to use these NOLs. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, including through acquisitions, could result in ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and may result in a limitation on the amount of NOL carryforwards that could be used annually to offset future taxable income and taxes payable. Our NOLs at December 31, 2024 may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law and may expire unused or underused, which would prevent us from using our NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income. Assertions by a third party that our services and solutions infringe its intellectual property, whether or not correct, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or result in settlements or licensing arrangements that could affect our short-term or long-term profitability. There is frequent litigation in the software and technology industries based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Because of the potential for court awards that are difficult to predict, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. In addition, our service agreements may require us to indemnify our customers from certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. Competitors may also seek to use these claims and the pendency of associated litigation as a means of attempting to discredit us or make potential customers fearful of using us, which could harm our relationships with our customers, deter future customers from subscribing to our services or expose us to further litigation. These costs, monetary or otherwise, associated with defending against third-party allegations of infringement could have negative effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our services are used to commit intentional or illegal acts, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not secure, and customers may curtail or stop using our services. Certain services offered by us enable customers to capture data from video images. Although our service agreements require our customers to comply with all applicable laws, we do not exercise direct control overuse or content of information obtained by our customers through the use of our services. If our services are used by others to commit bad or illegal acts, we may become subject to claims and subject to other potential liabilities. Defending against such claims could be expensive and time-consuming, and there is a possibility that we could incur significant liability to entities who were harmed by such acts. As a result, our business may suffer, and our reputation may be damaged. We use a limited number of data centers to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could harm our business. Our cloud-based services are hosted from third-party data center facilities located in various parts of the United States. We also use these facilities for some of our development efforts. We do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of these data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. In addition, our operations and development efforts could be seriously affected by failures or interruptions in service at these facilities. Any changes in third-party service levels at these third-party data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services related to the non-performance of these facilities could harm our reputation and may damage our clients businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to clients, subject us to potential liability, cause clients to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, pandemics, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. Conducting international operations subjects us to other risks than those we have generally faced in the United States. These risks include: localization of our services and adaptation for local practices, differences in local, legal standards and regulatory requirements; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; dependence on customers, third parties, and channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added or other tax systems; reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. 26 Table of Contents Our success depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright, service mark and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights, all of which can provide only limited protection. In addition, we have not patented significant technologies used to provide our services. We cannot assure you any future patents that may be applied for and issued will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that we may issue in the future from future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. Material defects or errors in the software that we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions. The software applications underlying our products and services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our products and services could result in: a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; sales credits or refunds to customers; loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; reputational harm; and diversion of internal resources. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our products and services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Government regulation of the Internet, telecommunications and other communications technologies could harm our business and operating results. As internet commerce and telecommunications continue to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments and agencies becomes more likely. Any increase in regulation could affect our clients ability to collect and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet or utilizing telecommunications services may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the internet could diminish the viability of our services, which could harm our business and operating results. Natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, and other catastrophic events or other events outside of our control may damage our business and operating results. In the event of natural disasters, public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, including from the continued effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, political crises, such as terrorism, war, political instability or other conflicts, or other events outside of our control, our business and operating results could suffer. Moreover, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally, which could adversely impact our operating results. 27 Table of Contents Risks relating to our common stock If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business, our market and our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease covering us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. As of March 28, 2025, we have a total of 110,912,209 shares of common stock outstanding. Based on shares outstanding as of March 28, 2025, 14,479,276 shares of common stock, or 13.1%, are beneficially owned by our officers, directors and their affiliated entities, and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. In addition, 9,255,659 shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and warrants as of March 28, 2025, will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, sales of our shares in the public market or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. However, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued on exercise of outstanding options, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market can experience significant price and volume fluctuations that affect the market prices of all securities, including securities of companies like us. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: our operating and financial performance; variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations; future sales of common stock or debt or the perception that sales could occur; investor perception of our business and our prospects; developments relating to the occurrence of risks impacting our company, including any of the risk factors set forth herein; or general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies in our industry. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Investors may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to sell shares or other securities in any other offering at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share paid by investors, and investors purchasing our shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we may sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by investors. On February 10, 2025, we entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement pursuant to which we may, from time to time, offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $25,000,000. As of March 28, 2025, we issued 5,148,600 shares under the Sales Agreement. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that for the foreseeable future we will retain all of our future earnings for the development, operation and growth of our business and general corporate purposes. Any future determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. Our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates will continue to exercise significant influence over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of March 28, 2025, our executive officers, directors, five percent or greater stockholders and their respective affiliates owned in the aggregate approximately 13.1% of our common stock. These stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position and may have a determining role in matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to ultimately determine elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. 28 Table of Contents We are a smaller reporting company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are currently a smaller reporting company, meaning that we are not an investment company, an asset-backed issuer, or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent company that is not a smaller reporting company, and have had annual revenues of less than $100 million and public float of less than $700 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. As a smaller reporting company, we are subject to lesser disclosure obligations in our SEC filings compared to other issuers. Specifically, "smaller reporting companies" are able to provide simplified executive compensation disclosures in their filings, are exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that independent registered public accounting firms provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and have certain other decreased disclosure obligations in their SEC filings, including, among other things, only being required to provide two years of audited consolidated financial statements in annual reports. Decreased disclosures in our SEC filings due to our status as a smaller reporting company may make it harder for investors to analyze our operating results and financial prospects. Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock for three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult, including that: the request of one or more stockholders holding shares in the aggregate entitled to cast not less than 35% of the vote at a meeting is required to call a stockholder meeting. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take certain actions you desire. 29 Table of Contents ITEM1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM1C.CYBERSECURITY Rekor recognizes the critical importance of developing, implementing, and maintaining robust cybersecurity measures to safeguard our information systems and protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our data and our exposure management solutions. Our assessment and management of material risks from cybersecurity threats are integrated into our overall risk management processes. We implement and maintain various technical, physical, and organizational measures, processes, standards and policies designed to manage and mitigate material risks from cybersecurity threats to our information systems and data depending on the environment. We have an established policy on information security, as well as overall corporate information, workforce and workplace standards policies. These are collectively designed to establish auditable procedures for information security oversight by management, including: 1) identification of different types and forms of information, 2) guidelines for acceptable use and dissemination of information, 3) handling use and destruction of information, 4) personnel and physical site security, 5) incident reporting and response, 6) recovery plans, and 7) standards for web-based applications, communications and mobile devices. Three levels of security procedures have been identified as relating to the sensitivity of the information we manage in connection with different operations. Our policies call for the individuals assigned to these procedures to review and certify them annually and to recommend changes where appropriate. All breaches are required to be reported to senior management and the Board, together with a report on response and recovery, as well as recommendations to address further challenges. Our information security procedures are overseen by our Vice President of Risk Management, supported by our Chief Technology Officer and our IT Manager, who are responsible to provide regular reports to our Interim President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as well as the Technology and Social Responsibility Committee and the Governance Committee of our Board. These procedures are responsible for identifying, assessing, and managing cybersecurity threats and risks and work to monitor and evaluate our threat environment and risk profile using various methods. These methods include evaluating our and our industrys risk profile, coordinating with law enforcement concerning select threats, and engaging with third parties to conduct external audits and threat assessments for certain systems. Our Information Security Policy and procedures are reviewed on an ongoing basis. These procedures are implemented by our Vice President of Risk Management, assisted by a managed service provider (MSP). Our MSP has over 15 years of experience and possesses various cybersecurity certifications. Third-party service providers can assist us from time to time in identifying, assessing, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats, including for example cybersecurity consultants and software providers, managed cybersecurity service providers, threat intelligence service providers, forensic investigators, penetration testing firms, dark web monitoring services, and professional services firms, including legal counsel and auditors. By partnering with these specialized providers, we can leverage their insights and expertise to implement cybersecurity strategies and processes that are designed to align with industry best practices. Our senior management evaluates material risks from cybersecurity threats against our overall business objectives and this evaluation and the management of material risks from cybersecurity threats is integrated into our overall risk management processes. This integration is designed to ensure that cybersecurity considerations are part of our decision-making processes. See Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the risks from cybersecurity threats that may materially affect us and how they may do so. ITEM 2.PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices are located at 6721 Columbia Gateway Drive, Suite 400, Columbia, Maryland 21046 and 55a Yigal Alon Street, Tel-Aviv, Israel. We do not own any real property. We do not consider any of our leased properties to be materially important to us. While we believe it is necessary to maintain offices through which our services are coordinated, we feel there are sufficient available office rental properties to adequately serve our needs should we need to relocate or expand our operations. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, the Company may be named as a party to various other lawsuits, claims and other legal and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, infringement of proprietary rights, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to such lawsuits, claims and proceedings the Company accrues reserves when a loss is probable, and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. It is the Companys opinion that the outcome of these proceedings, individually and collectively, will not be material to the Companys consolidated financial statements as a whole. H.C Wainwright & Co., LLC In March 2023, the Company entered into an engagement letter with H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC, ("HCW"), related to a capital raise. That letter agreement contained provisions for both a tail fee due to HCW for any subsequent transactions the Company may enter into during the specified tail period with investors introduced to the Company by HCW during the term of the letter, as well as a right of first refusal ("ROFR") to act as the Company's exclusive underwriter or placement agent on any subsequent financing transactions utilizing an underwriter or placement agent occurring within twelve months from the consummation of a transaction pursuant to the engagement letter. In July 2023, the Company entered into an agreement with one of its warrant holders in connection with the exercise of warrants, which the Company refers to as the July Warrant Exercise Transaction. Subsequent to the July Warrant Exercise Transaction, the Company received a letter from HCW claiming entitlement to certain tail fees and warrant consideration stemming from the July Warrant Exercise Transaction. The Company believed then, and believes now, that this claim is without merit. As a result of this claim and for other reasons articulated to HCW, the Company terminated its engagement letter with HCW, including for cause, which, the Company believes, eliminated both the tail provision and the ROFR provision with respect to the engagement letter. On or about October 23, 2023, HCW filed a complaint in New York State Supreme Court asserting a claim for breach of contract against the Company relating to the July Warrant Exercise Transaction. HCW sought to recover compensatory and consequential damages and certain warrants under its letter agreement with Rekor and other fees, not less than a cash fee of $825,000 and the value of warrants to purchase an aggregate of up to 481,100 shares of common stock of the company at an exercise price of $2.00 per share as well as attorneys fees. On February 29, 2024, HCW filed a notice of discontinuance without prejudice and advised the court that it intended to commence a new proceeding by filing a new complaint that would address the claim in this lawsuit and subsequent events. On March 4, 2024, the court discontinued this lawsuit without prejudice. On February 29, 2024, HCW initiated the new action with the filing of complaint in New York State Supreme Court. In this lawsuit, HCW advances the same breach of contract theory and seeks to recover the same damages as sought in the prior now-dismissed lawsuit. In addition, HCW seeks to recover an additional $2,156,000 in damages plus the value of warrants to purchase an aggregate of up to 805,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.125 per share in connection with Rekors February 2024 offering, which we refer to as the 2024 Public Offering. HCW alleges that Rekor breached its engagement letter with HCW by failing to give HCW notice of this offering and failing to provide HCW with the opportunity to exercise the ROFR with respect to this transaction. On May 3, 2024, Rekor answered HCWs complaint and filed counterclaims against HCW and Armistice Capital LLC ("Armistice") relating to Rekors March 2023 Registered Direct Offering, Armistices trading activity in Rekor common stock, and Rekors 2024 Public Offering. After HCW and Armistice moved to dismiss Rekors counterclaims, Rekor filed amended counterclaims on October 1, 2024. Rekor seeks to recover damages from HCW and Armistice. HCW and Armistice have now moved to dismiss the amended counterclaims. Those motions are pending. Discovery is ongoing in the matter. The Company believes HCW's claims are without merit. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself in this lawsuit. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Claim In 2023 two previous employees of the Company (the Claimants) filed a complaint with OSHA (the OSHA Complaints) against the Company. Shortly after the OSHA Complaints were filed against the Company, the Company filed a position statement to address the OSHA Complaints. On November 30, 2023, OSHA issued its determination that, based on the information gathered thus far in its investigation, OSHA was unable to conclude that there was reasonable cause to believe that a violation of the statute occurred. OSHA thereby dismissed the complaint. Thereafter, Claimants appealed the determination by filing objections and requesting a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge. The Company likewise filed a request for an award of attorneys fees. On January 4, 2024, the Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) processed the appeals and issued its Notice of Docketing and Order of Consolidation. On February 28, 2024, the OALJ issued an Order setting forth a revised schedule governing the case with the start of the hearing scheduled for March 3, 2025. In advance of the March 3, 2025 hearing, the parties agreed to bifurcate the matter into two separate hearings. The first hearing from March 3-5, 2025 was set to address liability and the second from April 24-25, 2025 was set to address damages. The parties were able to settle the claim filed by one employee in advance of the March 3, 2025 hearing. The hearing did proceed for the claim filed by another employee. The Court did not make a finding on liability at the hearing. The Court has requested that the parties prepare and submit post-hearing briefs on or before April 19, 2025. The Company does not know when the Court will make its findings after the receipt of the briefs. The parties are next set to appear before the Court on April 24-25, 2025 to address damages. The Company believes these claims are without merit. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself in this lawsuit. ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 31 Table of Contents PARTII ITEM5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol REKR. Holders As of March 28, 2025, there were 48 registered holders of record of our common stock, excluding stockholders for whom shares are held in nominee or street name. The actual number of common stockholders is greater than the number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our earnings will be used to provide working capital, to support our operations, and to finance the growth and development of our business, including potentially the acquisition of, or investment in, businesses, technologies or products that complement our existing business. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, applicable Delaware law, which provides that dividends are only payable out of surplus or current net profits and other factors our Board of Directors might deem relevant. 32 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities 2023 Promissory Notes with Warrants As previously disclosed under Item 3.02 in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 18, 2023, the Company entered into a securities purchase agreement with certain accredited investors, pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell to the investors in a private placement transaction (i) up to $15,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior secured promissory notes (the "2023 Promissory Notes"), and (ii) warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 7,500,000 shares of common stock of the Company. In connection with the initial closing on January 18, 2023, the Company issued $12,500,000 in aggregate principal amount of notes and warrants to purchase 6,250,000 shares of Common Stock, resulting in proceeds to the Company of $12,500,000 before reimbursement of expenses. New Registered Direct Warrants On July 25, 2023, we entered into a letter agreement with an institutional investor in connection with the Registered Direct Warrants. Pursuant to the letter agreement, we agreed to issue to the institutional investor 2,850,000 unregistered warrants (the "2023 Private Warrants") to purchase shares of our common stock in exchange for the imposition of volume and trading restrictions on the 6,872,853 shares of common stock issued to the institutional investor in connection with exercise of the 2023 Private Warrants. The 2023 Private Warrants terminate on January 25, 2029, and are exercisable after issuance only for cash. The 2023 Private Warrants have an exercise price of $3.25 per share. The shares of common stock underlying the 2023 Private Warrants have been registered for resale on Form S-3. ATDAcquisition As previously disclosed under Item 3.02 in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 3, 2024, as part of the purchase price for the ATD acquisition the Company issued 2,832,135 shares of the Companys common stock as part of the consideration. Additionally, 664,329 shares were be issued and delivered to the Seller on the twelve-month anniversary of the Closing Date. The ATD Holdback Shares were deemed to be liability based and are measured at fair value each reporting period. The shares issued and issuable in connection with the ATD Acquisition have been registered on a resale registration statement on Form S-3, declared effective by the SEC on June 17, 2024. 2023 Promissory Notes Redemption On March 4, 2024, the Company completed the redemption of all the 2023 Promissory Notes. The 2023 Promissory Notes at the redemption price of 115% of the $12,500,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Promissory Notes, or approximately $14,375,000, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date of approximately $263,000, (the Redemption Payment). The noteholders elected to accept $1,875,000 of the Redemption Payment in the form of 750,000 unregistered shares of the Companys common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, having a value of $2.50 per share, with the remainder of the Redemption Payment paid in cash. On July 19, 2024, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-3 to register these shares, which was declared effective by the SEC on July 30, 2024. Warrant Exercise Agreements On June 20, 2024, the Company entered into various Warrant Exercise Agreements with certain holders of the 2023 Warrants (each an Exercising Holder and collectively, the Exercising Holders), pursuant to which the Company reduced the strike price of the 2023 Warrants from $2.00 per warrant to $1.40 per warrant to induce their exercise. In June 2024, all but one of the Exercising Holders subsequently exercised 1,400,000 warrants for common stock in exchange for $1,960,000. In July 2024, the remaining Exercising Holder exercised 2,275,000 warrants for common stock in exchange for $3,185,000. In consideration for the Companys agreement to reduce the exercise price, the Exercising Holders agreed to a concomitant reduction in the number of shares into which the 2023 Warrants are exercisable, from 5,250,000 to 3,675,000. This modification resulted in a decrease in the overall fair value of the equity classified warrants and since no incremental value was given to the Exercising Holders, nothing was recorded in the consolidated financial statements related to the modification. The shares issued in connection with the Warrant Exercise Agreement have been registered on a resale registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on July 19, 2024, and declared effective by the SEC on July 30, 2024. ITEM 6.[RESERVED] 33 Table of Contents ITEM7.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report and the historical financial statements of Rekor Systems, Inc., and the related notes thereto. Overview Rekor is working to revolutionize public safety, urban mobility, and transportation management using AI-powered solutions designed to meet the distinct demands of each market we serve. We work hand-in-hand with our customers to deliver mission-critical traffic and engineering services that assist them in achieving their goals. Our vision is to improve the lives of citizens and the world around them by enabling safer, smarter, and greener roadways and communities. We work towards this by collecting, connecting, and organizing the worlds mobility data, and making it accessible and useful to our customers for real-time insights and decisioning for situational awareness, rapid response, risk mitigation, and predictive analytics for resource and infrastructure planning and reporting. General The information provided in this discussion and analysis of Rekors financial condition, and results of operations covers the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. In 2024, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests of All Traffic Data Systems (ATD). 34 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Dispositions On January 2, 2024, we completed the acquisition of All Traffic Data Services, LLC (ATD) for an aggregate purchase price of $20,576,000. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to our acquisition of ATD. Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties We look to identify the various trends, market cycles, uncertainties and other factors that may provide us with opportunities and present challenges that impact our operations and financial condition from time to time. Although there are many that we may not or cannot foresee, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by the following: Growing Smart City Market According to a United Nations report, about two-thirds of the world population will live in urban areas by 2050. The worlds cities are getting larger, with longer commutes and the resulting impact on the environment and the quality of life. This trend requires forward-thinking officials to manage assets and resources more efficiently. We believe that advancements in big data connected devices and artificial intelligence can provide Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) solutions that can be used to reduce congestion, keep travelers safe, improve transportation, protect the environment, respond to climate change, and enhance the quality of life. We believe our data-driven, artificial intelligence-aided solutions provide useful tools that can effectively tackle the challenges cities and communities are facing today and will face over the coming decades. AI for Infrastructure We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of conditions on roadways and other transportation infrastructure can significantly affect the safety and efficiency of travel in the future. As vehicles move towards full automation, there is a need for real-time data and actionable insights around traffic flow, identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way vehicles, stopped vehicles, or/and pedestrians on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can also benefit from rapid, lower cost identification of existing and potential customers in streamlining and accelerating local vehicular flow as well as data about the vehicles on the roadway. Connected Vehicle Data Todays new vehicles are equipped with dozens of sensors, collecting information about internal systems, external hazards, and driving behaviors. This data is a resource that transportation and other agencies are beginning to find valuable uses for. Notably, the data from these vehicles represent a virtual network that is independent of the infrastructure which is maintained and operated by the public agencies. Connected vehicle sensors can provide important information related to hazardous conditions, speed variations, intersection performance, and more. This data can help agencies and municipalities gain more visibility about conditions on their roads, supplementing data from existing infrastructure and allowing transportation information from rural areas that are not served by ITS infrastructure to be integrated into the overall analysis. New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve many users who could not afford the cost, or adapt to the restrictions of, conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions that are testing vehicle recognition systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of vehicle recognition sensors. We also expect the availability of faster, higher-accuracy, lower-cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. Adaptability of the Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy, affordability and ability to capture additional vehicle data will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. Based on published benchmarks, our software currently outperforms competitors. However, large users of existing technology, such as toll road operators, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop their own systems or secure advanced systems from others who are also working to develop them. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We expect contactless compliance programs to be expanded as the types of vehicle related violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where it is and is not beneficial. We believe that future legislation will increasingly allow for automated enforcement of regulations such as motor vehicle insurance and registration requirements. Communities are currently searching for better means of achieving compliance with minor vehicle offenses, such as lapsed registrations, and safety issues such as motorists who fail to stop for school buses. For example, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states are considering authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. To the extent that legislative implementation is required, a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process is involved. However, as states expand auto-enforcement, the market for these products and services should broaden in the public safety market. Graphic Processing Unit (GPU) Improvements We expect our business to benefit from more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognition. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in the adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. Edge Processing Demand for actionable roadway information continues to grow in parallel with sensor improvements, such as increasingly sophisticated internal software and optical and other hardware adapted to the use of this software. Over the last several decades, sensors have evolved and unlocked new capabilities with each advancement. Further, cellular networks have been optimized for downloading data rather than uploading data. As a result, while download speeds have improved significantly due to large investments in cellular infrastructure, this has resulted in relatively small improvements to cellular upload speeds. With roadside deployments experiencing explosive growth in count and density, scalability, latency and bandwidth have become aspects of competition in the market. Our systems have been designed to address these issues through the use of more effective edge processing, enabled both by incorporating the increasingly effective new GPUs into our systems and continual improvements in the efficiency of our AI algorithms. Our edge processing systems ingest local HD video streams at the source and convert the raw video data to text data, dramatically reducing the volume of data that needs to be transferred through the network. Edge processing allows us to scale a network dramatically without the bandwidth, cost, latency and dependability limitations that are experienced by other networks where raw video needs to be streamed to the cloud for processing. 35 Table of Contents Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a visible leadership position. As a result, we have made significant investments in our business development, marketing and eCommerce activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our products and services within key markets. If we are able to maintain a sustained presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree to which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) - The IIJA, signed into law on November 15, 2021, provides for significant national investments in the transportation systems in the United States, including over $150 billion in new spending on roadway infrastructure, including intelligent transportation systems. We believe that there will continue to be bi-partisan support for these programs and that our comprehensive offering of solutions positions the Company well to emerge as a technology leader in the expanded market for roadway intelligence that will benefit from this legislation. We have identified opportunities to access federal funding streams, and we are working to implement a program that capitalizes on this unprecedented U.S. federal investment in public safety, homeland security, and transportation infrastructure and ensures that our customers are positioned to capture as much of this extraordinary government spending as possible. Beyond the many recurring federal grant programs that could support customer purchases, and the $350 billion in American Rescue Plan Act allocations that public agencies are receiving now, we are particularly excited about the prospect of benefitting from the following new grant sources that are contained in the IIJA: $200 million annually for a Safe Streets and Roads for All program that would make competitive grants for state projects that significantly reduce or eliminate transportation-related fatalities. $150 million for the current administration to establish a grant program to modernize state data collection systems $500 million for the Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Grant Program that would support demonstration projects on smart technologies that improve transportation efficiency and safety. Recent Acquisition - In the current year, Rekor has acquired one subsidiary as part of its plans to advance its appeal to national and local transportation agencies. We acquired one of the leading existing providers of traffic data services in the United States. This acquisition has led to increased visibility for the Company among national and state level DOTs in the United States. Challenges to Executing on the Corporate Strategy As an acquirer and integrator of established technology companies in the ITS industry, there is an inherent risk associated with the successful implementation and execution of the strategy. If Rekor is unable to successfully implement and execute its plans, there could be a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, and financial condition. Inability to Achieve Profitability - Rekor continues to grow its business, its operating expenses and capital expenditures have increased, and it has not yet achieved the level of sustaining profitability. As a result, if the Company is unable to generate additional revenue or achieve planned efficiencies in operations, or if its revenue declines significantly, Rekor may not be able to achieve profitability in the future, which would materially and adversely affect the Companys business. Inability to Retain Qualified Personnel Rekors success depends on the continued efforts and abilities of the senior management team and key engineering and marketing specialists. Although Rekor has employment agreements with these employees, they may not choose to remain employed by Rekor. Should one or more key personnel leave the Company or join a competitor, the Companys business, operating results, and financial condition can be adversely affected. Inability to Compete Effectively - Competition and technological advancements by others may erode the Companys business and result in inability to capture new business and revenue. Each business line faces significant competitive pressures within the markets in which they operate. While Rekor continues to work to develop and strengthen its competitive advantages, many factors such as market and technology changes may erode or prevent this. If the Company is unable to successfully maintain its competitive advantage, the Companys business, operating results, and financial condition can be adversely affected. Cyber Security Risks - Rekor relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. A significant disruption or failure in the information technology systems could result in services interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory compliance failures, an inability to protect information and assets against intruders, and other operational difficulties. This could result in the loss of assets and critical information and expose the Company to remediation costs and reputational damage. Although Rekor takes reasonable steps intended to mitigate these risks, a significant disruption or cyber intrusion could lead to misappropriation of assets or data corruption and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Intellectual Property Claims - Third parties that have been issued patents or have filed for patent applications similar to those used by the Companys operating subsidiaries may result in intellectual property claims against the Company. Rekor cannot determine with certainty whether existing third-party patents or the issuance of any future third party patents would require any of its operating subsidiaries to alter their respective technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. Should the Company be unable to defend against such claims, the Companys business, operating results, and financial condition can be adversely affected. Other than as discussed above and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any trends, events or uncertainties that are likely to have a material effect on our financial condition. 36 Table of Contents Components of Operating Results Revenues The Company derives its revenues primarily from the sale of its roadway data aggregation, traffic management and licensing offerings. These offerings include a mixture of data collection, implementation, engineering, customer support and maintenance services as well as software and hardware. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to the Companys customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products and services. Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, data subscriptions, sub-consultant services and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when they incur. 37 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing, research and development and depreciation and amortization. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expenses. Operating expenses also include impairment of assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, and administrative departments. Additional expenses include office leases, professional fees, and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the costs associated with our growth and the costs of accounting, compliance, legal, insurance, and investor relations as a public company. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. However, our general and administrative expenses have decreased as a percentage of our revenue and, to the extent we continue to be successful in generating increased revenue, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We will require significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to continue the rate of growth in our revenues, further penetrate existing markets and expand our customer base into new markets. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses are primarily attributable to our capital investments and consist of fixed asset depreciation, amortization of intangibles considered to have finite lives, and amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists primarily of legal settlements, legal judgements, interest income and expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, gains or losses on the sale of fixed assets, interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and note receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. 38 Table of Contents Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars are presented below. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the foregoing information contained in this Item 7 and with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Only historical operating results are presented below. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 Revenue $ 46,028 $ 34,933 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 23,344 16,499 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 30,676 27,038 Selling and marketing expenses 7,858 7,347 Research and development expenses 18,766 18,271 Impairment of intangible assets 10,214 - Depreciation and amortization 9,493 7,894 Total operating expenses 77,007 60,550 Loss from continuing operations (54,323 ) (42,116 ) Other income (expense): (Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt (4,693 ) 527 Interest expense, net (2,645 ) (3,596 ) Gain on remeasurement of ATD Holdback Shares 599 - Loss on offering costs - Prepaid Advance (888 ) - Loss on settlement of Prepaid Advance (900 ) - Gain on the sale of Global Public Safety 1,500 - Other expense, net (15 ) (468 ) Total other expense, net (7,042 ) (3,537 ) Loss before income taxes (61,365 ) (45,653 ) Provision for income taxes 45 32 Net loss $ (61,410 ) $ (45,685 ) 39 Table of Contents Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % Revenue $ 46,028 $ 34,933 $ 11,095 32 % The increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily attributable to our Urban Mobility product line. During the year ended December 31, 2024, revenue attributable to our Urban Mobility product line was $28,688,000 compared to $16,773,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2024, revenue attributable to our ATD acquisition was $10,125,000 and is included as part of our Urban Mobility revenue stream. Cost of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization $ 23,344 $ 16,499 $ 6,845 41 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization increased compared to prior year primarily due to an increase in personnel and other direct costs such as hardware that were incurred to support our increase in revenue. The costs of revenue increased at a higher rate than our revenue increased as our mix of revenue shifted to more labor intensive activities. As we continue to deploy our technology, we anticipate our margins to improve. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2024, $3,672,000 of the increase was related to our acquisition of ATD. 40 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 30,676 $ 27,038 $ 3,638 13 % Selling and marketing expenses 7,858 7,347 511 7 % Research and development expenses 18,766 18,271 495 3 % Impairment of intangible assets 10,214 - 10,214 - Depreciation and amortization 9,493 7,894 1,599 20 % Total operating expenses $ 77,007 $ 60,550 $ 16,457 27 % General and Administrative Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, the increase in general and administrative expenses compared to the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily due to: a $2,150,000 increase in payroll and payroll related expenses which includes $1,294,000 related to our operations of ATD. a $661,000 and $323,000 increase in rent and utility expense, respectively, which are primarily related to the additional leases as part of the ATD acquisition. a $269,000 increase in insurance expense which is primarily related to higher premiums and the addition of the ATD operations. a $236,000 increase in board fees, excluding share-based compensation due to the additional board members in 2024. Selling and Marketing Expenses The increase in selling and marketing expenses during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily due to a $610,000 increase as result of the acquisition of ATD. Research and Development Expense Research and development expenses during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the year ended December 31, 2023, remained consistent. Impairment of Intangible Assets As a result of sales performance being below expectation in part due to slower customer adoption, longer sales cycles and market conditions, the Company identified a triggering event and performed an analysis of its intangible assets. As a result of the forementioned factors and their potential future impact, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $10,214,000 as of December 31, 2024. 41 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization during the year is attributable primarily to the intangible assets that were acquired as part of our acquisition of ATD. Other Income (Expense) Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 $ % Other income (expense): (Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt $ (4,693 ) $ 527 $ (5,220 ) -991 % Interest expense, net (2,645 ) (3,596 ) 951 26 % Gain on remeasurement of ATD Holdback Shares 599 - 599 - Loss on offering costs - Prepaid Advance (888 ) - (888 ) - Loss on settlement of Prepaid Advance (900 ) - (900 ) - Gain on the sale of Global Public Safety 1,500 - 1,500 - Other expense, net (15 ) (468 ) 453 97 % Total other expense, net $ (7,042 ) $ (3,537 ) $ (3,505 ) -99 % Loss on extinguishment of debt was a result of early redemption of the 2023 Promissory Notes. As part of the redemption, we recorded accelerated debt issuance costs of $2,818,000 and a Redemption Payment of $1,875,000 which we settled through the issuance of common stock. Interest expense decreased period over period due to the early redemption of the 2023 Promissory Notes. In connection with the sale of Global Public Safety, we recognized a gain on the sale of the business of $1,500,000 during the year ended December 31, 2024. On August 14, 2024, we entered into a Prepaid Advance Agreement under which funds were advanced to the Company and the lender had the ability to satisfy the advance in exchange for shares in the Company. We incurred issuance costs and original issuance discounts totaling approximately $888,000 associated with the issuance of the Prepaid Advance. Additionally, during the year the Company elected to terminate the Prepaid Advance Agreement. All amounts due were settled and we recorded $900,000 in charges related to the settlement of the Prepaid Advance liability. 42 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Measures EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, (v) losses associated with equity method investments, (vi) merger and acquisition transaction costs and (vii) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net loss $ (61,410 ) $ (45,685 ) Provision for income taxes 45 32 Interest expense, net 2,645 3,596 Depreciation and amortization 9,493 7,894 EBITDA $ (49,227 ) $ (34,163 ) Share-based compensation 4,829 4,352 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt 4,693 (527 ) Impairment of intangible assets 10,214 - Loss on offering costs - Prepaid Advance 888 - Loss on settlement of Prepaid Advance 900 - Gain on the sale of Global Public Safety (1,500 ) - Loss due to the remeasurement of the STS Earnout and Contingent Consideration, net 100 384 Impairment of SAFE agreement - 101 Adjusted EBITDA $ (29,103 ) $ (29,853 ) 43 Table of Contents Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin Adjusted Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure that we define as revenue less cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization. We define Adjusted Gross Margin as our Adjusted Gross Profit divided by our revenue. We expect Adjusted Gross Margin to continue to improve over time to the extent that we can gain efficiencies through the adoption of our technology and successfully cross-sell and upsell our current and future offerings. However, our ability to improve Adjusted Gross Margin over time is not guaranteed and could be impacted by the factors affecting our performance. We believe Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin are useful to investors, as they eliminate the impact of certain non-cash expenses and allow a direct comparison of these measures between periods without the impact of non-cash expenses and certain other nonrecurring operating expenses. The following table sets forth the components of the Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 (Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 46,028 $ 34,933 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 23,344 16,499 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 22,684 $ 18,434 Adjusted Gross Margin 49.3 % 52.8 % Adjusted Gross Margin for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased from 52.8% to 49.3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. The fluctuation in Adjusted Gross Margin is typically correlated to the mix of software sales versus service type work. Typically our software sales carry a higher Adjusted Gross Margin. 44 Table of Contents Key Performance Indicators We regularly review several indicators, including the following key indicators, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. Recurring Revenue As part of the ongoing development of our selling strategy, we have been focusing on sales that employ contracts with recurring revenue. We expect these contracts to provide a more predictable stream of revenues, compared to one-time sales of hardware and software licenses which are generally more difficult to predict. Our recurring revenue model and revenue retention rates provide significant visibility into our future operating results and cash flow from operations. This visibility enables us to better manage and invest in our business. The following table sets forth our recurring revenue for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change $ % Recurring revenue $ 22,590 $ 20,755 $ 1,835 9 % We expect to continue efforts to secure long-term contracts with recurring revenue as part of our business model, which is intended to cause recurring revenue growth in future periods to continue to increase. However, procurement requirements for some of our largest customers may result in periods when there is an increase one-time sales as compared to recurring revenues, which may cause the proportion of recurring revenues generated in those periods to fluctuate. In addition, there may be an increase in one time sales as a result of initial installations related to the development of recurring revenue. Performance Obligations While a portion of the total contract value won in a particular period represents revenue earned during the period, the remainder represents future performance obligations that can provide an indication of our future revenues. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $14,450,000 of performance obligations with respect to contracts that were closed prior to December 31, 2024 but have a contractual period beyond December 31, 2024. These contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, during which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately $12,036,000 of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following four years. On occasion, our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the contract related to the performance obligation for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. 45 Table of Contents Lease Obligations As of December 31, 2024, we had significant leased building space at the following locations: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Tel Aviv, Israel We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We expect to improve, replace and increase facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our planned operations. 46 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods below were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities - continuing operations $ (32,469 ) $ (32,178 ) $ (291 ) -1 % Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (9,370 ) 270 (9,640 ) -3570 % Net cash provided by financing activities 31,455 45,602 (14,147 ) -31 % Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents - continuing operations $ (10,384 ) $ 13,694 $ (24,078 ) -176 % Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2024, increased by $291,000, which was primarily attributable to an increased loss which was offset by non-cash adjustments during the year, primarily the loss on extinguishment of debt of $4,693,000. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the net cash outflow of $9,222,000 related to the acquisition of ATD. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased by $14,147,000 from the year ended December 31, 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2024, as part of our 2024 Public Offering and Prepaid Advance, we received net proceeds of $26,362,000 and $14,100,000, respectively, these proceeds were partially offset by the repayment of our 2023 Promissory Notes. During the year ended December 31, 2023, as part of our 2023 Promissory Notes and the 2023 Registered Direct Offering, we received net proceeds of $11,100,000 and $9,159,000, respectively. Additionally, in the third quarter of 2023, we received gross proceeds of $10,996,000 related to the exercise of warrants associated to the 2023 Registered Direct Offering. Lastly, in the fourth quarter of 2023, we raised $14,330,000 related to our Series A Prime Revenue Sharing Notes. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, the issuance of debt and the sale of equity. As of December 31, 2024, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $5,329,000 and working capital of $1,707,000, as compared to unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $15,713,000 and working capital of $8,100,000 as of December 31, 2023. Liquidity and Going Concern Management has assessed going concern uncertainty to determine whether there is sufficient cash on hand, together with expected capital raises and working capital, to assure operations for a period of at least one year from the date these consolidated financial statements are issued, which is referred to as the look-forward period, as defined in U.S. GAAP. As part of this assessment, based on conditions that are known and reasonably knowable to management, management has considered various scenarios, forecasts, projections, and estimates and will make certain key assumptions. These assumptions include, among other factors, its ability to raise additional capital, the expected timing and nature of the Companys programs and projected cash expenditures and its ability to delay or curtail these programs or expenditures to the extent management has the proper authority to do so and considers it probable that those implementations can be achieved within the look-forward period. The Company has generated losses and negative operating cashflows since its inception and has relied on external sources of financing to support the cash flow from operations. The Company attributes losses to non-capital expenditures related to the scaling of existing products and services, development of new products and services and marketing efforts associated with these existing and new products and services. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company had working capital of $1,707,000 and a net loss of $61,410,000. Based on the Company's current business plan assumptions and the expected cash burn rate, the Company believes that the existing cash is insufficient to fund its current level of operations for the next twelve months following the issuance of these consolidated financial statements. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. On February 10, 2025, the Company entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the Sales Agreement) with Northland Securities, Inc., pursuant to which the Company may, from time to time, offer and sell shares of the Companys common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $25,000,000. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the Sales Agreement. The Company's ability to generate positive operating results and execute its business strategy will depend on (i) its ability to continue the growth of its customer base, (ii) its ability to continue to improve its quarterly financial metrics such as net loss and cash used from operating activities (iii) the continued performance of its contractors, subcontractors and vendors, (iv) its ability to maintain and build good relationships with investors, lenders and other financial intermediaries, (v) its ability to maintain timely collections from existing customers, and (vi) the ability to scale its business processes. To the extent that events outside of the Company's control have a significant negative impact on economic and/or market conditions, they could affect payments from customers, services and supplies from vendors, its ability to continue to secure and implement new business, raise capital, and otherwise, depending on the severity of such impact, materially adversely affect its operating results. 47 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources or capital expenditures. We have certain contractual obligations for future payments. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for our required operating and financing lease payments and Note 9 for our required debt payments. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of our operations is based upon our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the application of the estimates inherently required therein, are reasonable. These estimates are periodically reevaluated, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Rekor bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the management of Rekor believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form managements basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that may not be readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, or if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. 48 Table of Contents Valuation of long lived assets Fixed assets and amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for impairment as events or changes in circumstances occur indicating that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Undiscounted cash flow analyses are used to determine if the carrying amount of the asset is recoverable. If impairment is determined to exist, the charge is calculated based on estimated fair value. Our analysis requires a blend of judgment and estimation, relying on both quantitative data and qualitative insights to assess our ability to sustain our operations over the forward-looking period. Managements analysis involves a comprehensive evaluation of numerous factors to determine whether we can continue our operations during the look-forward period. We evaluate our recent financial performance and our ability to meet our projected financial performance. Factors such as financial projections, profitability and cash flow require estimation and are examined to gauge our financial health. Conducting a fair value analysis is an exercise in judgment, requiring us to evaluate data points, forecasts, and qualitative insights to arrive at a comprehensive assessment of our ability to derive value from our assets during the look-forward period. In this process, we must exercise caution, recognizing the inherent uncertainties and limitations of our estimations and financial analysis while striving to provide feasible plan. Business Combinations We account for business combinations by recognizing the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. The excess purchase consideration over the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we make estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets such as identified customer relationships and trade names. We generally determine the fair value of acquired customer relationships using the multi-period excess earnings method, a form of the income approach. Estimates in valuing identifiable intangible assets include, but are not limited to, projected revenue growth rates, customer retention rates and an appropriate discount rate. Our estimate of fair value is based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, we may make adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with offsetting adjustments to goodwill. New Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Business and Significant Accounting Policies. 49 Table of Contents