ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve substantial risks and uncertainties including particularly statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, prospective products and services, timing and likelihood of success, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and future results of current and anticipated products and services. These statements involve uncertainties, such as known and unknown risks, and are dependent on other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements we express or imply. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions described under the sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and our Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Specific factors that might cause actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to: significant risks, uncertainties and other considerations discussed in this report; operating risks, including supply chain, equipment or system failures, cyber and other malicious attacks and other events that could affect the amounts and timing of revenues and expenses; reputational risks affecting customer confidence or willingness to do business with us; financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts; our ability to successfully identify, integrate and complete acquisitions and dispositions; our ability to access the public markets for debt or equity capital; political, legal, regulatory, governmental, administrative and economic conditions and developments in the United States (U.S.) and other countries in which we operate and, in particular, the impact of recent and future federal, state and local regulatory proceedings and changes, including legislative and regulatory initiatives associated with our products; current and future litigation; competition from other companies with an established position in the markets we enter or who are seeking to enter markets we already serve; our failure to successfully develop products using our technology that are accepted by the markets we serve or intend to serve or the development of new technologies that change the nature of our business or provide our customers with products or services superior to or less expensive than ours; the inability of our strategic plans and goals to expand our geographic markets, customer base and product and service offerings; risks associated with pandemics and other global health emergencies, such as the spread of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) around the world since the first quarter of 2020 which has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets and has created significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies; and risks associated with cyberattacks on international, national, local and Company information infrastructure by rogue businesses or criminal elements or by agents of governments engaged in asymmetric disruptions for competitive, economic, or military reasons. 29 Table of Contents Investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein. Other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change in the future. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 (the 2020 Annual Report), our Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 and any updates contained herein as well as those set forth in our reports and other filings made with the SEC. General Overview Rekor's mission is to provide intelligent infrastructure and insights that build safer, smarter, and more efficient cities around the world. We are a leader in the emerging market to provide support services for intelligent infrastructure and intelligent roadways, land have developed a suite of products and services using AI and other recent technological advances to provide innovative solutions. With a global footprint across 65 countries, we provide actionable and real-time insights to commercial clients, as well as government entities. Our vision is to provide innovations that improve the lives, safety and well-being of people using artificial intelligence (AI) and other advanced technologies. Our capabilities appeal to businesses and governmental entities in solving a wide variety of real-world mobility and infrastructure-related operational challenges. Using recent advances in data collection, analysis and transmission the Company generates useable solutions that empower smart cities and intelligent roadways. Our suite of solutions has applications in the field of safety and incident management, traffic and infrastructure, sustainability and green initiatives, and socioeconomic and demographic mobility. Our products and services contribute to building environmentally friendly cities and roadways that leverage our insights to operate more efficiently and sustainably. We improve the commute of motorists by reducing congestion and optimizing traffic flow. We track traffic flow, pattern, volume, weight in motion and vehicle classification to aid in the engineering and planning of modern infrastructures. Our solutions allow decision makers to measure and reduce the impact of greenhouse gas emissions and vehicle air pollution on communities. Customers currently use our products or services in applications that include public safety, transportation, parking, security, customer experience, operational efficiency and logistics. We create safer communities by providing government agencies with the technology they need to effectively protect and serve their citizens and provide businesses with solutions to improve customer experience, enhance revenue, reduce operating costs and drive operational efficiency. Rekor aggregates data using mobile and mounted optical sensors with on-device (edge) processing, as well as through acquisition of data feeds from third party vendors. Our tech stack, with its open architecture, allows seamless integration with any Internet Protocol (IP) optical device, reducing our clients need to invest in legacy system upgrades. We use edge processing to capture, store, and process the data close to the source. Our proprietary technology allows for cost effective real-time monitoring by reducing the bandwidth needed to transmit information for analysis, setting us apart from other data aggregators. We use artificial intelligence and machine learning to process large amounts of information we capture to provide tailored solutions to our clients. All our data passes through our sophisticated and proprietary personally identifiable information (PII) filter that deidentifies the data in an irreversible way before it is incorporated into our roadway intelligence platform. Our proprietary algorithms are created to be in full compliance with the security and privacy requirements of each end user. 30 Table of Contents Rekor One is our single source platform for roadway intelligence. Our platform was built to allows us to create custom applications for an array of use cases. For traffic and infrastructure, the analytics can be used for engineering and planning studies, measuring of vehicle flow and patterns, and for the studying of vehicle weights and classifications. Safety and incident management is another core pillar, as one can access live streams of video, track traffic congestion, receive wrong way and incident alerts, and detect unsafe speeds or hazardous elements. Additionally, sustainability and green initiatives allow users to count electric vehicles based on frequency for charging station planning, compare electric vehicle density vs. total traffic, analyze United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) air pollution, smog, and other emissions, and track electric vehicle geographic traffic flow. We seek to deliver insights through an expanding software portfolio that not only addresses the challenges our customers are currently facing but also empower them to effectively deal with their evolving impending challenges. Rekor Ones industry leading features allow users to observe security and privacy protocols that are customized to the needs and requirements of each end-user department or agency. This facilitates high level compliance with the latest advances in privacy and information security requirements. Currently, our vehicle recognition software has the capability to analyze multi-spectral images and video streams and concurrently extract license plate data by state or province from approximately 80 countries, together with the vehicles make, model, color, body type and direction of travel. When combined with speed-optimized code, parallel processing capability and best-in-class hardware accessories, such as optical sensors and communications modules, the software captures license plate data and vehicle characteristics at extremely high vehicle speeds with a high degree of accuracy. Our software can effectively operate in unusually difficult conditions, such as low lighting, poor weather, extreme camera viewing angles, and obstructions. We seek to address issues of aging infrastructure, increasing traffic congestion, and depleting natural resources, by providing customers with the ability to collect, analyze and communicate actionable roadway and community intelligence in an accurate, real-time, and cost-effective manner. We provide actionable and differentiated answers on a single platform that is built to serve multiple missions. With the ability to generate more accurate results with less expensive hardware than legacy systems, we have changed the dynamics of the existing market, enabling the creation of increasingly robust networks to aggregate data at lower cost. We can process the data using artificial intelligence to develop custom-built solutions for an array of client needs. Our operations are conducted by our wholly owned subsidiary, Rekor Recognition Systems, Inc. (Rekor Recognition). In connection with the development of several new public safety products, we acquired substantially all the assets of OpenALPR Technology, Inc. in March 2019. This acquisition (the OpenALPR Technology Acquisition) transferred vehicle recognition software and associated licenses and proprietary rights to OpenALPR Software Solutions, LLC (OpenALPR), a new wholly owned subsidiary of Rekor Recognition. Since the Open ALPR Technology Acquisition, our engineering teams have worked continuously to expand and refine the Open ALPR platform. In October 2020, we announced the launch of Rekor One, an advanced platform that serves as a unifying source of roadway intelligence for multiple government agencies across cities, counties and states. The Rekor One platform supports multiple community safety, intelligent roadway and revenue generation activities that can benefit from the use of our advanced vehicle recognition software. Recent Developments The most significant developments in our company and business since January 1, 2021 are described below: On August 9, 2021, we announced that we had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Waycare Technologies, Ltd. ("Waycare"), a privately held company focused on optimizing traffic management systems using predictive analytics. We will provide $61,000,000 in total consideration consisting of a combination of cash and common stock. The closing of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is currently anticipated to occur during the third quarter of 2021. In July 2021, we announced the selection of or Rekor One vehicle recognition system by the City of Albany, New York, in partnership with the Albany Police Department. Rekor was selected after a competitive bid process in June 2021 to help maintain the safety and security of the community and its citizens. In July 2021, we announced that Wisconsins Waukesha County has selected the Rekor One vehicle recognition system for implementation at eight of its public park entrances. The solution was selected after a competitive bid process in early 2021, to help maintain the security of each location and to ensure entrance fee compliance. On February 26, 2021, we announced that the State of North Dakota Parks and Recreation Department selected our Rekor One solution to help state park leadership understand use patterns and plan for future needs. 31 Table of Contents In February 2021, we completed an underwritten public offering of 6,126,939 shares of common stock of the Company at a price to the public of $12.25 per share. We received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $75.1 million from the offering, prior to deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us. We intend to use these proceeds to increase our product development, sales and marketing efforts and to consider strategic partnerships and acquisitions in our target markets. As a result of the offering, all of our Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock automatically converted into 899,174 shares of our common stock. In addition, on February 9, 2021, we issued 517,611 shares of our common stock, due to the automatic conversion of 240,861 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, as a result of the volume weighted share price of our common stock exceeding certain thresholds. These automatic conversions resulted in the retirement of all of our outstanding preferred shares. On January 7, 2021, we announced that the State of Oklahoma had integrated our Rekor One platform across relevant state systems to provide vehicle information associated with uninsured motorists as part of the states Uninsured Vehicle Enforcement Diversion (UVED) Program, which is operated by the Oklahoma District Attorneys Council. Oklahomas UVED Program uses our vehicle recognition technology to leverage existing state resources to ensure that all drivers have at least the minimum required amount of liability insurance, ultimately leading to safer roadways. The platform allows for real-time detection of non-compliant vehicles and instant data consolidation into a regularly updating insurance system connected to the states enforcement and intervention programs. We assist Oklahoma drivers by providing a one-stop web portal for uninsured motorists to easily find non-standard and standard insurance for their vehicle. With the successful implementation of Oklahomas UVED Program, we have now established a leading position in the implementation of an innovative program now under active consideration by a number of other states. Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties We look to identify the various trends, market cycles, uncertainties and other factors that may provide us with opportunities and present challenges that impact our operations and financial condition from time to time. Although there are many that we may not or cannot foresee, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by the following: Growing Smart City Market According to a United Nations report, about two-third of the world population will live in urban areas by 2050. Our cities are getting larger, our commute longer, roads bigger and the impact on the environment and the quality of life is worse than ever been. This trend requires forward-thinking officials to manage assets and resources more efficiently than they have in the past. We believe that advancements in big data, connected devices and artificial intelligence will allow for intelligent transportation systems (ITS) solutions and applications that can be used to reduce congestion, keep travelers safe, improve transportation, protect the environment, respond to climate change, and enhance the quality of life. We believe our data-driven, artificial intelligence aided solutions provide the necessary tools to more effectively tackle the challenges cities and communities are facing today and over the coming decades. AI for the Roadway We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of roadway conditions will significantly affect vehicular travel in the future by assisting in the intelligent optimization of traffic flows and the identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way vehicles, stopped vehicles, or/and pedestrian on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can also benefit from rapid, lower cost identification of existing and potential customers in streamlining and accelerating vehicular flow. 32 Table of Contents Increased Demand for Contactless Economy Solutions Even prior to the COVID-19 crisis, efficient, touch-free shopping experiences were becoming increasingly present. Now moving beyond simple tap-to-pay credit card functionality, we can offer businesses such as retail and quick service restaurants the ability to have customers pay-by-plate for a complete contactless experience for curbside pick-up or drive-thru transactions. Pay-by-plate functionality not only keeps customers and employees safe, but it also accelerates service time as the technology fully integrates with existing point of sale (POS) and customer loyalty systems. Necessity for On-Demand Mobile Solutions With app downloads increasing exponentially year-over-year and significant time spend on mobile phones within apps, businesses require a means to leverage the ever-present smartphones of employees. By developing a first-of-its-kind iOS and Android app that can read license plates on-device, we can provide businesses an affordable way to scale by using existing devices as license plate recognition sensors. Now businesses can efficiently manage visitors, streamline parking operations, enhance campus/event security, and even recover costly assets. Unifying Source of Roadway Intelligence with Rekor One - The Rekor One platform supports multiple community safety, intelligent roadway and revenue generation activities. Rekor One provides government agencies with a comprehensive vehicle intelligence system that supports multiple agency-specific missions. With Rekor One, governments are able to leverage their existing IP cameras and transform them into a safe and smart multi-dimensional intelligent roadway network. By interfacing with multiple databases and operating systems, Rekor One allows governmental units to observe security and privacy protocols and fractionalize costs based on relative end user value. Each participating agency receives a unique user interface and dashboard, which draws on Rekor Ones unified vehicle recognition intelligence to provide data customized to the agencys specific needs. This eliminates redundant systems and single function applications to help use public funds wisely. The platform aids in identifying licensing and registration non-compliance, uninsured motorists and unpaid parking violations. This allows agencies to create targeted intervention programs that result in increased safety as well as increased revenue recovery. Smart parking and permitting are also important capabilities that increase government efficiency and provide better citizen and visitor experience. As part of traffic management, Rekor One also supports advanced tolling and congestion pricing as well as parking and other fees. New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve a number of users who could not afford the cost or adapt to, the restrictions of conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions and municipalities that are testing ALPR systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of ALPR cameras. We also expect the availability of faster, higher accuracy, lower cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. We do not currently have the resources to develop all of these entirely new markets by ourselves, so we will need to rely on affiliations with other partners, who may or may not realize the significant benefits that we envision from these new uses. Adaptability of the Current ALPR Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy, affordability and ability to capture additional vehicle data will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. Based on published benchmarks, our software currently outperforms competitors in almost every metric. However, large users of existing ALPR technology, such as toll roads, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop or secure their own advanced vehicle recognition systems. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. 33 Table of Contents Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We believe that future legislation will allow for automated enforcement of motor vehicle regulations, including insurance requirements, to be expanded as the types of violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where automated enforcement is beneficial. In addition, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states are considering authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. Legislative implementation is a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process. However, as states expand auto enforcement, the market for our products and services should increase and broaden in the public safety market. Graphic Processing Unit (GPU) Improvements We expect our business to benefit as a result of more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognitions. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. Edge Processing Demand for actionable roadway information continues to grow in parallel with camera resolutions. Over the last several decades, cameras have evolved from 25K pixels to 8.3 million pixels and beyond, with each advancement unlocking new capabilities thereby fueling growth. Further, cellular networks are optimized for downloading data not for uploading data, and while speeds have improved over time, what amounts to large infrastructure changes has resulted in relatively small improvements to cellular upload speeds. With road-side deployments experiencing explosive growth in count and density, scalability has become an obstacle for competition in the market. All of these factors mean that scalability, latency and bandwidth concerns require edge processing which are enabled by the continued growth of the increasingly effective graphic processing units and continual improvements in efficiency of our AI algorithms. Edge processing ingests local high definition (HD) video streams and converts the raw video data to text data, thus reducing the volume of data that needs to be transferred. Edge processing allows massive scale without the bandwidth, cost, latency and dependability limitations that would be experienced with a streaming to the cloud solution. Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a leadership position. As a result, we have accelerated our business development marketing and eCommerce activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our new technology and products within the market. We anticipate that an increased presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will significantly reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree of which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. Sales Cycle As many of our products are new to market, their acceptance and integration into the intended markets is uncertain and we do not have sufficient historical experience to accurately predict revenues as a result of their implementation. 34 Table of Contents COVID 19 - The spread of a novel strain of COVID-19 around the world since the first quarter of 2020 has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets. Despite the roll-out of vaccinations, there continues to be significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies and, as such, we are unable to determine the full impact to our operations. However, we have also seen a positive impact of COVID-19 on the technology sector, in which we are competing. The pandemic has accelerated adoption of technology across businesses by several years. According to a McKinsey Global Survey of executives, their companies have accelerated the digitization of their customer and supply-chain interactions and of their internal operations by three to four years. Funding for digital initiatives has increased, creating opportunities for innovate solution providers such as Rekor. Pressure on Government Budgets COVID-19 has caused significant strain on government budgets. With less money to spend and more need for resources, government agencies need affordable, effective, and scalable solutions for revenue recovery and discovery. With subscription pricing and a roadway intelligence platform that accomplishes multiple agency missions from a single camera source, we are uniquely positioned to provide agencies force-multiplying tools when money and man-power are limited. Agencies can be better positioned to identify vehicle registration fee avoidance, enforce parking regulations and find scofflaws, aid motorists in acquiring valid insurance, and dynamically price tolls based on traffic flow. In addition, states adopting UVED programs may be able to garner significant net cash contributions to their annual budgets while reducing the number of uninsured vehicles on their roadways. American Jobs Plan (AJP) - Through the AJP, President Biden is calling on Congress to make a national investment in the transit systems in the United States. The current legislative text provides approximately $1 trillion in total spending, with approximately $550 billion in new spending over the five year period between 2022 and 2026. This includes more than $50 billion annually during this period on surface transportation. It also includes $250 million in funding, for each year 2022-2026, for transportation infrastructure finance and innovation; $50 million in funding, for each year 2022-2026, for congestion relief; more than $2 billion over the five year period for charging and fueling infrastructure; $147 million in funding, for each year 2022-2026, for highway research and development; $110 million in funding, for each year 2022-2026, for technology innovation and deployment; and $110 million in funding, for each year 2022-2026, for intelligent transportation systems. The Senate has passed this legislation and it is now awaiting action in the House. We believe that the ability of our Rekor One platform to perform multiple missions simultaneously and cost effectively, including real time system wide traffic monitoring, revenue collection and delivery of safety, emissions and maintenance information, positions the Company well to emerge as a technology leader in this proposed transformation of the transportation infrastructure nationwide. Components of Operating Results Revenues We derive our revenues substantially from license and subscription fees for software and related products and services. A portion of the subscription fees are generated through our eCommerce website rather than through in-person sales. In addition, we derive revenues in connection with certain citation and collection services in connection with automated services to support insurance compliance, traffic safety and parking enforcement. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products and services. If the consideration promised in the contract includes a variable amount, for example maintenance fees, we include an estimate of the amount we expect to receive for the total transaction price, if it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. 35 Table of Contents Costs of Revenues Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, sub-consultant services, and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when incurred. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing and research and development. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses also include depreciation, amortization and impairment of assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include office leases, professional fees and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We intend to make significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to grow revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our customer base. With the release of our Partners Program we expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in the future. Research and Development Research and development expenses consists of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. We expect our research and development expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our AI software. However, we expect our research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, gains or losses on the sale of fixed assets, and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and note receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. 36 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions A comprehensive discussion of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions is included in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. New Accounting Pronouncement See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 1 of this quarterly report for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars are presented below. The results below and the analysis of operation is solely related to continuing operations and do not include results of discontinued operations from TeamGlobal, AOC Key Solutions and Firestorm. Three Months ended June 30, Six Months ended June 30, (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 2021 2020 Revenue $ 4,274 $ 2,677 $ 8,491 $ 4,273 Cost of revenue 1,432 1,276 3,394 1,770 Gross profit 2,842 1,401 5,097 2,503 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 5,024 2,937 10,427 5,728 Selling and marketing expenses 984 424 1,920 795 Research and development expenses 1,519 819 2,741 1,362 Operating expenses 7,527 4,180 15,088 7,885 Loss from operations (4,685 ) (2,779 ) (9,991 ) (5,382 ) Other income (expense): Loss on extinguishment of debt - (200 ) - (200 ) Interest expense (18 ) (1,086 ) (50 ) (2,250 ) Gain on the sale of business - 3,636 - 3,636 Other income 19 17 34 16 Total other income (expense) 1 2,367 (16 ) 1,202 Loss before income taxes (4,684 ) (412 ) (10,007 ) (4,180 ) Income tax provision (3 ) (7 ) (7 ) (13 ) Equity in loss of investee (74 ) - (150 ) - Net loss from continuing operations (4,761 ) (419 ) (10,164 ) (4,193 ) Net loss from discontinued operations (1 ) (199 ) (4 ) (213 ) Net loss (4,762 ) (618 ) (10,168 ) (4,406 ) Comprehensive loss: Net loss from continuing operations (4,761 ) (419 ) (10,164 ) (4,193 ) Change in unrealized gain on short-term investments 1 - 4 Total comprehensive loss from continuing operations (4,760 ) (419 ) (10,160 ) (4,193 ) Total comprehensive loss $ (4,761 ) $ (618 ) $ (10,164 ) $ (4,406 ) 37 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three and Six Months ended June 30, 2021 and the Three and Six Months ended June 30, 2020 Total Revenue Three Months ended June 30, Change Six Months ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % 2021 2020 $ % Revenue $ 4,274 $ 2,677 $ 1,597 60 % $ 8,491 $ 4,273 $ 4,218 99 % The increase in revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, was a result of additional products and programs we offered, increases in our direct sales and Partners Program sales. In 2021, we initiated services for Oklahomas UVED Program which has generated revenue of $387,000 and $635,000 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2021. We also had significant growth in our eCommerce revenue which is defined as revenue recognized through our eCommerce platform as well as our solutions in the tolling industry. For the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, we recognized revenues of $405,000 and $197,000, respectively, in eCommerce revenue. For the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, we recognized revenues of $848,000 and $373,000, respectively, in eCommerce revenue. Additionally, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2021, we had agreements with significant customers in which the revenue recognition was bifurcated into point in time revenue recognition related to the sale of hardware and perpetual licenses, as well as recurring revenue recognition related to the software and maintenance fees. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months ended June 30, Change Six Months ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ or % Points % 2021 2020 $ or % Points % Cost of revenue $ 1,432 $ 1,276 $ 156 12 % $ 3,394 $ 1,770 $ 1,624 92 % Gross profit 2,842 1,401 1,441 103 % 5,097 2,503 2,594 104 % Gross margin 66 % 52 % 14 % 27 % 60 % 59 % 1 % 2 % For the three and six months ended June 30, 2021, the gross margin increased to 66% and 60%, respectively, which was attributable to the sale of perpetual licenses in the three months ended June 30, 2021. The margin on the sale of perpetual licenses is typically higher than our hardware products due to the reduced material and labor hours associated with the issuance of a license. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 the gross margin included building infrastructure in connection with large software and hardware contracts which caused a lower margin. Operating Expenses Three Months ended June 30, Change Six Months ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % 2021 2020 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 5,024 $ 2,937 $ 2,087 71 % $ 10,427 $ 5,728 $ 4,699 82 % Selling and marketing expenses 984 424 560 132 % 1,920 795 1,125 142 % Research and development expenses 1,519 819 700 85 % 2,741 1,362 1,379 101 % Operating expenses $ 7,527 $ 4,180 $ 3,347 80 % $ 15,088 $ 7,885 $ 7,203 91 % General and Administrative Expenses The majority of the increase to general and administrative expenses is attributable to increased headcount and equity award expenses. Additionally, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, we saw an increase in professional fees mainly associated with our merger and acquisition initiatives. 38 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Expenses The increase in selling and marketing expenses during the year is attributable mainly to increased marketing efforts to promote our products and services including digital marketing and other sales efforts. In connection with these efforts there was an increase in staffing to support the Companys growth plan. Research and Development Expense The overall increase in research and development expenses is primarily attributable to the development of new products and additional software capabilities, as a result of our increased focus on technology offerings. The increase in research and development expenses is mainly attributable to an increase in headcount and hours associated with research and development activities. Other Expense Three Months ended June 30, Change Six Months ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % 2021 2020 $ % Other income (expense): Loss on extinguishment of debt $ - $ (200 ) $ 200 -100 % $ - $ (200 ) $ 200 -100 % Interest expense (18 ) (1,086 ) $ 1,068 98 % (50 ) (2,250 ) 2,200 98 % Gain on the sale of business - 3,636 (3,636 ) -100 % - 3,636 (3,636 ) -100 % Other income 19 17 2 12 % 34 16 18 113 % Total other income (expense) $ 1 $ 2,367 $ (2,366 ) -100 % $ (16 ) $ 1,202 $ (1,218 ) -101 % The decrease in interest expense and debt extinguishment costs for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 is due to the retirement of the 2019 Promissory notes in 2020. Additionally, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, we sold our non-core businesses which resulted in a gain of $3,636,000. Non-GAAP Measures: EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, (v) losses associated with equity method investments, (vi) merger and acquisition transaction costs and (vii) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. 39 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, Six Months ended June 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Total comprehensive loss from continuing operations $ (4,760 ) $ (419 ) $ (10,160 ) $ (4,193 ) Income taxes 3 7 7 13 Interest 18 1,086 50 2,250 Depreciation and amortization 625 466 1,239 889 EBITDA $ (4,114 ) $ 1,140 $ (8,864 ) $ (1,041 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt $ - $ 200 $ - $ 200 Share-based compensation 1,125 166 1,906 337 Gain on sale of business - (3,636 ) - (3,636 ) Loss due to change in value of equity investments 74 - 150 - One-time consulting fees - - 776 - Adjusted EBITDA $ (2,915 ) $ (2,130 ) $ (6,032 ) $ (4,140 ) Lease Obligations At June 30, 2021, we leased building space at the following locations in the U.S.: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Linthicum, Maryland Storage facility for inventory related to our technology hardware Orlando, Florida Florida implementation office In the first quarter of 2021, we entered into a new lease agreement for our new headquarters. The lease commencement agreement and date are expected to occur in the third quarter of 2021. As we do not have access to the building until the lease commencement agreement is executed, we have not recognized the lease as of June 30, 2021. We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We expect to improve, replace and increase facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our planned operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth the components of our cash flows for the period included (dollars in thousands): Six Months ended June 30, 2021 2020 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities - continuing operations $ (6,843 ) $ (6,234 ) $ (609 ) -10 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities - continuing operations (14,713 ) 5,253 (19,966 ) -380 % Net cash provided by financing activities - continuing operations 70,439 1,264 69,175 5473% Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents - continuing operations $ 48,883 $ 283 $ 48,600 17173 % Net cash used in operating activities continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2021 had a net decrease of $609,000, which was attributable to the increase in the loss from continuing operations of $5,971,000. This amount was partially offset by an increase to share-based compensation expense, a non-cash adjustment, which increased $1,569,000 from $1,906,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2021 compared to $337,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2020. This increase is due to the number of shares that were issued as well as the increase in our stock price. Additionally, for the six months ended June 30, 2020, there was a $3,636,000 gain on the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal. The gain on the sale is shown as a decrease in cash flow from operations and an increase in cash flow from investing activities to reflect the nature of the transactions. The net increase in net cash used in investment activities continuing operations of $19,966,000 was primarily due to an increase in short-term investments of $12,995,000 which was invested in U.S. Treasury Bills that have maturity dates over three months but less than a year and the $1,000,000 SAFE investment in Roker. During the six months ended June 30, 2020, the cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was primarily due to the cash proceeds of the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal. 40 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities continuing operations for the six months ended June 30, 2021 increased $69,175,000 from the prior six month period ended June 30, 2020. In the current year, through our Public Offering, we received net proceeds, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us, of $70,125,000. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, the sale of our subsidiaries and the sale of equity. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations of $69,032,000, $12,998,000 of short-term investments and working capital of $79,891,000, as compared to cash and cash equivalents of $20,595,000 and working capital of $18,324,000 as of December 31, 2020. Backlog As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $15,174,000 of contracts that were closed prior to June 30, 2021 but have a contractual period beyond June 30, 2021. These contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, in which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately 34% of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following four years. On occasion our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the contract for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. Public Offering On February 9, 2021, we issued and sold 6,126,939 shares of our common stock (which included 799,166 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the exercise of an overallotment option) (the Public Offering). The net proceeds to us, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by the us, were approximately $70,125,000. As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any material commitments for capital expenditures. I TEM 3. QUANTITAIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK As a smaller reporting company as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, Rekor is not required to provide information required by this Item 3. I TEM 4.