MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve substantial risks and uncertainties including particularly statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, prospective products and services, timing and likelihood of success, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and future results of current and anticipated products and services. These statements involve uncertainties, such as known and unknown risks, and are dependent on other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements we express or imply. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions described under the sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and our Quarterly Reports for the quarters ended March 31, 2020 and June 30, 2020, entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Specific factors that might cause actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to: significant risks, uncertainties and other considerations discussed in this report; operating risks, including supply chain, equipment or system failures, cyber and other malicious attacks and other events that could affect the amounts and timing of revenues and expenses; reputational risks affecting customer confidence or willingness to do business with us; financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts; our ability to successfully identify, integrate and complete acquisitions and dispositions; our ability to access the public markets for debt or equity capital quickly; political, legal, regulatory, governmental, administrative and economic conditions and developments in the United States (U.S.), and other countries in which we operate and, in particular, the impact of recent and future federal, state and local regulatory proceedings and changes, including legislative and regulatory initiatives associated with our products; current and future litigation; competition from other companies with an established position in the market, we enter or who are seeking to enter markets we already serve; our failure to successfully develop products using our technology that are accepted by the markets we serve or tend to serve or the development of new technologies that change the nature of our business or provide our customers with products or services superior to or less expensive than ours; and the inability of our strategic plans and goals to expand our geographic markets, customer base and product and service offerings. risks associated with pandemics and other global health emergencies, such as the spread of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) around the world since the first quarter of 2020, which has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets and has created significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies. risks associated with cyberattacks on international, national, local and Company information infrastructure by rogue businesses or criminal elements or by agents of governments engaged in asymmetric disruptions for competitive economic or military reasons. 32 Investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein. Other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change in the future. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 (the 2019 Annual Report), our Quarterly Reports for the quarters ended March 31, 2020 and June 30, 2020, and any updates contained herein as well as those set forth in our reports and other filings made with the SEC. General Overview We are a leader in the field of artificial intelligence ("AI") enabled vehicle identification and intelligent roadway management systems. In development for over six years using machine learning algorithms, our core software enables the creation of more powerful and capable vehicle recognition systems that can be deployed at a fraction of the cost of traditional legacy systems. The software provides a wider field of view, greater light sensitivity and recognitions at faster speeds and with higher accuracy rates. It also includes the ability to identify the color, make and type of a vehicle and its direction of travel. These capabilities are particularly useful to governmental entities and businesses in solving a wide variety of real-world vehicle related operational challenges. In addition, the reduction in cost, increased number and improved performance of internet protocol connected cameras has enabled significant new uses for vehicle recognition technology that were not previously available or cost effective. We currently provide products and services for governmental organizations, for large and small businesses and for individuals throughout the world. Customers currently use our products or services in over 70 countries, in applications that include public safety, security, customer experience, transportation, parking, operational efficiencies and logistics. Previously, we provided professional services and staffing solutions to the government contracting and the aerospace and aviation industries through our Professional Services Segment. The Professional Services Segment included our wholly owned subsidiaries AOC Key Solutions Inc. (AOC Key Solutions).;Global Technical Services, Inc. (GTS or TeamGlobal), Firestorm Solutions, LLC (Firestorm Solutions) and Firestorm Franchising, LLC (Firestorm Franchising and, together with Firestorm Solutions, Firestorm). As part of the development of a new line of products for the public safety and security markets, we determined that our resources were best concentrated on vehicle recognition products and services and began to consider dispositions in our Professional Services Segment. Concurrently, we reorganized and retooled our product development, business development and administrative resources to better serve our Technology Segment. On April 2, 2020, we sold AOC Key Solutions. As of June 29, 2020, we sold Team Global and determined that all the remaining operations that comprised our Professional Services Segment met the criteria to be presented as discontinued. Our continuing operations are conducted by our wholly owned subsidiary, Rekor Recognition Systems, Inc. (Rekor Recognition). In connection with the development of several new public safety products, we determined to acquire substantially all the assets of OpenALPR Technology, Inc. This acquisition (the OpenALPR Technology Acquisition), completed in March 2019, transferred vehicle recognition software and associated licenses and proprietary rights to OpenALPR Software Solutions, LLC (OpenALPR), a new wholly owned subsidiary of Rekor Recognition. OpenALPRs vehicle recognition platform, already operating on more than 6,200 cameras that cover over 8,600 lanes of roadway in 56 countries worldwide, has laid the groundwork for expansion, enabling multiple deployment mechanisms for our products and services. Our core vehicle recognition software currently has the capability to analyze multi-spectral images and video streams produced by nearly any Internet Protocol security camera and concurrently extract license plate data by state from more than 85 countries, in addition to the vehicles make, color, type and direction of travel. When combined with speed optimized code, parallel processing capability and best-in-class accessories, such as cameras and communications modules, the software captures license plate data and vehicle characteristics at extremely high vehicle speeds with a high degree of accuracy, even in unusually difficult conditions, such as low lighting, poor weather, extreme camera viewing angles, and obstructions. Since the OpenALPR Technology Acquisition, we have grown our vehicle recognition product and service lines into a much broader range of customer segments, starting with public safety and expanding into parking operations, auto wash and service, and quick service restaurants and retail. We shifted from a perpetual licensing model to a subscription-based model, rebranded OpenALPR to highlight software products such as Watchman and CarCheck and released several packaged hardware and software solutions with preloaded versions of each of these vehicle recognition engines. We have also launched a robust eCommerce portal on the OpenALPR.com site, enabling customers to conveniently purchase Watchman and CarCheck vehicle recognition solutions with just a credit card and a click. This allows owners to immediately enhance their business operations while reducing the cost of service for Rekor. Additional services will be added in the future. By the end of 2020, we expect to have a portfolio of (16 products), including 9 unique products, each with several sub-lines. Completion of this complete set of product offerings allows us to offer full-scale software and hardware vehicle recognition solutions and services for public agencies and commercial or industrial businesses of nearly any size, as well as serve campus and residential settings. 33 Additionally, the recent launch of our Rekor One platform will provide government agencies with a comprehensive vehicle intelligence system that supports multiple agency-specific missions and addresses three major governmental concern: Infrastructure, Safety, and Revenue. By interfacing with multiple databases and operating systems, Rekor One will allow governmental units to observe security and privacy protocols and fractionalize costs based on relative end-user value. With the Rekor One platform, an agency will be able to integrate their existing IP and traffic cameras into a smart multi-dimensional roadway network, providing intelligence that supports both long range planning and quicker responses to dangerous situations. With user dashboards customized per department, each agency can access the information they need while maintaining full compliance with their individual security and privacy requirements. This single interconnected platform can eliminate the need for redundant systems and single-function equipment. Rekor Ones proprietary technology has six patents pending, demonstrating innovation in vehicle recognition and its applications for government agencies. The patents cover areas that include privacy enhancements, the intelligent use of data, smarter image processing, advanced vehicle identification techniques, and the improved aesthetics of roadside equipment. Prior to the development of our vehicle identification software, highly accurate results were not available using a typical Internet Protocol camera. We believe that Rekors ability to generate results with less expensive hardware is changing the dynamics of the existing public safety market, enabling the creation of increasingly robust networks with cameras at more locations. In addition, we expect our improvements in cost and accuracy to create competitive advantages in tolling systems and logistics operations that currently rely on complex radio frequency identification (RFID) systems. We also expect our lower costs, superior distance and field of view capabilities, along with the ability to capture additional vehicle information, such as direction, color, make and type of vehicle, to open opportunities in other market segments. These opportunities include parking operations, school safety and retail customer loyalty programs and, particularly, smart cities and smart roadways. Smart roadway systems, sometimes referred to as smart transport or intelligent transport systems (ITS), inclusive of parking management and guidance, passenger information and traffic management systems, can optimize the movement of vehicles to make travel safer and more efficient. These technologies are expected to enable users to be more coordinated, better informed, and make smarter use of transport networks. Rekors vision is to enable AI Driven Decisions by enhancing the capabilities in commercial and government sectors with actionable, real-time insights. We deliver these insights through an expanding software portfolio that not only addresses the challenges our customers are currently facing but empowers them to effectively deal with their evolving needs. Recent Developments The most significant developments in our company and business since January 1, 2020 are described below: On November 9, 2020, we announced that the State of Oklahoma will integrate our Rekor One platform across the state to provide vehicle information associated with uninsured motorists as part of the state's Uninsured Vehicle Enforcement Diversion Program (UVED Program), which is operated by the Oklahoma District Attorneys Council. On October 22, 2020, we announced that the Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, District Attorneys Office has chosen us to provide vehicle recognition services to support five different law enforcement jurisdictions. The engagement, which totals $525,000 over five years, includes 30 new edge cameras and one in-vehicle Automatic License Plate Recognition (ALPR) system. On October 12, 2020, we announced the launch of Rekor One, a new platform that will serve as a unifying source of roadway intelligence for government agencies across cities, counties and states. The platform will support multiple community safety, intelligent roadway and revenue generation activities. On October 6, 2020, we launched our redesigned eCommerce platform, which will allow our customers to purchase our products and services online. On September 9, 2020, we announced Rekor Go, a mobile application that will bring the power of accurate Automatic License Plate Recognition (APLR) to commercial users in a broad array of markets later this fall. On August 28, 2020, we increased the maximum aggregate offering price through our At-the-Market Agreement (Sales Agreement) up to $40,000,000. On September 21, 2020, the Company elected to voluntarily terminate the Sales Agreement after raising $34,154,000 in aggregate gross proceeds (which included $7,882,000 from prior sales under the Sales Agreement). On August 6, 2020, we granted to Verra Mobility a non-exclusive right to resell and distribute our products to Verra Mobility customers and licensed certain software to Verra Mobility to be incorporated into Verra Mobility Products. On July 23, 2020, James K. McCarthy, Chairman of the Board of Directors notified our Board of Directors (the Board) of his intention to retire from our Board, effective immediately. Mr. McCarthy did not advise us of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices. Effective upon Mr. McCarthys resignation as a director, the size of the Board was reduced from eight to seven, and Mr. Robert Berman was named the Executive Chairman of the Board. 34 In June 2020, we entered a five-year non-exclusive licensing agreement with Mesa Technologies, LLC (Mesa), for the use of our intellectual property as part of a school bus stop arm system (SBSA). Mesa has installed over 3,000 photo enforcement systems world-wide. We expect the agreement to increase our market penetration in the state, local government, and international markets. In June 2020, certain 2019 Lenders agreed to a redemption of approximately 77% of the remaining principal balance of the 2019 Promissory Notes as of June 30, 2020. The settlement was completed on July 15, 2020, with 77% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Promissory Notes, including accreted interest plus certain fees payable pursuant to the terms of the 2019 Promissory Notes, redeemed in exchange for common stock at a rate of $4 per share. The 2019 Lenders also agreed that the maturity of the 2019 Promissory Notes will be extended until December 31, 2021. On September 16, 2020, the Company issued a cash payment to complete the retirement of the remaining aggregate principal balance of 2019 Notes. In June 2020, we completed the sale of TeamGlobal to certain members of TeamGlobal's management team for approximately $4M in cash and a secured note. In June 2020, we launched a standalone Company with Cygnet Infotech, a premier product engineering and application development services firm along with affiliates of Cygnet, named Roker Inc. ("Roker"). Roker will be designed to automate parking enforcement and enable higher revenue recovery for both public safety institutions and private businesses alike. We and Cygnet are each contributing our respective technology stacks in exchange for equity in Roker. In the third quarter of 2020, we made an initial investment of $75,000 for 50% of the venture. The spread of COVID-19 around the world since the first half of 2020 has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets. There continues to be significant uncertainty about the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies and, as such, we are unable to determine at this time the full impact it will have impact to our operations. In response to COVID-19, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law. The CARES Act, among other things, provides cash payments to certain individuals and has various programs for businesses. In particular, it includes the Payroll Protection Program which provides forgivable loans to qualified small businesses, primarily to allow these businesses to continue to pay their employees. The Company received $874,000 as a result of the Payroll Protection Program. On April 2, 2020, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with, AOC Key Solutions, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, and PurpleReign, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company owned by the members of AOC Key Solutions management, pursuant to which we agreed to sell AOC Key Solutions for $4 million. In the first quarter of 2020, Digifort, a global leader in video surveillance and monitoring, headquartered in Brazil with more than 28,000 customers in 130 countries, became a premier reseller for Watchman software in Brazil, Latin America, the Pacific Rim and the Middle East. In addition, we were selected by Brite Computers ("Brite"), LiveView Technologies, ("LiveView"), and Alliance Technology Group ("Alliance") to provide our vehicle recognition systems to their existing customer bases. Brite is leader in public safety systems integration and will use us as their sole ALPR solution to their extensive customer base comprised of law enforcement and state and local governments. LiveView is a leader in remote security solutions, which will provide our vehicle recognition systems for deployment within its full security platform. Alliance will offer our vehicle recognition solutions to its customer base both as a standalone solution and as part of an integrated video surveillance system. 35 In March 2020, we increased our authorized shares of common stock from 30,000,000 to 100,000,000. The increase in authorized shares was done in order to permit us to raise capital or issue our common stock for other business purposes. In February 2020, the City of Lauderhill, Florida, selected our Rekor Edge vehicle recognition cameras and Watchman software for use in its public safety program. As a result, on March 5, 2020 we signed an agreement with the City of Lauderhill for $1.79 million and contract to provide services for a five-year term. In February 2020, SecurePark Technologies, a leading software-as-a-service (SaaS) based parking solutions company, selected our iP360 Parking and Permit Management software as a simple, reliable, and affordable solution for their global clients. In January 2020, the Mt. Juliet Police Department in Tennessee selected Rekor to roll out the communitys Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) program which the department is terming, Guardian Shield. The Guardian Shield program was initiated to enhance the communitys safety by providing an additional tool to law enforcement. Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties Different trends, factors and uncertainties, including market cycles, may impact our operations and financial conditions, including many that are unforeseeable. However, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by trends, factors and uncertainties discussed in our 2019 Annual Report under Part II - Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in addition to the information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The opportunities, trends, and uncertainties that we are most focused on at the current time are: AI for the Roadway We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of roadway condition will significantly affect vehicular travel in the future by assisting in the intelligent optimization of traffic flows and the identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way, stopped vehicle, pedestrian on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can benefit from the rapid identification of existing and potential customers and streamlining vehicular flow. Graphic Processing Unit (GPU) Improvements We expect our business to benefit as a result of more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognitions. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. Adaptability of the Current ALPR Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy and affordability will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. Based on published benchmarks, our software currently outperforms competitors in almost every metric. However, large users of existing ALPR Technology, such as toll roads, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop or secure their own advanced vehicle recognition systems. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve a number of users who could not afford the cost or adapt to, the restrictions of conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions and municipalities that are testing ALPR systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of ALPR cameras. We also expect the availability of faster, higher accuracy, lower cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. We do not currently have the resources to develop all of these entirely new markets by ourselves, so we will need to rely on affiliations with other partners, who may or may not realize the significant benefits that we envision from these new uses. 36 Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We believe that future legislation will allow for automated enforcement of motor vehicle regulations to be expanded as the types of violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where automated enforcement is beneficial. For example, there are now 17 states that allow for the automatic enforcement of violations by vehicles that pass a school bus displaying its flashing red lights and a stop sign. In addition, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states are considering authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. Legislative implementation is a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process. However, as states expand auto enforcement, the market for our products and services should increase and broaden in the public safety market Increasing Smart City Market Nokia has approved the use of our OpenALPR software for its smart city offerings. In the smart citys market, real-time vehicle recognition technologies are widely used for traffic management and public safety. As a result, we expect to benefit from the growth of this market. Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a leadership position. As a result, we have accelerated our business development and marketing activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our new technology and products within the market. We anticipate that an increased presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will significantly reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree of which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. Sales Cycle As many of our products are new to market, their acceptance and integration into the intended markets is uncertain and we do not have sufficient historical experience to accurately predict revenues as a result of their implementation. COVID 19 - The spread of a novel strain of COVID-19 around the world since the first quarter of 2020 has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets. There is significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies and, as such, we are unable to determine the full impact to our operations. Pressure on Government Budgets In addition to the COVID-19 crisis crippling businesses revenues, it has caused significant strain on government budgets. With less money to spend and more need for resources, government agencies need affordable, effective, and scalable solutions for revenue recovery and discovery. With subscription pricing and a roadway intelligence platform that accomplishes multiple agency missions from a single camera source, we are uniquely positioned to provide agencies force-multiplying tools when money and man-power are limited. Agencies can be better positioned to identify vehicle registration fee avoidance, enforce parking and find scofflaws, aid motorists in acquiring valid insurance, and dynamically price tolls based on traffic flow. Increased Demand for Contactless Economy Solutions Even prior to the COVID-19 crisis, efficient, touch-free shopping experiences were becoming increasingly present. Now moving beyond simple tap-to-pay credit card functionality, we can offer businesses such as retail and quick service restaurants the ability to have customers pay-by-plate for a complete contactless experience for curbside pick-up or drive-thru transactions. Pay-by-plate functionality not only keeps customers and employees safe, it accelerates service time as the technology fully integrates with existing POS and customer loyalty systems. Necessity for On-Demand Mobile Solutions With app downloads increasing exponentially year-over-year and over 90% of mobile phone time spent within apps, businesses require a means to leverage the ever-present smartphones of employees. By developing a first-of-its-kind iOS and Android app that can read license plates on-device, we can provide businesses an affordable way to scale by utilizing existing devices as license plate recognition sensors. Now businesses can efficiently manage visitors, streamline parking operations, enhance campus/event security, and even recover costly assets. We believe that recent developments in computing capabilities, such as GPU advances, and new techniques of analysis, sometimes referred to broadly as AI, have broadened the market for vehicle recognition technology and created new opportunities in existing markets. With our new line of products and services, we are working to actively exploit these opportunities. Other than as discussed above and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we are not aware of any trends, events or uncertainties that are likely to have a material effect on our financial condition. Revenues We generate our revenues substantially from licensing and subscription revenues for software and related products and services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products and services. If the consideration promised in the contract includes a variable amount, for example maintenance fees, we include an estimate of the amount we expect to receive in the total transaction price, if it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. 37 We determine the amount of revenue to be recognized through application of the following steps: Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer Identification of the performance obligations in the contract Determination of the transaction price Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract Recognition of revenue when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied The subscription revenues from perpetual software licenses and related products consist of fees that give customers a permanent license to use of software and receive related support and updates during the term of the arrangement. Revenue from our perpetual software licenses is recognized up-front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer. During the second quarter of 2019, we changed our primary method of selling software from perpetual software licenses, with associated maintenance services, to service subscriptions that give customers access to the use of the current version of the service for a period limited duration. This change is expected to impact our revenue in the short term as we begin to recognize the bulk of our revenue from subscriptions ratably over the contract period rather than at a point in time when the customer takes possession of the license. The amount of contract revenue received over the long term is not expected to decline, however. Our subscription services arrangements are non-cancelable and do not contain refund-type provisions, although the change to service subscriptions result in an increase in credit risk. Costs of Revenues Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of that portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, sub-consultant services, and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude that portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when incurred. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing and research and development. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses also include depreciation, amortization and impairment of assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include travel and entertainment, professional fees and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We intend to make significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to grow revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our customer base. With the release of our Partners Program we expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in the future. 38 Research and Development Research and development expenses consists of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. We expect our research and development expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our AI software. However, we expect our research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) net consists primarily of interest expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions A comprehensive discussion of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions is included in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. New Accounting Pronouncement See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 1 of this quarterly report for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 39 Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars and as a percentage of total revenues are presented below. The results below and the analysis of operation is solely related to continuing operations and do not include results of operations from TeamGlobal, AOC Key Solutions and Firestorm. Three Months ended September 30, Nine Months ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenue $ 2,126 $ 1,536 $ 6,399 $ 3,962 Cost of revenue 984 390 2,753 1,152 Gross profit 1,142 1,146 3,646 2,810 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 3,168 2,600 8,896 6,259 Selling and marketing expenses 560 587 1,356 1,081 Research and development expenses 781 450 2,143 757 Operating expenses 4,509 3,637 12,395 8,097 Loss from operations (3,367 ) (2,491 ) (8,749 ) (5,287 ) Other income (expense): Loss on extinguishment of debt (3,081 ) - (3,281 ) (1,113 ) Interest expense (218 ) (1,182 ) (2,468 ) (2,724 ) Other income 6 157 27 123 Gain on sale of business - - 3,631 - Total other expense (3,293 ) (1,025 ) (2,091 ) (3,714 ) Loss before income taxes (6,660 ) (3,516 ) (10,840 ) (9,001 ) Income tax provision (7 ) (12 ) (20 ) (35 ) Net loss from continuing operations $ (6,667 ) $ (3,528 ) $ (10,860 ) $ (9,036 ) Comparison of the Three and Nine Months ended September 30, 2020 and the Three and Nine Months ended September 30, 2019 Restructuring As part of our shift in strategic direction since 2019, we are focusing on our Technology Segment and have disposed of or discontinued operations in the subsidiaries in our Professional Services Segment. In April 2020, we completed the Sale of AOC Key Solutions and in June 2020, we completed the sale of TeamGlobal. As part of evaluating the future of Firestorm, management decided to sell Secure Education and transfer the BC Management line of business to its founder in the second quarter of 2019. In addition, management determined to discontinue the operation of Firestorm Franchising, LLC, a division of Firestorm, due to non-performance by franchisees. The Company has also commenced an action for rescission of the original purchase of Firestorm. As a result. we have completed the final steps our announced change in strategic direction to sell lower margin assets and focus on our core technology segment. Beginning in 2020, all of the subsidiaries that were previously presented as part of Professional Services operations are classified as discontinued operations and not presented as part of continuing operations. Total Revenue Three Months ended September 30, Change Nine Months ended September 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Revenue $ 2,126 $ 1,536 $ 590 38 % $ 6,399 $ 3,962 $ 2,437 62 % 40 The increase in revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, was a result of additional products the Company offered during the period and the implementation of a large software and hardware contract in Florida which generated up front revenues from building infrastructure. Additionally, part of the growth in revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was attributable to revenues earned through our eCommerce platform which organically increased, $68,000 or 41%, to $235,000 from $167,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to the expanded technology offerings and large contracts stated above, as well as the fact that revenue attributable to the acquisition of OpenALPR assets has only been included in operations since March 2019. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, revenue attributable to OpenALPR assets was recognized for the full nine month period compared to only a six and half a month period in the corresponding period in 2019. Additionally, part of the growth in revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was attributable to revenues earned through our eCommerce platform which organically increased, $341,000 or 122%, to $621,000 from $280,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months ended September 30, Change Nine Months ended September 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ or % Points % 2020 2019 $ or % Points % Cost of revenue $ 984 $ 390 $ 594 152 % $ 2,753 $ 1,152 $ 1,601 139 % Gross profit 1,142 1,146 (4 ) 0 % 3,646 2,810 836 30 % Gross margin 54 % 75 % -21 % -28 % 57 % 71 % -14 % -20 % For the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, the decrease in gross profit was primarily attributable to building infrastructure in connection with large software and hardware contracts for the corresponding period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the increase in gross profit was primarily attributable to the increase in revenue for the corresponding period. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 the gross margin decreased to 54% and 57%, respectively, which was primarily attributable to building infrastructure in connection with large software and hardware contracts. These contracts included construction and assembly of fixtures for our vehicle recognition cameras and the infrastructure necessary to support database and communications operations on a shared basis with other municipalities. As this early stage, the cost of building the network is higher and the initial margins for such projects are consequently lower than expected than for future operations that will be able to use the same infrastructure. Operating Expenses Three Months ended September 30, Change Nine Months ended September 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 3,168 $ 2,600 $ 568 22 % $ 8,896 $ 6,259 $ 2,637 42 % Selling and marketing expenses 560 587 (27 ) -5 % 1,356 1,081 275 25 % Research and development expenses 781 450 331 74 % 2,143 757 1,386 183 % Operating expenses $ 4,509 $ 3,637 $ 872 24 % $ 12,395 $ 8,097 $ 4,298 53 % General and Administrative Expenses The majority of the increase to general and administrative expenses is attributable to the increased staffing. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we brought on additional officers and executives of the Company to support our growth plan and build our corporate structure. 41 Selling and Marketing Expenses The increase in the selling and marketing expenses during the year is attributable mainly to the increased marketing efforts to promote our products and services including digital marketing and other sales efforts. In connection with these efforts there was an increase in staffing to support the Companys growth plan. Research and Development Expense The overall increase in research and development expenses is primarily attributable to the strategic shift to develop new products and additional software capabilities, as a result of our increased focus on our technology offerings. This shift took place at the end of the first quarter of 2019. The increase in our research and development expenses is mainly attributable to an increase in headcount and hours associated with the research and development activities. Other Expense Three Months ended September 30, Change Nine Months ended September 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Other income (expense): Loss on extinguishment of debt $ (3,081 ) $ - $ (3,081 ) -100 % $ (3,281 ) $ (1,113 ) $ (2,168 ) -195 % Interest expense (218 ) (1,182 ) 964 82 % (2,468 ) (2,724 ) 256 9 % Other income 6 157 (151 ) -96 % 27 123 (96 ) -78 % Gain on sale of business - - - - 3,631 - 3,631 100 % Total other expense $ (3,293 ) $ (1,025 ) $ (2,268 ) -221 % $ (2,091 ) $ (3,714 ) $ 1,623 44 % The decrease in interest expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 is due to the staged retirement of the 2019 Promissory notes in 2020. The loss on the extinguishment of debt in for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, was related to the fees associated with the early extinguishment of the principal balance of our 2019 Promissory Notes. During 2019, we incurred costs of $1,113,000 associated with the extinguishment of debt. In connection with the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal, we recognized a gain on the sale of business of $3,631,000 during the nine months ended September 30, 2020. Non-GAAP Measures: EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, and (v) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. 42 The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Nine Months ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Net loss $ (6,667 ) $ (3,528 ) $ (10,860 ) $ (9,036 ) Income taxes 7 12 20 35 Interest 218 1,182 2,468 2,724 Depreciation and amortization 497 418 1,386 957 EBITDA $ (5,945 ) $ (1,916 ) $ (6,986 ) $ (5,320 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt $ 3,081 $ - $ 3,281 $ 1,113 Share-based compensation 202 76 539 314 Gain on sale of business - - (3,631 ) - Loss on sale of Secure Education - 3 - 3 Adjusted EBITDA $ (2,662 ) $ (1,837 ) $ (6,797 ) $ (3,890 ) Lease Obligations As of September 30, 2020, we leased building space at the following locations in the U.S.: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Linthicum, Maryland Storage facility for inventory related to our technology hardware We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We may improve, replace or reduce facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our operations and ability to raise capital resources may be affected by the recent and ongoing outbreak of COVID-19 which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020. The ultimate disruption which may be caused by the outbreak is uncertain; however, it may result in a material adverse impact on our balance sheet, operations and cash flows. On May 26, 2020 and June 3, 2020, we entered into two loan agreements with Newtek Small Business Finance, LLC, which provided loans in the principal amount of $221,000 (the Rekor PPP Loan) and $653,000 (the Rekor Recognition PPP Loan), respectively, pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program under the CARES Act. Each note has a two-year term and bears interest at a rate of 1.0% per annum. Monthly principal and interest payments are deferred for six months after the date of disbursement. The Paycheck Protection Program provides that the notes may be partially or wholly forgiven if the funds are used for certain qualifying expenses as described in the CARES Act. We intend to use the entire note amount for qualifying expenses and to apply for forgiveness of the loan in accordance with the terms of the CARES Act. 43 2019 Promissory Notes On March 12, 2019, we issued the 2019 Promissory Notes and the March 2019 Warrants to investors, including OpenALPR Technology, Inc. (the 2019 Lenders) . The loan was due and payable on March 11, 2021. In March 2020, we received an extension of the maturity date of the loan until June 12, 2021. In June 2020, we received an extension of the maturity date of the loan until December 31, 2021. The loan bore interest at 16% per annum, of which at least 10% per annum was required to be paid in cash. The full remaining portion of all interest, if any, accrued and was to be paid-in-kind. The notes also required a premium, if paid before the maturity date, a $1,000,000 exit fee due at maturity, and compliance with affirmative, negative and financial covenants. On June 30, 2020, we entered into the Exchange Agreements with certain holders of our 2019 Promissory Notes. Under the Exchange Agreements, approximately $17,398,000 of the 2019 Promissory Notes was redeemed in exchange for 4,349,497 shares of our common stock, at a rate of $4 per share (the Note Exchange). At the time of the Exchange Agreement the net amount of long-term debt redeemed for common stock was $14,688,000, this included the existing principal balance subject to conversion, the portion of the exit fee associated with the notes subject to conversion, offset by the portion of unamortized issuance costs associated with the notes subject to conversion. There was also $226,000 related to the PIK interest associated to the notes subject to conversion that was exchanged as part of the Exchange Agreements. The difference between the market value of the shares issued and the net carrying amount of the obligations above, was recorded as part of debt extinguishments costs in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. On September 16, 2020, we issued a cash payment for the remaining aggregate principal balance of 2019 Promissory Notes. As a result of this optional prepayment, the 2019 Promissory Notes, have been fully redeemed pursuant to their terms, and as a result we have no further obligations under the Note Purchase Agreement, as amended. The warrants previously issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, as amended, remain outstanding pursuant to their terms. The following table sets forth the components of our cash flows for the period included (dollars in thousands): Nine Months ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities - continuing operations $ (7,860 ) $ (4,394 ) $ (3,466 ) -79 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities - continuing operations 5,681 (406 ) 6,087 1499 % Net cash provided by financing activities - continuing operations 24,756 3,876 20,880 539 % Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents - continuing operations $ 22,577 $ (924 ) $ 23,501 2543 % Net cash used in operating activities continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 had a net decrease of $3,466,000 which was primarily due to the $3,631,000 gain on the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal. The gain on the sale is shown as a decrease in cash flow from operations and an increase in cash flow from investing activities to reflect the nature of the transactions. This gain on the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal was partially offset by increase in depreciation, amortization of intangible asset and a $3,281,000 loss on extinguishment of debt related to the retirement of the 2019 Promissory Notes. The net increase of net cash provided by (used in) investment activities continuing operations of $6,087,000 was primarily due to the cash proceeds of the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal and the cash proceeds from the note receivable issued in connection with the sale of AOC Key Solutions. Net cash provided by financing activities continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 increased $20,880,000 from the prior nine month period ended September 30, 2019. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020 cash provided by financing activities was related to the issuance of stock as part of the at-the-market agreement and issuance of common stock in connection with the exercises of stock options and warrants during the period. In 2020, this amount was offset by $7,226,000 of cash outflows related to the modification and retirement of the 2019 Promissory Notes. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 cash provided by financing activities was related to the $3,839,000 proceeds from the 2019 Promissory Notes issued the first quarter of 2019. During 2020 and 2019, we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities from our subsidiaries, secured borrowing arrangements, issuance of debt, the sale of our subsidiaries and the sale of equity. As of September 30, 2020, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations of $24,154,000 and working capital of $21,230,000, as compared to unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $1,075,000 and a working capital deficit of $1,786,000 as of December 31, 2019. Operating assets and liabilities consist primarily of receivables from billed and unbilled services, accounts payable, accrued expenses, secured borrowing arrangements, and accrued payroll and related benefits. The volume of billings and timing of collections and payments affect these account balances. 44 As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately $16,459,000 of licensing and subscription contracts that were closed prior to September 30, 2020 but have a contractual subscription period beyond September 30, 2020. These subscription contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, in which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately 27% of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following four years. On occasion our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the subscription contract for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. We have experienced growth of 69% in the unaudited remaining contract value of licensing and subscription contracts from September 30, 2019 through September 30, 2020. The table below shows the quarter by quarter growth is such contract value (dollars in thousands): 45 Series A Preferred Stock The holders of Rekor Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.175 (7% per annum) per share. Dividends accrue quarterly and dividend payments for declared dividends are due within five business days following the end of a quarter. Series B Preferred Stock As part of the acquisition of TeamGlobal, we issued 240,861 shares of $0.0001 par value Series B Preferred Stock. All Series B Preferred Stock was issued at a price of $10.00 per share with a conversion price of $5.00 per share. Each Series B Preferred Stock has an automatic conversion feature based on our common stock share price. The Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to quarterly cash dividends of 1.121% (4.484% per annum) per share. Dividends accrue quarterly and dividend payments for declared dividends are due within five business days following the end of a quarter. At-the-Market Offering On August 14, 2019, we entered into the Sales Agreement with B. Riley FBR, Inc. (B. Riley FBR) to create an at-the-market equity program under which we, from time to time offered and sold shares of our common stock, having an aggregate offering price of up to $15,000,000, through or to B. Riley FBR. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Sales Agreement, B. Riley FBR used its commercially reasonable efforts to sell the shares of our common stock from time to time, based upon our instructions. B. Riley FBR was entitled to a commission equal to 3.0% of the gross proceeds from each sale. We incurred issuance costs of approximately $226,000 related to legal, accounting, and other fees in connection with the Sales Agreement. These costs were charged against the gross proceeds of the Sales Agreement and presented as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. On August 28, 2020, we filed Amendment No. 1 to the Sales Agreement dated August 14, 2019 to increase the size of the market equity program under which we, from time to time offered and sold shares of our common stock, from an aggregate offering price of up to $15,000,000 to an amended maximum aggregate offering price of up to $40,000,000 through or to B. Riley FBR. We incurred issuance costs of approximately $25,000 related to legal fees in connection with the amendment to the Sales Agreement. Sales of the Companys common stock under the Sales Agreement were issued and sold pursuant to the Companys shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No 333-224423), previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 24, 2018 and declared effective by the SEC on April 30, 2018. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, based on settlement date, we sold 5,216,562 shares of common stock at a weighted-average selling price of $5.92 per share in accordance with the Sales Agreement. Net cash provided for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 from the Sales Agreement was $29,930,000 after paying 3.0% or $926,000 related to cash commissions provided to B. Riley FBR. On September 21, 2020, we elected to voluntarily terminate its Sales Agreement with B. Riley FBR pursuant to the terms of the Sales Agreement. As of the termination, we had offered and sold an aggregate of 6,509,202 shares of common stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement, which resulted in aggregate gross proceeds of $34,154,000. No additional sources of capital have been obtained or committed through the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. There are currently no anticipated changes in the mix and relative cost of capital resources. Due to the operating costs associated with being a public company and expenses related to product development and commercialization costs at other subsidiaries, we anticipate that we may operate at a loss in the near-term. As of September 30, 2020, we did not have any material commitments for capital expenditures. I TEM 3. QUANTITAIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK As a smaller reporting company as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, Rekor is not required to provide information required by this Item 3. 46 I TEM 4.