Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Novume is a Delaware corporation formed on February 6, 2017 to effectuate the Mergers and to become a holding company for Brekford and KeyStone and their respective subsidiaries following the consummation of the Mergers. Prior to the consummation of the Mergers, Novume has had and will have no operations other than those incidental to its formation, its execution of the Merger Agreement, and the preparation of this Quarterly Report. Novume currently has no operations and no or nominal assets and liabilities. If the Mergers are completed: (1) each share of the common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of Brekford ( Brekford Common Stock ) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and all rights in respect thereof, shall, without any action on the part of any holder thereof, cease to exist and be converted into and become exchangeable for the right to receive 1/15 th of a share (the Brekford Exchange Ratio ) of the common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of Novume (Novume Common Stock), (2) each share of the common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of KeyStone ( KeyStone Common Stock ) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and all rights in respect thereof, shall, without any action on the part of any holder thereof, cease to exist and be converted into and become exchangeable for, 1.9399449 (for convenience and readability, this ratio is referred to as 1.9399 hereinafter, but all calculations based on the ratio were completed using the actual ratio of 1.9399449) shares of Novume Common Stock (the KeyStone Common Exchange Ratio ), and (3) each share of Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of KeyStone ( KeyStone Preferred Stock ) and all rights in respect thereof, shall, without any action on the part of any holder thereof, cease to exist and be converted into and become exchangeable for 1 share of the Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of Novume ( Novume Preferred Stock and such 1 for 1 ratio, the KeyStone Preferred Exchange Ratio ). The Brekford Exchange Ratio, the KeyStone Common Exchange Ratio and the KeyStone Preferred Exchange Ratio (collectively the Exchange Ratios ) have been determined with the intent that immediately after the Mergers, the pre-merger stockholders of Brekford will own that portion of the capital stock of Novume as shall be equal to approximately 20% of the issued and outstanding Novume Common Stock, on a fully-diluted basis, and the pre-merger stockholders of KeyStone will own that portion of the capital stock of Novume as is equal to approximately 80% of the issued and outstanding Novume Common Stock, on a fully-diluted basis. In accomplishing the Mergers through Novume, KeyStone and Brekford intend to pursue their existing lines of business separately while achieving certain economies and benefits from pooled management, shared regulatory compliance costs and other complementary resources that can assist in supporting Novumes growth. Through internal growth and strategic acquisitions, where appropriate and available, Novume seeks to develop its core business as a service provider to global and domestic companies that do business with governments both in the United States and abroad. In selective situations, Novume will also seek to serve as a partner or incubator for emerging businesses, like Brekfords automated traffic safety enforcement business, where an understanding of government contracting procedures and contacts with other seasoned providers of government services or products can be critical to success. Novume Solutions, Inc. has not commenced operations, has no significant assets or liabilities and has not conducted any material activities other than those incidental to its formation and matters contemplated by the Merger Agreement, as amended, from its February 6, 2017, date of incorporation through June 30, 2017. The mailing address of Novumes principal executive offices is 14420 Albemarle Point Place, Suite 200, Chantilly, VA 20151, and its telephone number is (703) 953-3838. * * * * * * * * This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Novume Solutions, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Novume , or the Company ), contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by use of forward-looking terminology such as may, will, should, potential, intend, expect, outlook, seek, anticipate, estimate, approximately, believe, could, project, predict, or other similar words or expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions, discuss future expectations, describe future plans and strategies, contain financial and operating projections or state other forward-looking information. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future events, actions, plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our actual results and performance could differ materially from those set forth or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements, which reflect our views as of the date of this report. The matters summarized below and elsewhere in this report could cause our actual results and performance to differ materially from those set forth or anticipated in forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee future results or performance. Furthermore, except as required by law, we are under no duty to, and we do not intend to, update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of our operations together with our unaudited financial statements for the period ended June 30, 2017 and the notes thereto at the end of this report. 7