ITEM 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Human Capital Management Our employees represent the best and brightest in our industry and the talent we select to be a part of our team defines our culture and success. Our global workforce is highly educated, technical and specialized, with a substantial majority of employees working in technical roles. As of March 31, 2022, we had 250 employees, of which 249 were full-time and one wa s considered part-time. We consider our employee relations to be good. To date, we have been able to locate and engage highly qualified employees as needed and do not expect our growth efforts to be constrained by a lack of qualified personnel. 17 Seasonality We generate revenues from licensing and subscriptions to our products and services. Therefore, we do not currently anticipate a significant seasonality impact on our revenues. Should our penetration of tolling and other markets involving per recognition fees expand, we would expect to become more subject to seasonal traffic patterns. Insurance and Risk Management We maintain insurance covering professional liability and claims involving bodily injury, property and economic loss. We consider our present limits of coverage, deductibles, and reserves to be adequate. Whenever possible, we endeavor to eliminate or reduce the risk of loss on a project through quality assurance and control, risk management, workplace safety, and other similar methods. Risk management is an integral part of our project management approach for fixed-price contracts and our project execution process. We also evaluate risk through internal risk analyses in which our management reviews higher-risk projects, contracts, or other business decisions that require corporate legal and risk management approval. Regulation We are regulated in some of the fields in which we operate. When working with governmental agencies and entities, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of contracts. These laws and regulations contain terms that, among other things may require certification and disclosure of all costs or pricing data in connection with various contract negotiations. We are subject to the laws and regulations that restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes. To help ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, our employees are sometimes required to complete tailored ethics and other compliance training relevant to their position and our operations. 18 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Business We are currently not profitable, and we may be unable to become profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we had a loss from continuing operations of $26,777,000 . W e cannot assure that we will be profitable in the future or that our financial performance will sustain a sufficient level to completely support operations. Our ability to become profitable in future periods could be impacted by government activity and regulation, economic instability and other items that are not in our control, and the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed in advance. As such, we generally are unable to reduce our expenses significantly in the short term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues or increases in planned investments. In addition, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant expenses related to acquisitions and the development of new products and services. Our strategic transition to a technology-based company focused on vehicle recognition systems will require us to generate sufficient new revenues from the vehicle recognition market to support our business plan while continuing to operate as a public company. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses and net losses in the future, which would make it difficult to fund operations and achieve our business plan and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We rely, in part, on third-party data providers and existing camera networks to grow our business. If we are unable to enter into agreements with third-party data providers or successfully maintain them, our growth may be adversely impacted. We rely, in part, on access the third-party data and access to existing camera networks to grow our business. The majority of the third-party data agreements allow us to access connected vehicle data, existing camera networks or other data services, thereby increasing the data points used in our solutions. Any agreement we enter into with a third party may not be on favorable terms, and the expected benefits and growth from these agreements may not materialize as planned. Despite our past experience, opportunities to grow our business through third-party data may not be available to us in the future. The market for our Rekor One platform is new and unproven, and may decline or experience limited growth and is dependent in part on our ability to attract new customers to adopt our platform and use our services. The market for an ecosystem that connects government agencies, service providers and, ultimately, drivers is relatively new and some aspects of it are unproven, therefore, it is subject to several risks and uncertainties. We believe that our future success will significantly depend in large part on the growth, if any, of this market. The use of advanced vehicle recognition systems and marketplace data to obtain data on vehicles, drivers and the environment is still relatively new and consumers may not recognize the need for, or benefits of, our platform and solutions. Moreover, if they do not recognize the need for and benefits of our platform and solutions, they may decide to adopt alternative services to satisfy some portion of their business needs. Our ability to expand the market that our platform and solutions address depends upon a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with them. The market for our platform and solutions could fail to grow significantly or there could be a reduction in demand for its services as a result of a lack of acceptance, technological challenges, competing services, decreases in spending by current and prospective customers, weakening economic conditions and other causes. If our market does not experience significant growth, or demand for our services decreases, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 19 We depend on component and product manufacturing provided by outsourcing partners, most of which are located outside of the U.S. We rely on single-source outsourcing partners primarily located in Asia to supply and manufacture many components of substantially all of our hardware products. Any failure of these partners to perform can have a negative impact on our cost or supply of components or finished goods. In addition, manufacturing or logistics in these locations or transit to final destinations can be disrupted for a variety of reasons, including natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions, economic, business, labor, environmental, public health or political issues, or international trade disputes. Our internal investments and go-to-market strategy may place downward pressure on our operating margins. To increase our revenue growth, we continue to invest in our business, including investments into new markets as part of our go-to-market strategy and investment in continuous innovation and product development to expand the suite of solutions we provide to our customers. Our operating margins may experience downward pressure in the short term as a result of these investments. Furthermore, our investments may not produce the expected results. If we are unable to successfully execute our go-to-market strategy, we may experience decreases in our revenues and operating margins. We have not been a leading provider of public safety products and services in the past and do not have the level of established contacts and existing business relationships that some of our competitors have. Although it is growing, our presence in the public safety, transportation and parking markets has been limited. As a result of this, although we believe our products and services have significant competitive advantages, we may encounter difficulties in establishing widespread market acceptance of our products in various markets and regions. Early successes in penetrating these markets and regions may not be able to be sustained once our ability to compete with our more established competitors comes to their attention. They may seek to develop more competitive products before their existing contracts expire, reduce prices, use to advantage their past association as a trusted provider and their superior financial and marketing resources and use other stratagems to this competitive advantage, which could significantly impact our ability to continue to grow. We will need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We have experienced fluctuations in earnings and cash flows from operations from year to year. To support business growth, or if our business declines, we may need to raise additional capital to support operations, pursue acquisitions or expand our operations. Such additional capital may be raised through bank borrowings, or other debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, and such additional financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to increase revenue, reduce net losses or generate net income; market acceptance of our services, and the overall level of sales of our services; our need to respond to technological advancements and our competitors introductions of new products, services or technologies; our ability to control costs; promptness of customer payments; our ability to successfully negotiate arrangements with credit providers; and enhancements to subsidiaries infrastructure and systems. If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, or we may be forced to sell assets at prices below their stated value. If we experience declining or flat revenues and fail to manage such declines effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plans and may experience future weaknesses in operating results. 20 To achieve future growth, we will need to continue to add additional qualified personnel and invest in additional research and development and sales and marketing activities, which could lead to increases in our expenses and future declines in operating results. In addition, our future expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage these activities or any revenue declines successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. Customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after their subscription period expires, and these subscriptions may not be renewed on the same or more profitable terms. As a result, our ability to sustain our revenue base depends in part on subscription renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our services, the prices of the products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our products and services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. Our sales cycles for commercial and government clients can be long, unpredictable and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The timing of our revenue from sales to commercial and government clients is difficult to predict. These efforts require us to educate our clients about the use and benefit of our services, including the technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Commercial clients typically undertake a significant evaluation and pilot testing process that has in the past, resulted in lengthy sales cycles, typically several months. We spend substantial time, effort and money on our commercial sales efforts without any assurance that these efforts will produce any sales. In addition, subscriptions are frequently subject to budget constraints and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific client for a particular reporting period are not realized in that period or at all, our results could fall short of expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive service than they had offered individually. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Many of the companies driving this trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary services and technologies. Such combinations and realignments may create more compelling service offerings or offer greater pricing flexibility than we can or may engage in business practices that make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or service functionality. These pressures could result in a loss of customers, reduction in revenues or limitation on our ability to grow. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in time to address the needs of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The cloud-based services and AI-based product markets in which many of our products and services compete are characterized by rapid technological change, the frequent introduction of new products and services and evolving industry standards. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in large part on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services and develop new service offerings that keep pace with these markets rapid technological developments. Additionally, to achieve market acceptance, we must effectively anticipate and offer products and services that meet changing client demands in a timely manner. Clients may require features and capabilities that our current products and services do not have. If we fail to develop products and services that satisfy customer requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to renew subscriptions with existing clients and our ability to create or increase demand for our products and services will be harmed, and our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. 21 The success of our business will depend, in part, on the continued services of certain key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the continued services of certain members of our management. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. Although we take prudent steps to retain key personnel, we face competition for qualified individuals from numerous professional services and technology companies. For example, our competitors may be able to attract and retain more qualified professional and technical personnel by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new personnel and retain our current personnel, we may not be able to develop and maintain our services at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. It may also be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals in the timeframe demanded by our clients. Furthermore, some of our contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions which we consummate, and we may be subject to business uncertainties. Uncertainties about the effect of our recent and planned acquisitions on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on our Company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel for a period of time after the acquisitions, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us, which may have an adverse effect on our Company. Employee retention may be particularly challenging, as employees may experience an uncertainty about their future roles with us. The achievement of the benefits expected from the integration of acquired companies may require us to incur significant costs. The incurrence of any such costs, as well as any unexpected costs or delays, in connection with such integration, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be required to write-down certain assets after completing our required annual evaluations, which may affect our reported financial results. The initial determination of the fair value of assets we acquire upon consummation of an acquisition is based upon an internal valuation. We are required to analyze the carrying value of our acquired intangibles and goodwill on an annual basis going forward. After the detailed annual evaluation of the carrying value of the intangible assets, as supported by external analysis, we may be required to make adjustments to our consolidated balance sheet and/or statement of operations. Any adjustments will affect our reported financial results. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes for our licensing and subscription products and services or pay regulatory fees in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. Primarily due to the nature of our cloud-based services in certain states and countries, we do not believe we are required to collect sales or other related taxes from our customers in certain states or countries. However, one or more other states or countries may seek to impose sales, regulatory fees or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales by us or our resellers and other partners. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other related taxes on our services or paying regulatory fees could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our services or otherwise harm our business and operating results. 22 Improper disclosure of confidential and personal data could result in liability and harm to our reputation. Our handling and storage of the data we collect from some of our customers, vendors and employees, and our processing of data, which may include confidential or personally identifiable information, through the services we provide, may be subject to a variety of laws and regulations, which have been adopted by various federal, state and foreign governments to regulate the collection, distribution, use and storage of personal information of individuals. Several foreign countries in which we conduct business, including the European Economic Area (EEA) and Canada, currently have in place or have recently proposed, laws or regulations concerning privacy, data protection and information security, which are more restrictive than those imposed in the United States. Some of these laws are in their early stages and we cannot yet determine the impact these revised laws and regulations, if implemented, may have on our business. However, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these privacy laws, regulations, policies or obligations or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data in our possession, could result in government enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties and/or adverse publicity, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. For example, the EEA wide General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became applicable on May 25, 2018, replacing the data protection laws of each EEA member state. The GDPR implemented more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements to erase an individuals information upon request, mandatory data breach notification requirements and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. It also significantly increases penalties for non-compliance, including where we act as a service provider (e.g. data processor). If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with applicable current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we use personal data or our marketing practices, fines, for example, of up to 20 million Euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) under the GDPR, or other liabilities, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Data protection regulation remains an area of increased focus in all jurisdictions and data protection regulations continue to evolve. There is no assurance that we will be able to meet new requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personally identifiable information from the EU to the United States without incurring substantial expense or at all. European and/or multi-national customers may be reluctant to purchase or continue to use our services due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. In addition, we may be subject to claims, legal proceedings or other actions by individuals or governmental authorities if they have reason to believe that our data privacy or security measures fail to comply with current or future laws and regulations. Moreover, we must ensure that certain vendors and customers who have access to such information also have the appropriate privacy policies, procedures and protections in place. Although we take customary measures to protect such information, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee or subcontractor error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are growing increasingly sophisticated. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. This environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls throughout our business. Despite these efforts, it is possible that our security controls over data, training and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable or other confidential information. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could be liable under laws and regulations that protect personal or other confidential data resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues and the market perception of our services could be harmed. 23 Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber and other security threats or disruptions. We face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; insider threats; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. Cyber threats are constant and evolving and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, malicious software, destructive malware, attacks by computer hackers attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release or loss of confidential, personal or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our employees, customers or subcontractors), and corruption of data, networks or systems. In addition, we could be impacted by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities found in products we use or in our partners or customers systems that are used in connection with our business. Our clients and subcontractors face similar threats and/or they may not be able to detect or deter them, or effectively mitigate resulting losses. These threats could damage our reputation as well as our subcontractors ability to perform and could affect our clients ability to pay. Although we use various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats to us, our clients and our partners, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation and/or require remedial actions or lead to loss of business, regulatory actions potential liability and financial loss, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We are dependent upon technology services, and if we experience damage, service interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems, our customer and worker relationships and our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected. Our business could be interrupted by damage to or disruption of our computer, telecommunications equipment, software systems, or software applications. Our customers businesses may be adversely affected by any system, application or equipment failure we experience. As a result of any of the foregoing, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, we may lose customers, our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to contractual liability. Precautions in place to protect us from, or minimize the effect of, such events may not be adequate. In addition, the failure or disruption of mail, communications and/or utilities could cause an interruption or suspension of our operations or otherwise harm our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, revenue, profits and operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, we will not be able to remain competitive, and the demand for our services will likely decline. The markets in which we operate are in general characterized by the following factors: changes due to rapid technological advances; additional qualification requirements related to technological challenges; and evolving industry standards and changes in the regulatory and legislative environment. Our future success will depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and to effectively develop, introduce, market and gain broad acceptance of new product and service enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements. 24 A downturn of the U.S. or global economy could result in our customers using fewer products and services or becoming unable to pay us for our services on a timely basis or at all, which would materially adversely affect our business. Because demand for our solutions and services are sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. During periods of weak economic growth or economic contraction, the demand for outsourced services could decline. When demand drops, our operating profit could be impacted unfavorably as we experience a deleveraging of our selling and administrative expense base because expenses may not decline as quickly as revenues. In periods of decline, we can only reduce selling and administrative expenses to a certain level without negatively impacting the long-term potential of our business. Additionally, during economic downturns, government agencies and companies may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors, or they may become unable to pay their obligations. If our customers become unable to pay amounts owed to us or pay us more slowly, then our cash flow and profitability may suffer significantly. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations, which could subject our business to higher tax liability. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can offset future taxable income for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2021, we had gross federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $51,838,000 and $43,570,000, respectively. A lack of future taxable income could adversely affect our ability to use these NOLs. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, including through acquisitions, could result in ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and may result in a limitation on the amount of NOL carryforwards that could be used annually to offset future taxable income and taxes payable. Our NOLs at December 31, 2021 may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law and may expire unused or underused, which would prevent us from using our NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income. Assertions by a third party that our services and solutions infringe its intellectual property, whether or not correct, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or result in settlements or licensing arrangements that could affect our short-term or long-term profitability. There is frequent litigation in the software and technology industries based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Because of the potential for court awards that are difficult to predict, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. In addition, our service agreements may require us to indemnify our customers from certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. Competitors may also seek to use these claims and the pendency of associated litigation as a means of attempting to discredit us or make potential customers fearful of using us, which could harm our relationships with our customers, deter future customers from subscribing to our services or expose us to further litigation. These costs, monetary or otherwise, associated with defending against third-party allegations of infringement could have negative effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our services are used to commit intentional or illegal acts, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not secure, and customers may curtail or stop using our services. Certain services offered by us enable customers to capture data from video images. Although our service agreements require our customers to comply with all applicable laws, we do not exercise direct control overuse or content of information obtained by our customers through the use of our services. If our services are used by others to commit bad or illegal acts, we may become subject to claims and subject to other potential liabilities. Defending against such claims could be expensive and time-consuming, and there is a possibility that we could incur significant liability to entities who were harmed by such acts. As a result, our business may suffer, and our reputation may be damaged. 25 We use a limited number of data centers to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could harm our business. Our cloud-based services are hosted from third-party data center facilities located in various parts of the United States. We also use these facilities for some of our development efforts. We do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of these data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. In addition, our operations and development efforts could be seriously affected by failures or interruptions in service at these facilities. Any changes in third-party service levels at these third-party data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services related to the non-performance of these facilities could harm our reputation and may damage our clients businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to clients, subject us to potential liability, cause clients to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, pandemics, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. Conducting international operations subjects us to other risks than those we have generally faced in the United States. These risks include: localization of our services and adaptation for local practices, differences in local, legal standards and regulatory requirements; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; dependence on customers, third parties, and channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added or other tax systems; reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright, service mark and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights, all of which can provide only limited protection. In addition, we have not patented significant technologies used to provide our services. We cannot assure you any future patents that may be applied for and issued will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. 26 Material defects or errors in the software that we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions. The software applications underlying our products and services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our products and services could result in: a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; sales credits or refunds to customers; loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; reputational harm; and diversion of internal resources. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our products and services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Government regulation of the Internet, telecommunications and other communications technologies could harm our business and operating results. As internet commerce and telecommunications continue to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments and agencies becomes more likely. Any increase in regulation could affect our clients ability to collect and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet or utilizing telecommunications services may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the internet could diminish the viability of our services, which could harm our business and operating results. Natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, and other catastrophic events or other events outside of our control may damage our business and operating results. In the event of natural disasters, public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, including from the continued effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, political crises, such as terrorism, war, political instability or other conflicts, or other events outside of our control, our business and operating results could suffer. Moreover, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally, which could adversely impact our operating results. We may be impacted by macroeconomic conditions resulting from the global COVID-19 pandemic. Since the first quarter of 2020, there has been a worldwide impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. Government regulations and shifting social behaviors have limited or closed non-essential transportation, government functions, business activities and person-to-person interactions. In some cases, the relaxation of such trends has been followed by actual or contemplated returns to stringent restrictions on gatherings or commerce, including in parts of the U.S., and the rest of the world. During the COVID-19 pandemic, certain industry events at which we present and participate have been canceled, postponed or moved to virtual-only experiences, we have encouraged all of our employees to work remotely, and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional customer, employee or industry events in the future due to the ongoing pandemic. Additionally, we may see our services carrying less revenue-generating traffic in areas subject to shelter in place restrictions or related government orders as the population of those areas refrain from traveling and normal commerce activities. We cannot predict the duration or direction of current global trends or their sustained impact. Ultimately, we continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions to remain flexible and to optimize and evolve our business as appropriate, and we will have to accurately project demand and deploy our solutions, workforce and other resources accordingly. If we experience unfavorable market conditions, or if we cannot or do not maintain operations at a scope that is commensurate with such conditions or are later required to or choose to suspend such operations, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. 27 Risks relating to our common stock If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business, our market and our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease covering us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. As of March 31, 2022, we have a total o f 44,949,939 shar es of common stock outstanding and 694 ,876 wa rrants. Based on shares outstanding as of March 31, 2022, 5,564,807 shares of common stock, or 12.4%, are beneficially owned by our officers, directors and their affiliated entities, and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. In addition, 2,322,166 shar es of our common stock that are subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and warrants as of March 31, 2022, will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, sales of our shares in the public market or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. However, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued on exercise of outstanding options, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We also expect that significant additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. On February 24, 2022, we entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the "2022 Sales Agreement") with B. Riley Securities, Inc., as sales agent, to create an at the market equity program, or ATM program, under which we, from time to time, may offer and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $50,000,000. As of March 31, 2022 the Company issued 728,452 shares of its common stock in exchange for net cash of $3,303,000 under the 2022 Sales Agreement. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Investors may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to sell shares or other securities in any other offering at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share paid by investors, and investors purchasing our shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by investors. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that for the foreseeable future we will retain all of our future earnings for the development, operation and growth of our business and general corporate purposes. Any future determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. 28 Our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates will continue to exercise significant influence over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of March 31, 2022, our executive officers, directors, five percent or greater stockholders and their respective affiliates owned in the aggregate approximately 1 2.6% of our common stock. These stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position and may have a determining role in matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to ultimately determine elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. We are a smaller reporting company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are currently a smaller reporting company, meaning that we are not an investment company, an asset-backed issuer, or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent company that is not a smaller reporting company, and have had annual revenues of less than $100 million and public float of less than $700 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. As a smaller reporting company, we are subject to lesser disclosure obligations in our SEC filings compared to other issuers. Specifically, "smaller reporting companies" are able to provide simplified executive compensation disclosures in their filings, are exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that independent registered public accounting firms provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and have certain other decreased disclosure obligations in their SEC filings, including, among other things, only being required to provide two years of audited consolidated financial statements in annual reports. Decreased disclosures in our SEC filings due to our status as a smaller reporting company may make it harder for investors to analyze our operating results and financial prospects. Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock for three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult, including that: the request of one or more stockholders holding shares in the aggregate entitled to cast not less than 35% of the vote at a meeting is required to call a stockholder meeting. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take certain actions you desire. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices are located at 6721 Columbia Gateway Drive, Suite 400, Columbia, Maryland 21046. We do not own any real property. We do not consider any of our leased properties to be materially important to us. While we believe it is necessary to maintain offices through which our services are coordinated, we feel there are sufficient available office rental properties to adequately serve our needs should we need to relocate or expand our operations. 29 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On August 19, 2019, we filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against three former executives of the Company who were founders of two related former subsidiaries (the Firestorm Principals)Rekor Systems, Inc. v. Suzanne Loughlin, et al., Case no. 1:19-cv-07767-VEC. On January 30, 2020, we filed a Second Amended Complaint (the Complaint). The Complaint alleges that the Firestorm Principals fraudulently induced the execution of the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement wherein Firestorm was acquired by the Company. The Complaint also alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty, violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), conversion, and trespass to chattels arising from the Firestorm Principals alleged deletion of company email records. The Complaint requests equitable rescission of the acquisition transaction and monetary damages. The Firestorm Principals answered together with counterclaims on February 28, 2020. Thereafter, on March 30, we moved to dismiss certain counterclaims against certain directors and officers named as counterclaim-defendants, resulting in the Firestorm Principals voluntarily dismissing the counterclaims against those parties. Thereafter the Company filed its response and affirmative defenses to the Counterclaims on April 22, 2020. On April 27, 2020, the Firestorm Principals filed a Motion for Partial Judgment on the Pleadings, which we opposed. In addition, on December 9, 2019, the Firestorm Principals filed a motion for an interim award of expenses and attorneys fees. With respect to the Firestorm Principals motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Courts November 23, 2020 order denied that motion in its entirety. In that same order, the Court granted in part and denied in part the Firestorm Principals fee advance motion. On April 27, 2021, the Firestorm Principals filed a notice of motion for partial summary judgment, seeking summary judgment on several of the Companys claims and the Firestorm Principals counterclaims, which the Company, along with counterclaim-defendants Firestorm Franchising, LLC and Firestorm Solutions, LLC, opposed. On March 14, 2022, the Court issued an opinion and order which denied summary judgment to the Firestorm Principals on the Company's main fraudulent omission claim, the conversion and trespass to chattels claims as to Defendants Loughlin and Rhulen and the breach of fiduciary duty claim as to Defendant Loughlin. The Court also denied summary judgment to the Firestorm Principals on their breach of warrants, anticipatory breach of warrants, and anticipatory breach of promissory notes counterclaims and the breach of contract counterclaim asserted by Defendant Satterfield. The Court granted summary judgment to the Firestorm Principals on our CFAA claims, based on recent case law clarifying that such claims do not apply to employees who have authorized access to an employers computer and misuse that access, and granted summary judgment on our CFAA, conversion, and trespass to chattels claims against one defendant because Rekor represented it was prepared to dismiss those claims. The Court also granted summary judgment on one breach of contract counterclaim asserted by a company related to the Firestorm Principals, holding that the $25,500 amount at issue could not be set off by or recouped from our damages in the case. In 2020, the Firestorm Principals filed various suits in New York, Delaware and Virginia against our directors and officers, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and libel. The defendants in the suits moved to dismiss these complaints. At this stage of these litigations, suits against two of the directors have been dismissed. On September 28, 2021, the Court issued an order denying the motion to dismiss one of the actions in Delaware. On October 21, 2021, the Delaware Action defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the Courts dismissal order; that reconsideration motion was denied on February 28, 2022. On March 16, 2022, the court in the Virginia Action dismissed the breach of fiduciary duty claim without prejudice (so it can be refiled in Delaware Chancery Court) and denied the motion with respect to the defamation claim on jurisdictional grounds. The defamation claim will now be challenged on substantive grounds. At this stage of these litigations, we are unable to render an opinion regarding the likelihood of a favorable outcome. We intend to continue vigorously litigating its claims against the Firestorm Principals and believe that the Firestorm Principals remaining counterclaims and suits against Rekor directors and officers are without merit. On January 31, 2020, our wholly-owned subsidiary, OpenALPR, filed a complaint in the US District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against a former customer, Plate Capture Solutions, Inc. (PCS) for breach of software license agreements pursuant to which software was licensed to PCS. On June 14, 2020, PCS filed its operative answer to the Complaint. On June 21, 2020, PCS filed a motion to join us and another entity, OpenALPR Technology, Inc., as parties to the litigation and made claims against them and counterclaims against OpenALPR for defamation, fraud and intentional interference with existing and future business relationships. On July 13, 2020, OpenALPR filed an opposition to the motion for joinder. On November 23, 2020, the court denied PCSs Motion for Joinder with prejudice. On August 30, 2021, OpenALPR and PCS filed a joint stipulation of dismissal with prejudice, and the court ordered dismissal of the case with prejudice on August 31, 2021. We consider this matter closed. On September 18, 2020, Fordham Financial Management, Inc. (Fordham) commenced a lawsuit against us in the Supreme Court for the State of New York, New York County. Fordham alleges that we breached an underwriting agreement with Fordham. Fordham has brought claims for breach of contract, a declaratory judgment, and attorneys fees and expenses, and seeks damages. The Complaint was served to us on September 25, 2020. We issued a motion to dismiss counterclaims on June 23, 2021. The Court granted Fordhams motion to dismiss our counterclaims on October 23, 2021. On November 29, 2021, the Company filed a notice of appeal with the Appellate Division and a motion to reargue that decision and order, arguing that the court misunderstood the nature and purpose of the prospectus supplement, which was actually prepared by plaintiff after it set the prices for the 2018 offering. On March 3, 2022, the court denied the motion to reargue. In doing so, however, the court clarified that the dismissal was without prejudice, which would permit the Company to refashion the counterclaims. Meanwhile, the Companys deadline to perfect its concurrent appeal in the appellate division is May 30, 2022. 30 At this stage of the Fordham litigation, we are unable to render an opinion regarding the likelihood of a favorable outcome. However, we maintain that Fordhams claims have no merit. To that end we intend to vigorously litigate this action. In June 2021, a putative shareholder class action lawsuit (captioned Miller v. Rekor Systems, Inc. et al.) was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, naming as defendants Rekor Systems, Inc. and certain of its officers. It alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) and Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 related to our automatic license plate recognition technology and uninsured vehicle enforcement diversion related business and sought damages on behalf of shareowners who acquired our stock between April 12, 2019 and May 25, 2021. The court appointed a lead plaintiff. In November 2021, the plaintiff filed an order of dismissal, seeking to voluntarily dismiss without prejudice. This matter was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. In addition, from time to time, we may be named as a party to various other lawsuits, claims and other legal and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, infringement of proprietary rights, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to such lawsuits, claims and proceedings we accrue reserves when a loss is probable, and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. It is our opinion that the outcome of these proceedings, individually and collectively, will not be material to our consolidated financial statements as a whole. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 31 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol REKR. Holders As of March 31, 2022, there were 73 registered holders of record of our common stock, excluding stockholders for whom shares are held in nominee or street name. The actual number of common stockholders is greater than the number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities . Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our earnings will be used to provide working capital, to support our operations, and to finance the growth and development of our business, including potentially the acquisition of, or investment in, businesses, technologies or products that complement our existing business. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, applicable Delaware law, which provides that dividends are only payable out of surplus or current net profits and other factors our Board of Directors might deem relevant. Recent Sale of Unregistered Securities Automatic Conversion of Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock and Series B Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock Following Registered Public Offering On February 9, 2021, we issued and sold 6,126,936 shares of our common stock, which includes 799,166 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the exercise of an overallotment option (the "2021 Public Offering"). The net proceeds to the Company, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, were approximately $70.1 million. The shares were sold pursuant to an underwriting agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc. and Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein and our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-224423) filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) that became effective on April 30, 2018. On February 4, 2021, a prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus were filed with the SEC in connection with the offering and a related registration statement (File No. 333-252735) was filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) promulgated under the Securities Act. As a result of the closing of the 2021 Public Offering, all of our issued and outstanding Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Series A Preferred Stock) and Series B Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Series B Preferred Stock) were automatically converted pursuant to their respective terms into an aggregate of 1,416,785 shares of our common stock. As a result of the automatic conversion of the Series A Preferred, the Series A Preferred will no longer be quoted on the OTC Pink. The Series B Preferred was not quoted on any trading market. 32 Waycare Acquisition On August 18, 2021, the Company completed its acquisition of Waycare by acquiring 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Waycare. As a result of the acquisition, Waycare is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The aggregate purchase price for the shares of Waycare was $60,171,000 , less the amount of Waycares debt and certain transaction expenses and subject to a customary working capital adjustment. The purchase price was comprised of $39,884,000 of cash and 2,784,474 shares of the Companys common stock, valued at $20,287,000. As a result of the transaction, Waycare became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of the Waycare purchase agreement, the Company reserved for issuance to Waycares continuing employees an aggregate of 686,248 restricted stock units, which were granted on November 3, 2021 pursuant to the terms of the Companys 2017 Equity Award Plan, as amended. The restricted stock units are subject to customary vesting schedules and are intended to incentivize the continued performance of Waycares employees. On August 24, 2021, a registration statement on Form S-8 was filed with the SEC (File No. 333-259041), to registered 597,544 shares issued in exchange for options held under Waycares employee incentive plan. On October 29, 2021, a resale registration statement on Form S-3 was filed with the SEC (File No. 333-26067), and subsequently declared effective by the SEC on November 10, 2021, allowing for the registered resale of 2,186,931 shares of common stock received as consideration by Waycares former stockholders. Use of Proceeds We have generated losses since our inception and have relied on cash on hand, external bank lines of credit, short-term borrowing arrangements, issuance of debt, the sale of a note, sale of our non-core subsidiaries, and the sale of common stock to provide cash for operations. We attribute losses to financing and acquisition costs, public company corporate overhead, lower than expected revenue, and lower gross profit of some of our subsidiaries. Our proceeds have been primarily used for research and development and sales and marketing expenses related to new product development and our strategic shift to develop and promote capabilities of our technology offerings. 33 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report and the historical financial statements of Rekor Systems, Inc., and the related notes thereto. Overview We are a global leader in intelligent infrastructure focused on addressing critical challenges across transportation management, public safety, and key commercial markets. With a real-time intelligence platform driven by deep access to data, AI-powered software, and smart optical devices at-the-edge, we combine our industry expertise and advanced proprietary technologies to deliver unrivaled insights that increase roadway safety, efficiency, and sustainability while enabling safer, smarter, and more connected cities and communities. Our products are used in over 80 countries as we deliver mission-critical intelligent infrastructure solutions and services for government agencies and commercial clients in the world. General The information provided in this discussion and analysis of Rekors financial condition and results of operations covers the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. In 2021, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Waycare Technologies, Ltd. During 2020 we sold our fully-owned subsidiaries AOC Key Solutions Inc. (AOC Key Solutions) and Global Technical Services Inc. (TeamGlobal). As a result of the dispositions, we determined in 2020 that all the remaining operations that comprised our Professional Services Segment met the criteria to be considered discontinued and they are no longer presented as continuing operations. Our financial results are impacted principally by the demand by clients for our products and services, the degree to which full-time staff can be kept occupied in revenue-generating activities and the success of our sales team in generating client engagements. Unexpected changes in the demand for our products and services can result in significant variations in revenues, and present a challenge to optimal hiring, staffing and use of consultants. The volume of work performed can vary from period to period. Acquisitions and Dispositions On April 2, 2020, we sold AOC Key Solutions for an aggregate purchase price of $4,000,000, consisting of $3,400,000 in cash and a subordinated promissory note in the amount of $600,000. On June 29, 2020, we sold TeamGlobal for an aggregate purchase price of $4,000,000, consisting of $2,300,000 in cash and a secured promissory note in the amount of $1,700,000. On August 18, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Waycare Technologies Ltd. (Waycare) for an aggregate purchase price of $60,171,000, consisting of $39,884,000 in cash and $20,287,000 of stock consideration. 34 Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties We look to identify the various trends, market cycles, uncertainties and other factors that may provide us with opportunities and present challenges that impact our operations and financial condition from time to time. Although there are many that we may not or cannot foresee, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by the following: Growing Smart City Market According to a United Nations report, about two-thirds of the world population will live in urban areas by 2050. Our cities are getting larger, with longer commutes, bigger roads and the resulting impact on the environment and the quality of life. This trend requires forward-thinking officials to manage assets and resources more efficiently. We believe that advancements in big data connected devices and artificial intelligence can provide Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) solutions that can be used to reduce congestion, keep travelers safe, improve transportation, protect the environment, respond to climate change, and enhance the quality of life. We believe our data-driven, artificial intelligence-aided solutions provide useful tools that can effectively tackle the challenges cities and communities are facing today and will face over the coming decades. AI for Infrastructure We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of conditions on roadways and other infrastructure can significantly affect the safety and efficiency of vehicular travel in the future. As vehicles move towards full automation, there is a need for real-time data and actionable insights around traffic flow, identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way vehicles, stopped vehicles, or/and pedestrians on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can also benefit from rapid, lower cost identification of existing and potential customers in streamlining and accelerating local vehicular flow as well as data about the vehicles on the roadway. Connected Vehicle Data Todays new vehicles are equipped with dozens of sensors, collecting information about internal systems, external hazards, and driving behaviors. This data is an untapped resource for cities and transportation agencies alike. Notably, the data from these vehicles represent a virtual network that is independent of the infrastructure which is maintained and operated by the public agencies. Connected vehicle sensors provide important information related to hazardous conditions, speed variations, intersection performance, and more. This data can help agencies and cities gain more visibility on their roads, supplementing data from existing infrastructure and providing untapped transportation information from rural areas that are not served by ITS infrastructure. New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve many users who could not afford the cost, or adapt to the restrictions of, conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions and municipalities that are testing vehicle recognition systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of vehicle recognition sensors. We also expect the availability of faster, higher-accuracy, lower-cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. Adaptability of the Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy, affordability and ability to capture additional vehicle data will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. Based on published benchmarks, our software currently outperforms competitors. However, large users of existing technology, such as toll road operators, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop their own or secure advanced vehicle recognition systems from others who are also working to develop them. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. 35 Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We expect contactless compliance programs to be expanded as the types of vehicle related violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where it is and is not beneficial. We believe that future legislation will increasingly allow for automated enforcement of regulations such as motor vehicle insurance requirements. Communities are currently searching for better means of achieving compliance with minor vehicle offenses, such as lapsed registrations, and safety issues such as motorists who fail to stop for school buses. For example, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states are considering authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. To the extent that legislative implementation is required, a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process is involved. However, as states expand auto enforcement, the market for our products and services should broaden in the public safety market. Graphic Processing Unit ( GPU ) Improvements We expect our business to benefit from more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognition. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in the adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. Edge Processing Demand for actionable roadway information continues to grow in parallel with camera resolutions. Over the last several decades, cameras have evolved and unlocked new capabilities with each advancement. Further, cellular networks have been optimized for downloading data rather than uploading data. As a result, while download speeds have improved significantly due to large investments in cellular infrastructure, this has resulted in relatively small improvements to cellular upload speeds. With roadside deployments experiencing explosive growth in count and density, scalability, latency and bandwidth have become aspects of competition in the market. Our systems have been designed to address these issues through the use of more effective edge processing, enabled both by incorporating the increasingly effective new GPUs into our systems and continual improvements in the efficiency of our AI algorithms. Our edge processing systems ingest local HD video streams at the source and convert the raw video data to text data, dramatically reducing the volume of data that needs to be transferred through the network. Edge processing allows us to scale a network dramatically without the bandwidth, cost, latency and dependability limitations that are experienced by other networks where raw video needs to be streamed to the cloud for processing. Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a visible leadership position. As a result, we have accelerated our business development marketing and eCommerce activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our new technology and products within the market. We anticipate that an increased presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will significantly reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree to which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. COVID 19 - The spread of a novel strain of COVID-19 around the world since the first quarter of 2020 has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets. Despite the roll-out of vaccinations, there continues to be significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies. As such, we are unable to determine the full impact on our operations. However, we have also seen a positive impact of COVID-19 on the technology sector, in which we are competing. The pandemic has accelerated the adoption of new technologies by businesses. According to a McKinsey Global Survey of executives, their companies have accelerated the digitization of their customer and supply-chain interactions and their internal operations by three to four years. Funding for digital initiatives has increased, creating opportunities for innovative solution providers such as Rekor. 36 Pressure on Government Budgets COVID-19 has caused significant strain on government budgets. With less money to spend and more need for resources, government agencies need affordable, effective, and scalable solutions for revenue recovery and discovery. With subscription pricing and an intelligent infrastructure platform that accomplishes multiple agency missions, we are uniquely positioned to provide agencies with force-multiplying tools when money and human resources are limited. Agencies can be better positioned to improve public safety, manage resources more effectively, and make an impact on their citizen's quality of life with limited capital expenditure. In addition, states adopting contactless compliance programs may be able to garner significant net cash contributions to their annual budgets while reducing the number of non-compliant vehicles on their roadways. Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act ( IIJA ) - The IIJA , signed into law on November 15, 2021, provides for significant national investments in the transportation systems in the United States, including over $150 billion in new spending on roadway infrastructure, including intelligent transportation systems. We believe that our comprehensive offering of solutions positions the Company well to emerge as a technology leader in the expanded market for intelligent infrastructure that will benefit from this legislation. We have identified opportunities to access federal funding streams, and we are working to implement a program that capitalizes on this unprecedented U.S. federal investment in public safety, homeland security, and transportation infrastructure and ensures that our customers are positioned to capture as much of this extraordinary government spending as possible. Beyond the many recurring federal grant programs that could support customer purc hases, and the $350 billion in American Rescue Plan Act allocations that public agencies are receiving now, we are particularly excited about the prospect of engaging in the following new funding streams that are contained in the IIJA. $200 million annually for a Safe Streets and Roads for All program that would make competitive grants for state projects that significantly reduce or eliminate transportation-related fatalities. $150 million for the department to establish a grant program to modernize state data collection systems $500 mi llion for the Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Grant Program that would support demonstration projects on smart technologies that improve transportation efficiency and safety Other than as discussed above and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any trends, events or uncertainties that are likely to have a material effect on our financial condition. Components of Operating Results Revenues We derive revenues substantially from the sale of software, hardware and related services. Software sales include subscriptions for the use of our software as a service (SaaS) and software licenses. SaaS revenues are treated as recurring revenue and provided both through negotiated agreements with larger governmental and commercial customers and through subscriptions from smaller customers. License sales are typically term agreements, including agreements for perpetual licenses, that may include maintenance obligations for software updates that keep up with changes in vehicle models and license plate designs. Hardware is sold through direct sales or subscriptions and is typically sold with a software subscription or license arrangement. Revenue from direct sales is generally recognized when the hardware is delivered, or installation is completed in accordance with the terms of the contract. Subscription revenues may include hardware and software subscriptions and are recognized as recurring revenue throughout the term of the lease agreement. Our related services include customer support and implementation services, as well as management services such as violation notices, billing and collections, website portals and call centers related to programs that employ our software solutions. In addition, we engage in pilot programs with governmental and commercial entities that include extension or renewal features that may result in recurring revenues and/or additional point in time revenues at the completion of the pilot program. Costs of revenues, excluding depreciation and amortization Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, data subscriptions, sub-consultant services and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue-generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when incurred. 37 Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing, research and development and depreciation and amortization. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expenses. Operating expenses also include depreciation, amortization and impairment of assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include office leases, professional fees and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the costs associated with our growth and the costs of accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. However, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We intend to make significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to grow revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our customer base. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our AI solutions. However, we expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses are primarily attributable to our capital investments and consist of fixed asset depreciation, amortization of right-of-use assets, amortization of intangibles considered to have definite lives, and amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs. 38 Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists primarily of interest expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, gains or losses on the sale of fixed assets, and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and note receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. 39 Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars are presented below. The analysis of operation is solely related to continuing operations and does not consider the results of discontinued operations. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the foregoing information contained in this Item 7 and with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Only historical operating results are presented below. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 Revenue $ 14,294 $ 9,234 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 6,236 3,518 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 22,955 10,278 Selling and marketing expenses 4,474 2,140 Research and development expenses 8,292 3,185 Depreciation and amortization 3,552 1,961 Total operating expenses 39,273 17,564 Loss from operations (31,215 ) (11,848 ) Other income (expense): Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt 886 (3,281 ) Interest expense (89 ) (2,503 ) Gain on the sale of business - 3,631 Other income (expense), net (28 ) 62 Total other income (expense) 769 (2,091 ) Loss before income taxes (30,446 ) (13,939 ) Income tax benefit (provision) 3,819 (23 ) Equity in loss of investee (150 ) - Net loss from continuing operations $ (26,777 ) $ (13,962 ) 40 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Revenue $ 14,294 $ 9,234 $ 5,060 55 % The increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, was a result of additional products and programs we offered, and increases in our direct sales of existing products and programs. In 2021, we initiated services for Oklahomas UVED Program which has generated revenue of $1,282,000 during the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2021, $925,000 of revenue was attributed to Waycare. We also saw an increase, during the year ended December 31, 2021, in hardware sales and sales of perpetual software licenses to larger customers. Revenue relating to the delivery of the hardware and perpetual licenses was recognized as point in time revenue, while revenue relating to the software subscriptions and future maintenance services will be recognized as recurring revenue over the remaining life of the sales or licensing agreements. Cost of Revenue, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization $ 6,236 $ 3,518 $ 2,718 77 % For the year ended December 31, 2021, cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization increased compared to the corresponding prior periods primarily due to an increase in personnel and other direct costs that were incurred to support our increase in revenue. 41 Operating Expenses Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 22,955 $ 10,278 $ 12,677 123 % Selling and marketing expenses 4,474 2,140 2,334 109 % Research and development expenses 8,292 3,185 5,107 160 % Depreciation and amortization 3,552 1,961 1,591 81 % Total operating expenses $ 39,273 $ 17,564 $ 21,709 124 % General and Administrative Expenses The increase general and administrative expenses of $12,677,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to a $6,065,000 increase in personnel costs related to an increase in headcount, including a $2,309,000 increase in stock-based compensation. Additionally, we saw increase in professional fees of $4,290,000, including $2,025,000 related to one-time fees associated with merger and acquisition transactions. Selling and Marketing Expenses The increase of $2,334,000 in selling and marketing expenses during the year is attributable mainly to increased marketing efforts to promote our products and services including digital marketing and other sales efforts. In connection with these efforts, there was an increase in staffing to support the Companys growth plan which led to a $1,170,000 increase in personnel costs, including a $168,000 increase in stock-based compensation. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2021, we saw an increase in advertising expenses of $474,000. Research and Development Expense The increase in research and development expenses of $5,107,000 during the year was primarily attributable to the development of new products and additional software capabilities, mainly as a result of an increase in headcount and hours associated with research and development activities. In the current year, there was an increase in staffing to support the Companys new products which led to a $4,777,000 increase in personnel costs, including a $595,000 increase in stock-based compensation. Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization during the year is attributable primarily to increased technology-based intangible assets that were acquired as part of our acquisition of Waycare. 42 Other Income (Expense) Year ended December 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Other income (expense): Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt $ 886 $ (3,281 ) $ 4,167 127 % Interest expense (89 ) (2,503 ) 2,414 96 % Gain on the sale of business - 3,631 (3,631 ) -100 % Other income (expense), net (28 ) 62 (90 ) -145 % Total other income (expense) $ 769 $ (2,091 ) $ 2,860 137 % The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 is due to the staged retirement of the 2019 Promissory notes in 2020. The gain on the extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2021 , was related to the forgiveness of the PPP loans. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred a loss on extinguishment of debt related to fees associated with the early extinguishment of the principal balance of our 2019 Promissory Notes. In connection with the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal, we recognized a gain on the sale of the business of $3,631,000 during the year ended December 31, 2020. Income Tax Expense The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2021 , was $3,819,000 , which is due primarily to the step-up in the basis of intangible assets related to the Waycare acquisition, as compared to tax expense of $23,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 . We established a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2017 and have continued to maintain a full valuation allowance through the year ended December 31, 2021 . 43 Non-GAAP Measures EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, (v) losses associated with equity method investments, (vi) merger and acquisition transaction costs and (vii) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 Net loss from continuing operations $ (26,777 ) $ (13,962 ) Income tax (benefit) provision (3,819 ) 23 Interest expense 89 2,503 Depreciation and amortization 3,552 1,961 EBITDA $ (26,955 ) $ (9,475 ) (Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt $ (886 ) $ 3,281 Share-based compensation 3,909 796 Gain on sale of business - (3,631 ) Loss due to change in value of equity investments 150 - Merger and acquisition transaction costs 2,025 - Adjusted EBITDA $ (21,757 ) $ (9,029 ) 44 Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin Adjusted Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure that we define as revenue less cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization. We define Adjusted Gross Margin as our Adjusted Gross Profit divided by our revenue. We expect Adjusted Gross Margin to continue to improve over time to the extent that we can gain efficiencies through the adoption of our technology and successfully cross-selling and upselling our current and future offerings. However, our ability to improve Adjusted Gross Margin overtime is not guaranteed and could be impacted by the factors affecting our performance. We believe Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin are useful to investors, as they eliminate the impact of certain non-cash expenses and allow a direct comparison of these measures between periods without the impact of non-cash expenses and certain other nonrecurring operating expenses. The following table sets forth the components of the Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin for the periods included: Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 (Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 14,294 $ 9,234 Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization 6,236 3,518 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 8,058 $ 5,716 Adjusted Gross Margin 56.4 % 61.9 % Adjusted Gross Margin, for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased to 56.4% from 61.9% for the year ended December 31, 2020. The fluctuation in Adjusted Gross Margin was driven primarily by our mix of software and hardware sales. Software sales carry a higher margin than hardware sales as there are fewer costs associated with software sales. However, hardware sales are typically associated with performance obligations that will provide higher margin recurring revenue in the future. Additionally, as part of our planned go-to-market strategy, we offer our customers short-term pilot programs which range from three to six months. Our pilot programs generally have lower margins due to additional upfront costs we incur to establish the program, which will not be incurred again if the pilot program is converted into a long-term program. 45 Key Performance Indicators We regularly review several indicators, including the following key indicators, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. Since much of our revenue from hardware sales is associated with future recurring revenues from subscriptions and maintenance fees, we expect the percentage of our revenue that is associated with point-in-time hardware sales to gradually decline in relation to recurring revenues. Recurring Revenue The growth of our recurring revenue provides some insights into our future operating results and cash flow from operations. This enables us to better manage and invest in our business. Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 Change $ % Recurring revenue $ 4,634 $ 3,616 $ 1,018 28 % We continue to focus on long-term contracts with recurring revenue as part of our business model. This model emphasizes the importance of securing geographic coverage in connection with one customer solution so that additional products and services can be provided more efficiently through the same network infrastructure. We expect recurring revenue growth in future periods to continue to increase as we move to market our suite of products through the Rekor One platform. Total Contract Value The total contract value of contracts won in the current period also provides us some visibility into our future operating results and cash flows from operations. Total contract value is a non-GAAP measure in which there are certain assumptions that we make when determining the total contract value of an agreement, such as the success rate of renewal periods, cancellations and usage estimates. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we won contracts valued at $8,936,000 , compared to $6,613,000 of contracts won for the year ended December 31, 2020. This growth represents a $2,323,000 or 35% growth, period over period. Performance Obligations While a portion of the total contract value won in a particular period represents point-in-time revenue or recurring revenue earned during the period, the remainder represents future performance obligations that can provide insights into the growth of our revenues. As of December 31, 2021, we had appro ximately $22,587,000 of performance obligations with respect to contracts that were closed prior to December 31, 2021 but have a contractual period beyond December 31, 2021 . This represents growth of $5,882,000 or 35% compared to $16,705,000 of performance obligations as of December 31, 2020. These contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately 41% of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following four years. On occasion, our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the contract related to the performance obligation for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. 46 Lease Obligations As of December 31, 2021 , we leased building space at the following locations in the U.S.: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Linthicum, Maryland Orlando, Florida Tel Aviv, Israel Los Angeles, California We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We expect to improve, replace and increase facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our planned operations. 47 Liquidity and Capital Resources The net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods below were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities - continuing operations $ (18,028 ) $ (11,175 ) $ (6,853 ) -61 % Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities - continuing operations (47,367 ) 4,588 (51,955 ) -1132 % Net cash provided by financing activities - continuing operations 70,992 25,447 45,545 179 % Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents - continuing operations $ 5,597 $ 18,860 $ (13,263 ) -70 % Net cash used in operating activities continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2021, had a net decrease of $6,853,000, which was attributable to the increase in the loss from continuing operations of $12,815,000. This amount was partially offset by an increase in share-based compensation expense, a non-cash adjustment, which increase d by $3,113,000 to $3,909,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $796,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2021, there was a non-cash adjustment of $3,819,000 related to an income tax benefit that was primarily due to the step up in basis of the identified definite-lived intangible asset related to technology acquired as part of the acquisition of Waycare. This increase is due to the number of shares that were issued as well as the increase in our stock price. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2020, there was a $3,631,000 gain on the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal. The gain on the sale is shown as a decrease in cash flow from operations and an increase in cash flow from investing activities to reflect the nature of the transactions. The net increase in net cash used in investing activities continuing operations of $51,955,000 was primarily due to the net cash outlay in relation to the acquisition of Waycare of $39,770,000 and the $1,250,000 SAFE investment in Roker. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company's capital expenditures increased by $5,235,000 compared to the prior period. The increase in capital expenditures, period over period, was related to supporting the Company's go-to-market strategy. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was primarily due to the cash proceeds of the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal. Net cash provided by financing activities continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2021, increased $45,545,000 from the prior year ended December 31, 2020. In the current year, through our 2021 Public Offering, we received net proceeds, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us, of $70,125,000. For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 , we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities from our subsidiaries, issuance of debt, the sale of our subsidiaries and the sale of equity. As of December 31, 2021 , we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations of $25,796,000 and working capital of $16,989,000, as compared to unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $20,595,000 and working capital of $18,324,000 as of December 31, 2020 . Management believes that based on relevant conditions and events that are known and reasonably knowable, its current forecasts and projections, for one year from the date of the filing of the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, indicate the Companys ability to continue operations as a going concern for that one-year period. 48 Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources or capital expenditures. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of our operations is based upon our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required therein, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are periodically reevaluated, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Rekor bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the management of Rekor believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form managements basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that may not be readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, or if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 Business and Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition The Company derives its revenues primarily from Software as a Service (SaaS), subscriptions, customer support services, contactless compliance solutions, implementation services, perpetual license sales and the sale of hardware in connection with its software solutions. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to the Companys customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products and services. To determine revenue recognition for arrangements that the Company determines are within the scope of ASC 606, the Company performs the following five steps: Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer Identification of the performance obligations in the contract Determination of the transaction price Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract Recognition of revenue when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied 49 Revenues Recurring revenue Recurring revenue includes the Companys SaaS revenue, subscription revenue, eCommerce revenue and customer support revenue. The Company generates recurring revenue from long-term contracts with customers that provide periodic payments and short-term contracts that are automatically invoiced on a monthly basis. The Companys recurring revenue is generated by a combination of direct sales, partner-assisted sales, and eCommerce sales. Recurring revenues are generated through the Companys SaaS model, where the Company provides customers with the right to access the Companys software solutions for a fee. These services are made available to the customer continuously throughout the contractual period. However, the extent to which the customer uses the services may vary at the customers discretion. The Company's contracts with customers are generally for a term of one to five years. The payment for SaaS solutions may be received either at the inception of the arrangement or over the term of the arrangement. These SaaS solutions are considered to have a single performance obligation where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit, and as such, we recognize revenue for these arrangements ratably over the term of the contractual agreement. The Company also currently receives recurring revenues under contracts entered into using a subscription model for bundled hardware and software over a period. Payments for these services and subscriptions are received periodically over the term of the agreement and revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. In addition, some of our subscription revenue includes providing, through a web server, access to the Companys software solutions, a self-managed database, and a cross-platform application programming interface. The subscription arrangements with these customers typically do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of the Companys software at any time. Instead, customers are granted continuous access to the Companys solutions over the contractual period. The Companys subscription services arrangements are non-cancelable and do not contain refund-type provisions. Accordingly, any fixed consideration related to the arrangement is generally recognized as recurring revenue on a straight-line basis over the contract term beginning on the date access to the Companys software is provided. eCommerce revenue is defined by the Company as revenue obtained through direct sales on the Companys eCommerce platform. The Companys eCommerce revenue generally includes subscriptions to the Companys vehicle recognition software which can be purchased online and activated through a digital key. The Company's contracts with customers are generally for a term of one month with automatic renewal each month. The Company invoices and receives fees from its customers monthly. Customer support revenue is associated with perpetual licenses and long-term subscription arrangements and consists primarily of technical support and product updates. The Companys customer support team is ready to provide these maintenance services, as needed, to the customer during the contract term. The customer benefits evenly throughout the contract period from the guarantee that the customer support resources and personnel will be available to them. As customer support is not critical to the customers' ability to derive benefit from their right to use the Companys software, customer support is considered a distinct performance obligation when sold together with a long-term license for software. Customer support for perpetual and term licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer. Customer support for subscription licenses is renewable concurrently with such licenses for the same duration of time. Revenue for customer support is recognized ratably over the contract period based on the start and end dates of the customer support obligation, in line with how the Company believes services are provided. Product and service revenue Product and service revenue is defined as the Companys contactless compliance revenue, implementation revenue, perpetual license sales and hardware sales. Contactless compliance solutions revenues reflect arrangements to provide traffic safety systems to several jurisdictions in North America. These systems include hardware that identifies red light and school safety zone traffic violations and software that captures and records forensic images and analyzes the images to provide data and supports citation management services. In the first quarter of 2021, the Company launched a new service offering for the State of Oklahoma to support its Uninsured Vehicle Enforcement Diversion (UVED) Program. Rekor provides hardware, software and services to identify uninsured motor vehicles, notify owners of non-compliance and assist them in obtaining the required insurance as an alternative to traditional enforcement methods. Revenue is recognized monthly based on the number of citations collected by the relevant jurisdiction. Implementation revenue is recognized when the Company provides pilot programs to customers. Pilot programs may involve a one-time fee for a defined period in which the customer can use the Companys software in connection with a previously installed camera network or connected vehicle data. At the end of the pilot program, the customer can convert from a pilot program to a subscription model which has a typical term between one and five years. The Companys pilot program revenue is recognized at various stages of completion. In addition to the recurring software sales, the Company will recognize revenue related to the sale of perpetual software licenses. The Company sells perpetual licenses which provide customers the right to use software for an indefinite period in exchange for a one-time license fee, which is generally paid at contract inception. The Companys perpetual licenses provide a right to use intellectual property (IP) that is functional in nature and have significant stand-alone functionality. Accordingly, for perpetual licenses of functional IP, revenue is recognized at the point-in-time when the customer has access to the software, which normally occurs once software activation keys have been made available to the customer. The Company generates revenue through the sale of hardware through its partner program distribution channels. The Company satisfies its performance obligation upon the transfer of control of hardware to its customers. The Company invoices end-user customers upon transfer of control of the hardware to its customers. The Company offers hardware installment to customers which ranges from one to six months. The revenue related to the installation component is recognized at various stages of completion. 50 Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are customer obligations due under normal trade terms. We perform continuing credit evaluations of our clients financial condition, and we generally do not require collateral. Management reviews accounts receivable to determine if any receivables will potentially be uncollectible. Factors considered in the determination include, among other factors, the number of days an invoice is past due, client historical trends, available credit rating information, other financial data and the overall economic environment. Collection agencies may also be used if management so determines. We record an allowance for doubtful accounts based on specifically identified amounts that are believed to be uncollectible. We also record as an additional allowance a certain percentage of aged accounts receivable, based on historical experience and our assessment of the general financial conditions affecting its customer base. If actual collection experience changes, revisions to the allowance may be required. After all reasonable attempts to collect an account receivable have failed, the amount of the receivable is written off against the allowance. Goodwill The excess purchase consideration over the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized but rather subject to a periodic impairment testing on an annual basis. The Company will assess goodwill for impairment annually on October 1st of each year, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired, by comparing its carrying value to the reporting units fair value. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had not recognized any impairment to goodwill. Business Combination Management conducts a valuation analysis on the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date thereof. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, the Company may record adjustments to the fair value of these tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances are initially established in connection with a business combination as of the acquisition date. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Companys consolidated statements of operations. Amounts paid for acquisitions are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The Company allocates a portion of the purchase price to the fair value of identifiable intangible assets. The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on a detailed valuation that uses information and assumptions provided by management. The Company allocates any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired to goodwill. Income Taxes We use the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in the authoritative guidance for accounting for income taxes. This method requires an asset and liability approach for the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Management has evaluated the recoverability of the net deferred income tax assets and the level of the valuation allowance required with respect to such net deferred income tax assets. After considering all available facts, we fully reserved for our net deferred tax assets because management believes that it is more likely than not that their benefits will not be realized in future periods. We will continue to evaluate net deferred tax assets to determine whether any changes in circumstances could affect the realization of their future benefit. If it is determined in future periods that portions of the net deferred income tax assets satisfy the realization standard, the valuation allowance will be reduced accordingly. The tax effects of uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial statements only if the position is more likely than not to be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. For tax positions meeting the more likely than not threshold, the amount recognized in the consolidated financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized. It is our accounting policy to account for Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740-10-25-related penalties and interest as a component of the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2021 , and 2020 , our evaluation revealed no uncertain tax positions that would have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. The 2018 through 2020 tax years remain subject to examination by the IRS, as of December 31, 2021 . 51 Liquidity and Management s Plan For all annual and interim periods, management will assess going concern uncertainty in the Companys consolidated financial statements to determine whether there is sufficient cash on hand and working capital, including available borrowings on loans, to operate for a period of at least one year from the date the consolidated financial statements are issued, which is referred to as the look-forward period, as defined in U.S. GAAP. As part of this assessment, based on conditions that are known and reasonably knowable to management, management will consider various scenarios, forecasts, projections and estimates and will make certain key assumptions. These assumptions include, among other factors, its ability to raise additional capital, if necessary, the expected timing and nature of the Companys programs and projected cash expenditures and its ability to delay or curtail these programs or expenditures to the extent management has the proper authority to do so and considers it probable that those implementations can be achieved within the look-forward period. The Company has generated losses since its inception and has relied on cash on hand, external bank lines of credit, the sale of a note, proceeds from the sale of common stock, proceeds from the private sale of the Companys non-core subsidiaries, proceeds from note receivables, debt financings and a public offering of its common stock to support cash flow from operations. The Company attributes losses to non-capital expenditures related to the scaling of existing products, development of new products and service offerings and marketing efforts associated with these products and services. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company had a net loss from continuing operati ons of $26,777,000 and working capital of $16,989,000 . The Company's net cash position was increased b y $5,592,000 fo r the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to the net proceeds of $70,125,000 from the completion of the 2021 Public Offering . This amount was offset by the net cash outlay of $39,770,000 in connection with the acquisition of Waycare . Management believes that based on relevant conditions and events that are known and reasonably knowable, its current forecasts and projections, for one year from the date of the filing of the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, indicate the Companys ability to continue operations as a going concern for that one-year period. The Company is actively monitoring its operations, the cash on hand and working capital. Should access to funds be unavailable, the Company will need to seek out additional sources of funding. On February 24, 2022, the Company entered into an At-the-Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the 2022 Sales Agreement) with B. Riley Securities, Inc. (the Agent) to create an at the market equity program under which the Company from time to time may offer and sell shares of its common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $50,000,000 through or to the Agent. Furthermore, the Company has contingency plans to reduce or defer expenses and cash outlays should operations weaken in the look-forward period or additional financing, if needed, is not available. The Company's ability to generate positive operating results and complete the execution of its business strategy will depend on (i) its ability to continue the growth of its technology business, (ii) the continued performance of its contractors, subcontractors and vendors, (iii) its ability to maintain and build good relationships with its lenders and financial intermediaries, (iv) its ability to maintain timely collections from existing customers, and (v) the stabilization of the world economy and global financial markets. To the extent that events outside of the Company's control have a significant negative impact on economic and/or market conditions, they could affect payments from customers, services and supplies from vendors, its ability to continue to secure and implement new business, raise capital, and otherwise, depending on the severity of such impact, materially adversely affect its operating results. New Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Business and Significant Accounting Policies 52