ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve substantial risks and uncertainties including particularly statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, prospective products and services, timing and likelihood of success, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and future results of current and anticipated products and services. These statements involve uncertainties, such as known and unknown risks, and are dependent on other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements we express or imply. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions described under the sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Specific factors that might cause actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to: significant risks, uncertainties and other considerations discussed in this report; operating risks, including supply chain, equipment or system failures, cyber and other malicious attacks and other events that could affect the amounts and timing of revenues and expenses; 31 reputational risks affecting customer confidence or willingness to do business with us; financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts; our ability to successfully identify, integrate and complete acquisitions and dispositions; our ability to access the public markets for debt or equity capital; political, legal, regulatory, governmental, administrative and economic conditions and developments in the United States (U.S.) and other countries in which we operate and, in particular, the impact of recent and future federal, state and local regulatory proceedings and changes, including legislative and regulatory initiatives associated with our products; current and future litigation; competition from other companies with an established position in the markets we enter or who are seeking to enter markets we already serve; our failure to successfully develop products using our technology that are accepted by the markets we serve or intend to serve or the development of new technologies that change the nature of our business or provide our customers with products or services superior to or less expensive than ours; the inability of our strategic plans and goals to expand our geographic markets, customer base and product and service offerings; risks associated with pandemics and other global health emergencies, such as the spread of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) around the world since the first quarter of 2020 which has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets and has created significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies; and risks associated with cyberattacks on international, national, local and Company information infrastructure by rogue businesses or criminal elements or by agents of governments engaged in asymmetric disruptions for competitive, economic, or military reasons. Investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein. Other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change in the future. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 (the 2020 Annual Report) and any updates contained herein as well as those set forth in our reports and other filings made with the SEC. 32 General Overview We are a leader in the emerging market for intelligent roadway systems developed to take advantage of recent advances in artificial intelligence ("AI"). We have developed advanced vehicle recognition systems that can extract more accurate and complete data from existing cameras and sensors. Our systems have also been designed to take full advantage of the latest technological advances in new cameras and sensors, edge processing, and cloud computing. We have also developed platforms that enable the data our systems collect to be analyzed in combination with other sources and distributed to multiple end users in real time as actionable intelligence or data collected for long range planning purposes in full compliance with the security and privacy requirements of each end user. These capabilities are particularly useful to governmental entities and businesses in solving a wide variety of real-world vehicle-related operational challenges. Our ability to enhance the results provided by existing Internet Protocol (IP) connected cameras has enabled significant new uses for vehicle recognition technology that were not previously available or cost effective. We currently provide products and services for governmental organizations and large and small businesses throughout the world. Customers currently use our products or services in approximately 80 countries in applications that include public safety, transportation, parking, security, customer experience, operational efficiency and logistics. Our continuing operations are conducted by our wholly owned subsidiary, Rekor Recognition Systems, Inc. (Rekor Recognition). In connection with the development of several new public safety products, we acquired substantially all the assets of OpenALPR Technology, Inc. in March 2019. This acquisition (the OpenALPR Technology Acquisition) transferred vehicle recognition software and associated licenses and proprietary rights to OpenALPR Software Solutions, LLC (OpenALPR), a new wholly owned subsidiary of Rekor Recognition. OpenALPRs vehicle recognition platform, already operating on approximately 6,800 cameras in approximately 80 countries worldwide that cover approximately 14,000 lanes of roadway, has laid the groundwork for expansion, enabling multiple deployment mechanisms for our products and services. Since the Open ALPR Technology Acquisition, our engineering teams have worked continuously to expand and refine the Open ALPR platform. In October 2020, we announced the launch of Rekor One, an advanced platform that serves as a unifying source of roadway intelligence for multiple government agencies across cities, counties and states. The Rekor One platform supports multiple community safety, intelligent roadway and revenue generation activities that can benefit from the use of our advanced vehicle recognition software. Rekors mission is to enable AI driven decisions by enhancing the capabilities in the governmental and commercial sectors with actionable, real-time insights. We seek to deliver these insights through an expanding software portfolio that not only addresses the challenges our customers are currently facing but empowers them to effectively deal with their evolving needs. Our core vehicle recognition software currently has the capability to analyze multi-spectral images and video streams produced by nearly any IP camera and concurrently extract license plate data by state or province from approximately 80 countries, together with the vehicles make, model, color, body type and direction of travel. Our software is designed to process video streams on the edge of the network prior to posting results to the Cloud, so that users are immediately provided usable real-time information for mission critical public safety and commercial applications. When combined with speed-optimized code, parallel processing capability and best-in-class hardware accessories, such as cameras and communications modules, the software captures license plate data and vehicle characteristics at extremely high vehicle speeds with a high degree of accuracy, even in unusually difficult conditions, such as low lighting, poor weather, extreme camera viewing angles, and obstructions. 33 Rekor One provides governments with a comprehensive vehicle intelligence system that supports multiple agency-specific missions. With Rekor One, governments can unify and flexibly expand their existing IP camera networks, while transforming them into a safe and smart multi-dimensional roadway network. Since it can interface with multiple database and operating systems, Rekor Ones industry leading features allow users to observe security and privacy protocols that are customized to the needs and requirements of each end-user department or agency, facilitating high level compliance with the latest advances in privacy and information security requirements. Rekor One is designed to permit the cost of a network to be fractionalized based on relative value to multiple end users. Each participating agency receives a unique user interface and dashboard, which draw on Rekor Ones unified vehicle recognition intelligence to provide data customized to the agencys specific needs. This eliminates redundant systems and single function applications which in turn increases efficiency and lowers costs. Prior to the development of our proprietary vehicle identification software, we believe that highly accurate results were not available using a typical IP camera. With the ability to generate more accurate results with less expensive hardware, we believe the dynamics of existing roadway and public safety markets are changing, enabling the creation of increasingly robust networks at lower cost. In addition, we expect our improvements in cost and accuracy to create competitive advantages in tolling systems and logistics operations that currently rely on more expensive and complex radio frequency identification (RFID) systems. We also expect our lower costs, superior camera reading distance and field of view capabilities, along with the ability to capture additional vehicle information, such as direction, color, make model and body type of vehicle, to open opportunities in other market segments. These opportunities include parking operations, quick service restaurants, school safety, retail customer loyalty programs and, particularly, smart cities and smart roadways. Smart roadway systems, sometimes referred to as smart mobility systems, smart transport or intelligent transport systems (ITS), inclusive of parking management and guidance, passenger information and traffic management systems, can optimize the movement of vehicles to make travel safer and more efficient. These technologies are expected to enable users to be more coordinated, better informed, and better able to manage transport networks efficiently. Recent Developments The most significant developments in our company and business since January 1, 2021 are described below: On February 26, 2021, we announced that the State of North Dakota Parks and Recreation Department selected our Rekor One solution to help state park leadership understand use patterns and plan for future needs. In February 2021, we completed an underwritten public offering of 6,126,939 shares of common stock of the Company at a price to the public of $12.25 per share. We received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $75.1 million from the offering, prior to deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us. We intend to use these proceeds to increase our product development, sales and marketing efforts and to consider strategic partnerships and acquisitions in our target markets. As a result of the offering, all of our Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock automatically converted into 899,174 shares of our common stock. In addition, on February 9, 2021, we issued 517,611 shares of our common stock, due to the automatic conversion of 240,861 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, as a result of the volume weighted share price of our common stock exceeding certain thresholds. These automatic conversions resulted in the retirement of all of our outstanding preferred shares. On January 7, 2021, we announced that the State of Oklahoma had integrated our Rekor One platform across relevant state systems to provide vehicle information associated with uninsured motorists as part of the states Uninsured Vehicle Enforcement Diversion (UVED) Program, which is operated by the Oklahoma District Attorneys Council. Oklahomas UVED Program uses our vehicle recognition technology to leverage existing state resources to ensure that all drivers have at least the minimum required amount of liability insurance, ultimately leading to safer roadways. The platform allows for real-time detection of non-compliant vehicles and instant data consolidation into a regularly updating insurance system connected to the states enforcement and intervention programs. We assist Oklahoma drivers by providing a one-stop web portal for uninsured motorists to easily find non-standard and standard insurance for their vehicle. With the successful implementation of Oklahomas UVED Program, we have now established a leading position in the implementation of an innovative program now under active consideration by a number of other states. Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties We look to identify the various trends, market cycles, uncertainties and other factors that may provide us with opportunities and present challenges that impact our operations and financial condition from time to time. Although there are many that we may not or cannot foresee, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by the following: AI for the Roadway We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of roadway conditions will significantly affect vehicular travel in the future by assisting in the intelligent optimization of traffic flows and the identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way vehicles, stopped vehicles, or/and pedestrian on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can also benefit from rapid, lower cost identification of existing and potential customers in streamlining and accelerating vehicular flow. 34 Graphic Processing Unit (GPU) Improvements We expect our business to benefit as a result of more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognitions. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. Edge Processing Demand for actionable roadway information continues to grow in parallel with camera resolutions. Over the last several decades, cameras have evolved from 25K pixels to 8.3 million pixels and beyond, with each advancement unlocking new capabilities thereby fueling growth. Further, cellular networks are optimized for downloading data not for uploading data, and while speeds have improved over time, what amounts to large infrastructure changes has resulted in relatively small improvements to cellular upload speeds. With road-side deployments experiencing explosive growth in count and density, scalability has become an obstacle for competition in the market. All of these factors mean that scalability, latency and bandwidth concerns require edge processing which are enabled by the continued growth of the increasingly effective graphic processing units and continual improvements in efficiency of our AI algorithms. Edge processing ingests local high definition (HD) video streams and converts the raw video data to text data, thus reducing the volume of data that needs to be transferred. Edge processing allows massive scale without the bandwidth, cost, latency and dependability limitations that would be experienced with a streaming to the cloud solution. Adaptability of the Current ALPR Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy, affordability and ability to capture additional vehicle data will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. Based on published benchmarks, our software currently outperforms competitors in almost every metric. However, large users of existing ALPR technology, such as toll roads, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop or secure their own advanced vehicle recognition systems. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve a number of users who could not afford the cost or adapt to, the restrictions of conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions and municipalities that are testing ALPR systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of ALPR cameras. We also expect the availability of faster, higher accuracy, lower cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. We do not currently have the resources to develop all of these entirely new markets by ourselves, so we will need to rely on affiliations with other partners, who may or may not realize the significant benefits that we envision from these new uses. Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We believe that future legislation will allow for automated enforcement of motor vehicle regulations, including insurance requirements, to be expanded as the types of violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where automated enforcement is beneficial. For example, there are now 17 states that allow for the automatic enforcement of violations by vehicles that pass a school bus displaying its flashing red lights and a stop sign. In addition, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states are considering authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. Legislative implementation is a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process. However, as states expand auto enforcement, the market for our products and services should increase and broaden in the public safety market. Increasing Smart City Market Nokia has approved the use of our OpenALPR software for its smart city offerings. In the smart cities market, real-time vehicle recognition technologies are widely used for traffic management and public safety. As a result, we expect to benefit from the growth of this market. Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a leadership position. As a result, we have accelerated our business development marketing and eCommerce activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our new technology and products within the market. We anticipate that an increased presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will significantly reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree of which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. Sales Cycle As many of our products are new to market, their acceptance and integration into the intended markets is uncertain and we do not have sufficient historical experience to accurately predict revenues as a result of their implementation. 35 COVID 19 - The spread of a novel strain of COVID-19 around the world since the first quarter of 2020 has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets. There is significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies and, as such, we are unable to determine the full impact to our operations. Pressure on Government Budgets In addition to the COVID-19 crisis crippling businesses revenues, it has caused significant strain on government budgets. With less money to spend and more need for resources, government agencies need affordable, effective, and scalable solutions for revenue recovery and discovery. With subscription pricing and a roadway intelligence platform that accomplishes multiple agency missions from a single camera source, we are uniquely positioned to provide agencies force-multiplying tools when money and man-power are limited. Agencies can be better positioned to identify vehicle registration fee avoidance, enforce parking regulations and find scofflaws, aid motorists in acquiring valid insurance, and dynamically price tolls based on traffic flow. In addition, states adopting UVED programs may be able to garner significant net cash contributions to their annual budgets while reducing the number of uninsured vehicles on their roadways. Unifying Source of Roadway Intelligence with Rekor One - The Rekor One platform will support multiple community safety, intelligent roadway and revenue generation activities. Rekor One will provide government agencies with a comprehensive vehicle intelligence system that supports multiple agency-specific missions. With Rekor One, governments will be able to leverage their existing IP cameras and transform them into a safe and smart multi-dimensional intelligent roadway network. By interfacing with multiple databases and operating systems, Rekor One can allow governmental units to observe security and privacy protocols and fractionalize costs based on relative end user value. Each participating agency receives a unique user interface and dashboard, which draws on Rekor Ones unified vehicle recognition intelligence to provide data customized to the agencys specific needs. This will eliminate redundant systems and single function applications to help use public funds wisely. The platform will aid in identifying licensing and registration non-compliance, uninsured motorists and unpaid parking violations. This will allow agencies to create targeted intervention programs that result in increased safety as well as increased revenue recovery. Smart parking and permitting are also important capabilities that increase government efficiency and provide better citizen and visitor experience. As part of traffic management, Rekor One will also support advanced tolling and congestion pricing as well as parking and other fees. Increased Demand for Contactless Economy Solutions Even prior to the COVID-19 crisis, efficient, touch-free shopping experiences were becoming increasingly present. Now moving beyond simple tap-to-pay credit card functionality, we can offer businesses such as retail and quick service restaurants the ability to have customers pay-by-plate for a complete contactless experience for curbside pick-up or drive-thru transactions. Pay-by-plate functionality not only keeps customers and employees safe, but it also accelerates service time as the technology fully integrates with existing point of sale (POS) and customer loyalty systems. Necessity for On-Demand Mobile Solutions With app downloads increasing exponentially year-over-year and over 90% of mobile phone time spent within apps, businesses require a means to leverage the ever-present smartphones of employees. By developing a first-of-its-kind iOS and Android app that can read license plates on-device, we can provide businesses an affordable way to scale by using existing devices as license plate recognition sensors. Now businesses can efficiently manage visitors, streamline parking operations, enhance campus/event security, and even recover costly assets. American Jobs Plan (AJP) - Through the AJP, President Biden is calling on Congress to make a national investment in the transit systems in the United States. As originally proposed, the plan calls for investing over $2 trillion during the next eight years. The plan estimates that there is a backlog of up to $1 trillion in needed repairs for roads, bridges, rail and other components of the United States transit system and notes that the United States has one of the highest traffic fatality rates in the industrialized world. Estimating that delays caused by traffic congestion alone cost over $160 billion per year and that motorists are forced to pay over $1,000 every year in wasted time and fuel, the plan proposes the expenditure of $115 billion for improvements that include funding to improve air quality, limit greenhouse gas emissions, and reduce congestion, crashes and fatalities. We believe that the ability of our Rekor One platform to perform multiple missions simultaneously and cost effectively, including real time system wide traffic monitoring, revenue collection and delivery of safety, emissions and maintenance information, positions the Company well to emerge as a technology leader in this proposed transformation of the transportation infrastructure nationwide. 36 Components of Operating Results Revenues We derive our revenues substantially from license and subscription fees for software and related products and services. A portion of the subscription fees are generated through our eCommerce website rather than through in-person sales. In addition, we derive revenues in connection with certain citation and collection services in connection with UVED, automated traffic safety and parking enforcement services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products and services. If the consideration promised in the contract includes a variable amount, for example maintenance fees, we include an estimate of the amount we expect to receive for the total transaction price, if it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Costs of Revenues Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, sub-consultant services, and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when incurred. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing and research and development. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses also include depreciation, amortization and impairment of assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include office leases, professional fees and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. 37 Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We intend to make significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to grow revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our customer base. With the release of our Partners Program we expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in the future. Research and Development Research and development expenses consists of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. We expect our research and development expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our AI software. However, we expect our research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, gains or losses on the sale of fixed assets, and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and note receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions A comprehensive discussion of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions is included in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. New Accounting Pronouncement See Note 1 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 1 of this quarterly report for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 38 Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars are presented below. The results below and the analysis of operation is solely related to continuing operations and do not include results of discontinued operations from TeamGlobal, AOC Key Solutions and Firestorm. Three months ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 Revenue $ 4,216 $ 1,595 Cost of revenue 1,962 494 Gross profit 2,254 1,101 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 5,403 2,791 Selling and marketing expenses 937 371 Research and development expenses 1,222 543 Operating expenses 7,562 3,705 Loss from operations (5,308 ) (2,604 ) Other income (expense): Interest expense (32 ) (1,163 ) Other income 16 - Total other expense (16 ) (1,163 ) Loss before income taxes (5,324 ) (3,767 ) Income tax provision (3 ) (7 ) Equity in loss of investee (76 ) - Net loss from continuing operations (5,403 ) (3,774 ) Net loss from discontinued operations (3 ) (14 ) Net loss $ (5,406 ) $ (3,788 ) Comprehensive loss: Net loss from continuing operations (5,403 ) (3,774 ) Change in unrealized gain on short-term investments 2 - Total comprehensive loss from continuing operations (5,401 ) (3,774 ) Total comprehensive loss $ (5,404 ) $ (3,788 ) 39 Comparison of the Three Months ended March 31, 2021 and the Three Months ended March 31, 2020 Total Revenue Three Months ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Revenue $ 4,216 $ 1,595 $ 2,621 164 % The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, was a result of additional products and programs the Company offered, increases in our direct sales and Partners Program sales. In the first quarter of 2021, we initiated services for Oklahomas UVED Program which has issued over 25,000 notices of non-compliance and generated revenue of $245,000 revenue in the current quarter. We also had significant growth in our eCommerce revenue which is defined as revenue recognized through our eCommerce platform as well as our solutions in the tolling industry. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recognized revenues of $442,000 and $177,000, respectively, for eCommerce revenue. The remainder of the increase was attributable to increased sales of hardware and software subscriptions through our Partners Program and direct sales channels. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ or % Points % Cost of revenue $ 1,962 $ 494 $ 1,468 297 % Gross profit 2,254 1,101 1,153 105 % Gross margin 53 % 69 % -16 % -23 % For the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, the increase in gross profit was attributable to the increase in revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 the gross margin decreased to 53% from 69% for the three months ended March 31, 2020, respectively, which was attributable to the sale of hardware which occurred during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Hardware sales typically have lower margins than software sales which is why our gross margin percent decreased. Operating Expenses Three Months ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 5,403 $ 2,791 $ 2,612 94 % Selling and marketing expenses 937 371 566 153 % Research and development expenses 1,222 543 679 125 % Operating expenses $ 7,562 $ 3,705 $ 3,857 104 % 40 General and Administrative Expenses The majority of the increase to general and administrative expenses is attributable to increased headcount and equity award expenses. Additionally, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, we saw an increase in professional fees mainly associated with our merger and acquisition initiatives. Selling and Marketing Expenses The increase in selling and marketing expenses during the year is attributable mainly to increased marketing efforts to promote our products and services including digital marketing and other sales efforts. In connection with these efforts there was an increase in staffing to support the Companys growth plan. Research and Development Expense The overall increase in research and development expenses is primarily attributable to the development of new products and additional software capabilities, as a result of our increased focus on technology offerings. The increase in research and development expenses is mainly attributable to an increase in headcount and hours associated with research and development activities. Other Expense Three Months ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Other income (expense): Interest expense $ (32 ) $ (1,163 ) $ 1,131 97 % Other income 16 - 16 100 % Total other expense $ (16 ) $ (1,163 ) $ 1,147 99 % The decrease in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 is due to the retirement of the 2019 Promissory notes in 2020. Non-GAAP Measures: EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, (v) losses associated with equity method investments, (vi) merger and acquisition transaction costs and (vii) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. 41 The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Three Months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Total comprehensive loss from continuing operations $ (5,401 ) $ (3,774 ) Income taxes 3 7 Interest 32 1,163 Depreciation and amortization 614 423 EBITDA $ (4,752 ) $ (2,181 ) Share-based compensation 781 171 Loss due to change in value of equity investments 76 - One-time consulting fees 776 - Adjusted EBITDA $ (3,119 ) $ (2,010 ) Lease Obligations At March 31, 2021, we leased building space at the following locations in the U.S.: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Linthicum, Maryland Storage facility for inventory related to our technology hardware Orlando, Florida Florida implementation office We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We expect to improve, replace and increase facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our planned operations. 42 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth the components of our cash flows for the period included (dollars in thousands): Three Months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities - continuing operations $ (3,159 ) $ (2,444 ) $ (715 ) -29 % Net cash used in investing activities - continuing operations (24,420 ) (178 ) (24,242 ) -13,619 % Net cash provided by financing activities - continuing operations 70,425 2,523 67,902 2,691 % Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents - continuing operations $ 42,846 $ (99 ) $ 42,945 43,379 % Net cash used in operating activities continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021 had a net increase of $715,000, w hich was attributable to the increase in the loss from continuing operations of $1,627,000 . This amount was partially offset by an increase to share-based compensation expense, a non-cash adjustment, which increased $610,000 from $171,000 to $781,000, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The net increase in net cash used in investment activities continuing operations of $24,242,000 was primarily due to an increase in short-term investments of $23,994,000 which was invested in U.S. Treasury Bills that have maturity dates over three months but, less than a year. Net cash provided by financing activities continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased $67,902,000 from the prior three month period ended March 31, 2020. In the current year, through our Public Offering, we received net proceeds, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us, of $70,125,000. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities from our subsidiaries and the sale of equity. As of March 31, 2021, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations of $62,845,000, $23,996,000 short-term investments and working capital of $84,369,000, as compared to unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $20,595,000 and working capital of $18,324,000 as of December 31, 2020. Performance Obligations Operating assets and liabilities consist primarily of receivables from billed and unbilled services, accounts payable, accrued expenses, secured borrowing arrangements, and accrued payroll and related benefits. The volume of billings and timing of collections and payments affect these account balances. As of March 31, 2021, we had approximately $16,186,000 of contracts that were closed prior to March 31, 2021 but have a contractual period beyond March 31, 2021. These contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, in which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately 32% of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following four years. On occasion our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the contract for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. 43 We have experienced growth of 17% in the remaining value of contracts from March 31, 2020 through March 31, 2021. The table below shows the quarter by quarter growth in contract value (dollars in thousands): Public Offering On February 9, 2021, we issued and sold 6,126,939 shares of our common stock (which included 799,166 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the exercise of an overallotment option) (the Public Offering). The net proceeds to us, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by the us, were approximately $70,125,000. Series A Preferred Stock The holders of Rekor Series A Preferred Stock were entitled to quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.175 (7% per annum) per share. Dividends accrued quarterly and dividend payments for declared dividends were due within five business days following the end of a quarter. As a result of the closing of the Public Offering, all of our issued and outstanding Series A Preferred Stock was automatically converted pursuant to its terms into 899,174 shares of our common stock. Series B Preferred Stock As part of the acquisition of TeamGlobal, we issued 240,861 shares of $0.0001 par value Series B Preferred Stock. All Series B Preferred Stock was issued at a price of $10.00 per share with a conversion price of $5.00 per share. Each Series B Preferred Stock had an automatic conversion feature based on our common stock share price. The Series B Preferred Stock was entitled to quarterly cash dividends of 1.121% (4.484% per annum) per share. Dividends accrued quarterly and dividend payments for declared dividends were due within five business days following the end of a quarter. As a result of the closing of the Public Offering, all of our issued and outstanding Series B Preferred Stock was converted pursuant to its terms into 517,611 shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any material commitments for capital expenditures. 44 I TEM 3. QUANTITAIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK As a smaller reporting company as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, Rekor is not required to provide information required by this Item 3. I TEM 4.