Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Reportable Segments As part of our strategic shift, all operations related to the Professional Services segment have been classified as discontinued operations. As of January 1, 2020, we have one reportable segment. Continuing operations are all operations that previously were reported as part of the Technology Segment. Employees As of February 28, 2021, Rekor had 109 employees, of which 108 were full time and one was considered part-time. We consider our employee relations to be good. To date, we have been able to locate and engage highly qualified employees as needed and do not expect our growth efforts to be constrained by a lack of qualified personnel. We will continue to engage additional highly qualified personnel for our public safety and vehicle recognition markets. Seasonality We generate revenues from licensing and subscriptions to our and products and services. Therefore, we do not currently anticipate significant seasonality impact on our revenues. Should our penetration of tolling and other markets involving per recognition fees expand, we would expect to become more subject to seasonal traffic patterns. 15 Insurance and Risk Management We maintain insurance covering professional liability and claims involving bodily injury, property and economic loss. We consider our present limits of coverage, deductibles, and reserves to be adequate. Whenever possible, we endeavor to eliminate or reduce the risk of loss on a project through the use of quality assurance and control, risk management, workplace safety, and other similar methods. Risk management is an integral part of our project management approach for fixed-price contracts and our project execution process. We also evaluate risk through internal risk analyses in which our management reviews higher-risk projects, contracts, or other business decisions that require corporate legal and risk management approval. Regulation We are regulated in some of the fields in which we operate. When working with governmental agencies and entities, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of contracts. These laws and regulations contain terms that, among other things may require certification and disclosure of all costs or pricing data in connection with various contract negotiations. We are subject to the laws and regulations that restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes. To help ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, our employees are sometimes required to complete tailored ethics and other compliance training relevant to their position and our operations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Business We are currently not profitable, and we may be unable to become profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had a loss from continuing operations of $13,962,000. We cannot assure that we will be profitable in the future or that our financial performance will sustain a sufficient level to completely support operations. Our ability to become profitable in future periods could be impacted by government activity and regulation, economic instability and other items that are not in our control, including the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic as discussed below. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed in advance. As such, we generally are unable to reduce our expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues or increases in planned investments. In addition, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant expenses related to acquisitions and the development of new products and services. Our strategic transition to a technology based company focused on vehicle recognition systems will require us to generate sufficient new revenues from the vehicle recognition market to support our business plan while continuing to operate as a public company. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses and net losses in the future, which would make it difficult to fund operations and achieve our business plan and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have not been a leading provider of public safety products and services in the past and do not have the level of established contacts and existing business relationships that some of our competitors have. Although it is growing, our presence in the public safety, transportation and parking markets has been limited. As a result of this, although we believe our products and services have significant competitive advantages, we may encounter difficulties in establishing widespread market acceptance of our products in various markets and regions. Early successes in penetrating these markets and regions may not be able to be sustained once our ability to compete with our more established competitors comes to their attention. They may seek to develop more competitive products before their existing contracts expire, reduce prices, use to advantage their past association as a trusted provider and their superior financial and marketing resources and use other stratagems to this competitive advantage, which could significantly impact our ability to continue to grow. 16 We will need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We have experienced fluctuations in earnings and cash flows from operations from year to year. To support business growth, or if our business declines, we may need to raise additional capital to support operations, pursue acquisitions or expand our operations. Such additional capital may be raised through bank borrowings, or other debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, and such additional financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to increase revenue, reduce net losses or generate net income; market acceptance of our services, and the overall level of sales of our services; our need to respond to technological advancements and our competitors introductions of new products, services or technologies; our ability to control costs; promptness of customer payments; our ability to successfully negotiate arrangements with credit providers; and enhancements to subsidiaries infrastructure and systems. If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, or we may be forced to sell assets at prices below their stated value. If we experience declining or flat revenues and fail to manage such declines effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plans and may experience future weaknesses in operating results. To achieve future growth, we will need to continue to add additional qualified personnel and invest in additional research and development and sales and marketing activities, which could lead to increases in our expenses and future declines in operating results. In addition, our future expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage these activities or any revenue declines successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract new customers to our services on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. We must continue to attract a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis. We rely on a variety of marketing methods to attract new customers to our services. Our ability to attract new customers also depends on the competitiveness of the pricing of our products and services. If our current marketing initiatives are not successful or become unavailable, if the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase, or if our competitors offer similar products or services at lower prices, we may not be able to attract new customers on a cost-effective basis and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. Customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after their subscription period expires, and these subscriptions may not be renewed on the same or more profitable terms. As a result, our ability to sustain our revenue base depends in part on subscription renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our services, the prices of the products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our products and services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. 17 Our sales cycles for commercial and government clients can be long, unpredictable and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The timing of our revenue from sales to commercial and government clients is difficult to predict. These efforts require us to educate our clients about the use and benefit of our services, including the technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Commercial clients typically undertake a significant evaluation and pilot testing process that has in the past, resulted in lengthy sales cycles, typically several months. We spend substantial time, effort and money on our commercial sales efforts without any assurance that these efforts will produce any sales. In addition, subscriptions are frequently subject to budget constraints and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific client for a particular reporting period are not realized in that period or at all, our results could fall short of expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our efforts to build a strong brand identity are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers and our operating results may be adversely affected. We believe that building and maintaining a strong brand identity plays an important role in attracting and retaining customers for our products and users for our services, who may have other options from which to obtain services. We are currently involved in a major initiative to establish a new brand for our technology products and services in the public safety and vehicle recognition markets, which will require time and expense. In order to build a strong brand, we believe that we must offer innovative service offerings that our customers and subscribers value, and also market and promote those service offerings through effective marketing campaigns, promotions and communications with our customer base. From time to time, clients and subscribers may express dissatisfaction with our products and services or react negatively to our strategic business decisions, such as changes that we make in pricing, features or service offerings, including the discontinuance of a free service. To the extent that client dissatisfaction with our services or strategic business decisions is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand identity may suffer and, as a result, our ability to attract and retain clients and subscribers may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to capitalize on potential emerging market opportunities and new products and services that we introduce may not generate the revenue and earnings we anticipated, which may adversely affect our business. Our business strategy involves identifying emerging market opportunities where we can capitalize on successfully developing and introducing new products and services or enhancing existing products and services to address those market opportunities. We have made, and expect to continue to make, investments in research and development in an effort to capitalize on potential emerging market opportunities that we have identified in the public safety, program compliance and vehicle recognition markets. Emerging markets and opportunities often take time to fully develop, and they attract a significant number of competitors. If the emerging markets we have targeted ultimately fail to materialize as we or others have anticipated or if potential clients choose to adopt solutions offered by our competitors rather than our own solutions, we may not be able to generate the revenue and earnings we anticipated, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive service than they had offered individually. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Many of the companies driving this trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary services and technologies. Such combinations and realignments may create more compelling service offerings or offer greater pricing flexibility than we can or may engage in business practices that make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or service functionality. These pressures could result in a loss of customers, reduction in revenues or limitation on our ability to grow. 18 We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in time to address the needs of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The cloud-based services and AI based product markets in which many of our products and services compete are characterized by rapid technological change, the frequent introduction of new products and services and evolving industry standards. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in large part on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services and develop new service offerings that keep pace with these markets rapid technological developments. Additionally, to achieve market acceptance, we must effectively anticipate and offer products and services that meet changing client demands in a timely manner. Clients may require features and capabilities that our current products and services do not have. If we fail to develop products and services that satisfy customer requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to renew subscriptions with existing clients and our ability to create or increase demand for our products and services will be harmed, and our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the continued services of certain key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the continued services of certain members of our management. In particular, the loss of the services of Robert A. Berman, as Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a director and Matthew Hill, our Chief Science Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. Although we take prudent steps to retain key personnel, we face competition for qualified individuals from numerous professional services and technology companies. For example, our competitors may be able to attract and retain more qualified professional and technical personnel by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new personnel and retain our current personnel, we may not be able to develop and maintain our services at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. It may also be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals in the timeframe demanded by our clients. Furthermore, some of our contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. Our failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, our ability to compete would decrease, our operating results would suffer and our revenues would decrease. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions which we consummate, and we may be subject to business uncertainties. Uncertainties about the effect of our recent and planned acquisitions on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on our Company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel for a period of time after the acquisitions, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us, which may have an adverse effect on our Company. Employee retention may be particularly challenging, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company. The achievement of the benefits expected from integration of acquired companies may require us to incur significant costs. The incurrence of any such costs, as well as any unexpected costs or delays, in connection with such integration, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our strategic transition to primarily a technology based business focused on vehicle recognition systems and intelligent roadways entails a number of risks, including but not limited to our ability to generate sufficient revenue and cash flow to successfully execute our business plan and cover administrative expenses. 19 We may be required to write-down certain assets after completing our required annual evaluations, which may affect our reported financial results. The initial determination of the fair value of assets we acquire upon consummation of an acquisition is based upon an internal valuation . We are required to analyze the carrying value of our acquired intangibles and goodwill on an annual basis going forward. After the detailed annual evaluation of the carrying value of the intangible assets, as supported by external analysis, we may be required to make adjustments to our consolidated balance sheet and/or statement of operations. Any adjustments will affect our reported financial results. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial additional debt which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition and thus negatively impact the value of our stockholders investment in the Company. The anticipated cash needs of our business could change significantly as we pursue business opportunities, if our business plans change, if economic conditions change from those currently prevailing or from those now anticipated or if other unexpected circumstances arise that may have a material effect on the cash flow or profitability of our business. If we require additional capital resources to grow our business, either internally or through acquisition, we may need to seek to secure additional debt financing. We may not be able to obtain financing arrangements on acceptable terms or in amounts sufficient to meet our needs in the future. The incurrence of debt could have a variety of negative effects, including: risk of default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness and increased interest payments if we breach covenants that include the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Our business has significant working capital needs and if we are unable to satisfy those needs from cash generated from our operations, borrowing or sales of equity, our financial condition will be adversely affected. We will require significant amounts of working capital to operate our business, implement our plans for growth and maintain our competitive advantages. If we experience a significant and sustained drop in operating profits, or if there are unanticipated reductions in cash inflows or increases in cash outlays, we may be subject to cash shortfalls. If such a shortfall were to occur for even a brief period, it could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In particular, we use working capital to pay interest expenses and expenses relating to our employees and temporary workers and to satisfy our workers compensation liabilities. Generally, we pay our workers on a biweekly basis while we generally receive payments from our customers 30 to 60 days after billing. As a result, we must maintain sufficient cash availability to pay employees and independent contractors and fund related payroll liabilities prior to receiving payment from customers. We have derived working capital for our operations primarily through cash from operating activities from our subsidiaries, issuance of debt, the sale of non-core subsidiaries, the sale of assets and the sale of our equity. We believe that our current sources of capital are adequate to meet our working capital needs. However, our available sources of capital are limited. If our working capital needs increase in the future, we may be forced to seek additional sources of capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes for our licensing and subscription products and services or pay regulatory fees in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. Primarily due to the nature of our cloud-based services in certain states and countries, we do not believe we are required to collect sales or other related taxes from our customers in certain states or countries. However, one or more other states or countries may seek to impose sales, regulatory fees or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales by us or our resellers and other partners. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other related taxes on our services or paying regulatory fees could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our services or otherwise harm our business and operating results. 20 We may not qualify for forgiveness of our PPP Loans. We face risks associated with such PPP Loans. On May 26, 2020, the Company entered into a loan agreement with Newtek Small Business Finance, LLC, which provides for a loan in the principal amount of $221,000 (the Rekor PPP Loan) pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program under the CARES Act. The Rekor PPP Loan has a two-year term and bears interest at a rate of 1.0% per annum. Monthly principal and interest payments are deferred for six months after the date of disbursement. On June 3, 2020, the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Rekor Recognition Systems, Inc., entered into a loan agreement with Newtek Small Business Finance, LLC, which provides for a loan in the principal amount of $653,000 (the Rekor Recognition PPP Loan) pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program under the CARES Act. The Rekor Recognition PPP Loan has a two-year term and bears interest at a rate of 1.0% per annum. Monthly principal and interest payments are deferred for six months after the date of disbursement. The Rekor PPP Loan and the Rekor Recognition PPP Loan (collectively the Loans) may be prepaid at any time prior to maturity with no prepayment penalties. The Loans contain events of default and other provisions customary for a loan of this type. The Paycheck Protection Program provides that the Loan Notes may be partially or wholly forgiven if the funds are used for certain qualifying expenses as described in the CARES Act. The Company believes it used the entire amount of the Loans for qualifying expenses and will apply for forgiveness of the Loans in accordance with the terms of the CARES Act. Notwithstanding that, the Company may not qualify for forgiveness of the Loans in whole or part and may be required to repay such Loans in full. With respect to any portion of the Loans that are not forgiven, the Loans will be subject to customary provisions for Loans of this type, including customary events of default relating to, among other things, payment defaults, breaches of the provisions of the PPP Notes and cross-defaults on any other loan with the PPP Lender or other creditors. In the event the Loans are not forgiven, the debt service payments on such Loans may negatively affect our ability to grow our operations, service other debt and/or pay our expenses as they come due. Furthermore, any default under the Loans may require us to pay a significant amount of our available cash and/or cash flow to service such debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Any failure of the Loans to be forgiven pursuant to their terms, and/or our requirement to repay the Loans in whole or part, could cause the value our common stock to decline in value. Separately, we face risks associated with the fact that the Treasury Department and a House oversight subcommittee has recently requested that certain large public companies return prior PPP Loans which have been obtained by such public companies and former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin warned that public companies receiving loans over $2 million would be audited and could have potential criminal liability if their certifications (required to obtain such loans) were untrue. As a result, we could face penalties in connection with the Loans and/or negative reactions from the public associated with our Loans, either of which could cause the value of our common stock to decline in value. Improper disclosure of confidential and personal data could result in liability and harm to our reputation. Our handling and storage of the data we collect from some of our customers, vendors and employees, and our processing of data, which may include confidential or personally identifiable information, through the services we provide, may be subject to a variety of laws and regulations, which have been adopted by various federal, state and foreign governments to regulate the collection, distribution, use and storage of personal information of individuals. Several foreign countries in which we conduct business, including the European Economic Area (EEA) and Canada, currently have in place, or have recently proposed, laws or regulations concerning privacy, data protection and information security, which are more restrictive than those imposed in the United States. Some of these laws are in their early stages and we cannot yet determine the impact these revised laws and regulations, if implemented, may have on our business. However, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these privacy laws, regulations, policies or obligations or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data in our possession, could result in government enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties and/or adverse publicity, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. 21 For example, the EEA wide General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became applicable on May 25, 2018, replacing the data protection laws of each EEA member state. The GDPR implemented more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements to erase an individuals information upon request, mandatory data breach notification requirements and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. It also significantly increases penalties for non-compliance, including where we act as a service provider (e.g. data processor). If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with applicable current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we use personal data or our marketing practices, fines, for example, of up to 20 million Euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) under the GDPR, or other liabilities, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Data protection regulation remains an area of increased focus in all jurisdictions and data protection regulations continue to evolve. There is no assurance that we will be able to meet new requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personally identifiable information from the EU to the United States without incurring substantial expense or at all. European and/or multi-national customers may be reluctant to purchase or continue to use our services due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. In addition, we may be subject to claims, legal proceedings or other actions by individuals or governmental authorities if they have reason to believe that our data privacy or security measures fail to comply with current or future laws and regulations. Moreover, we must ensure that certain vendors and customers who have access to such information also have the appropriate privacy policies, procedures and protections in place. Although we take customary measures to protect such information, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee or subcontractor error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are growing increasingly sophisticated. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. This environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls throughout the Company. Despite these efforts, it is possible that our security controls over data, training, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable or other confidential information. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could be liable under laws and regulations that protect personal or other confidential data resulting in increases costs or loss of revenues and the market perception of our services could be harmed. Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber and other security threats or disruptions. We face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; insider threats; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. Cyber threats are constant and evolving and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, malicious software, destructive malware, attacks by computer hackers attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release or loss of confidential, personal or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our employees, customers or subcontractors), and corruption of data, networks or systems. In addition, we could be impacted by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities found in products we use or in our partners or customers systems that are used in connection with our business. Our clients and subcontractors face similar threats and/or they may not be able to detect or deter them, or effectively to mitigate resulting losses. These threats could damage our reputation as well as our subcontractors ability to perform and could affect our clients ability to pay. 22 Although we use various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats to us, our clients and our partners, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation and/or require remedial actions or lead to loss of business, regulatory actions potential liability and financial loss, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We are dependent upon technology services, and if we experience damage, service interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems, our customer and worker relationships and our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected. Our business could be interrupted by damage to or disruption of our computer, telecommunications equipment, software systems, or software applications. Our customers businesses may be adversely affected by any system, application or equipment failure we experience. As a result of any of the foregoing, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, we may lose customers, our ability to attract new customers may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to contractual liability. Precautions in place to protect us from, or minimize the effect of, such events may not be adequate. In addition, the failure or disruption of mail, communications and/or utilities could cause an interruption or suspension of our operations or otherwise harm our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, revenue, profits and operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, we will not be able to remain competitive, and the demand for our services will likely decline. The markets in which we operate are in general characterized by the following factors: changes due to rapid technological advances; additional qualification requirements related to technological challenges; and evolving industry standards and changes in the regulatory and legislative environment. Our future success will depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards, and to effectively develop, introduce, market and gain broad acceptance of new product and service enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements. We operate in highly competitive industries, some with low barriers to entry, and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Our business is competitive, and we compete with companies in highly competitive industries that may have greater name recognition and financial resources, as well as many independent sole-proprietors who sell themselves as outsourced resources. We also compete with providers of outsourcing services, systems integrators, computer systems consultants and other providers of services. We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. The needs of our clients change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop products and services that address these changing needs of our clients, and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and solutions. In order to compete effectively in our markets, we must target our potential customers carefully, continue to improve our efficiencies and the scope and quality of our services, and rely on our service quality, innovation, and client relations to provide services on a cost-effective basis to our clients. Our competitors may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, heightened competition among our existing competitors, especially on a price basis, or by new entrants into the market, could create additional competitive pressures that may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If our competitive advantages are not compelling or sustainable, then we are unlikely to increase or sustain profits and our stock price could decline. 23 A downturn of the U.S. or global economy could result in our customers using fewer products and services or becoming unable to pay us for our services on a timely basis or at all, which would materially adversely affect our business. Because demand for our solutions and services are sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. During periods of weak economic growth or economic contraction, the demand for outsourced services could decline. When demand drops, our operating profit could be impacted unfavorably as we experience a deleveraging of our selling and administrative expense base because expenses may not decline as quickly as revenues. In periods of decline, we can only reduce selling and administrative expenses to a certain level without negatively impacting the long-term potential of our business. Additionally, during economic downturns government agencies and companies may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors, or they may become unable to pay their obligations. If our customers become unable to pay amounts owed to us, or pay us more slowly, then our cash flow and profitability may suffer significantly. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and losses, including class action lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. New employment and labor laws and regulations may be proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies we have in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. There can also be no assurance that the insurance policies we have purchased to insure against certain risks will be adequate or that insurance coverage will remain available on commercially reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. We are dependent on workers compensation insurance coverage at commercially reasonable terms. We provide workers compensation insurance for our employees and temporary workers and are contractually obligated to collateralize our workers compensation obligations under our workers compensation program through irrevocable letters of credit, surety bonds or cash. A significant portion of our workers compensation program renews annually on September 29 th of each year, and as part of the renewal, could be subject to an increase in collateral. In addition, collateral requirements can be significant and place pressure on our liquidity and working capital capacity. Further, we cannot be certain we will be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future or that adequate replacement policies will be available on commercially reasonable terms. Depending on future changes in collateral requirements, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital in the future, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of our workers compensation insurance coverage would prevent us from doing business in the majority of our markets. We incur substantial costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management is required to devote substantial time to related compliance matters. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. under rules implemented by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and The Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq). These impose various requirements on public companies, including establishing and maintaining effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management team will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements and we may need to hire additional personnel. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. To achieve compliance with Section 404, we engage in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants, and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. 24 In addition, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and divert managements time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. As a public company, complying with applicable rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantially higher costs to obtain and maintain the same or similar coverage. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations, which could subject our business to higher tax liability. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carry forwards that we can offset future taxable income for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2020, we had gross federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $33,787,000 and $26,435,000, net of federal tax effect, respectively. A lack of future taxable income could adversely affect our ability to use these NOLs. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, including through acquisitions, could result in ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and may result in a limitation on the amount of NOL carry forwards that could be used annually to offset future taxable income and taxes payable. Our NOLs at December 31, 2020 may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law, and may expire unused or underused, which would prevent us from using our NOL carry forwards to offset future taxable income. Assertions by a third party that our services and solutions infringe its intellectual property, whether or not correct, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or result in settlements or licensing arrangements that could affect our short-term or long-term profitability. There is frequent litigation in the software and technology industries based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Because of the potential for court awards that are difficult to predict, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. In addition, our service agreements may require us to indemnify our customers from certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. Competitors may also seek to use these claims and the pendency of associated litigation as a means of attempting to discredit us or make potential customers fearful of using us, which could harm our relationships with our customers, deter future customers from subscribing to our services or expose us to further litigation. These costs, monetary or otherwise, associated with defending against third party allegations of infringement could have negative effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our services are used to commit intentional or illegal acts, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not secure, and customers may curtail or stop using our services. Certain services offered by us enable customers to capture data from video images. Although our service agreements require our customers to comply with all applicable laws, we do not exercise direct control over use or content of information obtained by our customers through the use of our services. If our services are used by others to commit bad or illegal acts, we may become subject to claims and subject to other potential liabilities. Defending against such claims could be expensive and time-consuming, and there is a possibility that we could incur significant liability to entities who were the harmed of such acts. As a result, our business may suffer, and our reputation may be damaged. 25 We use a limited number of data centers to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could harm our business. Our cloud-based services are hosted from third-party data center facilities located in various parts of the United States. We also use these facilities for some of our development efforts. We do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of these data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. In addition, our operations and development efforts could be seriously affected by failures or interruptions in service at these facilities. Any changes in third-party service levels at these third-party data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services related to the non-performance of these facilities could harm our reputation and may damage our clients businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to clients, subject us to potential liability, cause clients to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, pandemics, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. We currently maintain offices and have sales personnel inside of the United States. However, we plan on expanding our international operations. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to other risks than those we have generally faced in the United States. These risks include: localization of our services and adaptation for local practices, differences in local, legal standards and regulatory requirements; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; dependence on customers, third parties, and channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added or other tax systems; reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright, service mark and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights, all of which can provide only limited protection. In addition, we have not patented significant technologies used to provide our services. We cannot assure you any future patents that may be applied for and issued will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. 26 Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. Material defects or errors in the software that we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions. The software applications underlying our products and services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our products and services could result in: a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; sales credits or refunds to customers; loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; reputational harm; and diversion of internal resources. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our products and services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Government regulation of the Internet, telecommunications and other communications technologies could harm our business and operating results. As internet commerce and telecommunications continue to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments and agencies becomes more likely. Any increase in regulation could affect our clients ability to collect and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet or utilizing telecommunications services may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the internet could diminish the viability of our services, which could harm our business and operating results. Natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, and other catastrophic events or other events outside of our control may damage our business and operating results. In the event of natural disasters, public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, political crises, such as terrorism, war, political instability or other conflict, or other events outside of our control, our business and operating results could suffer. Moreover, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally, which could adversely impact our operating results. Rekor is unable to predict the extent to which the global COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic may adversely impact our business operations, financial performance, results of operations and stock price. The COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic and efforts to control its spread have significantly curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, including in many of the regions in which we sell our products and services and conduct our business operations. The magnitude and duration of the resulting decline in business activity cannot currently be estimated with any degree of certainty and threatens to (1) negatively impact the demand for our products and services, especially in those locations subject to shelter in place restrictions or similar government orders, (2) restrict our sales operations and marketing efforts, and (3) disrupt other important business activities in our various locations, some of which are also in areas affected by COVID-19. For example, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, certain industry events at which we present and participate certain customer events have been canceled, postponed or moved to virtual-only experiences; we are encouraging all of our employees to work remotely; and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional customer, employee or industry events in the future. Additionally, we may see our services carrying less revenue-generating traffic in areas subject to shelter in place restrictions or related government orders as the population of those areas refrain from traveling and normal commerce activities. Accordingly, we expect the COVID-19 pandemic to potentially have a negative impact on our sales and our results of operations in those areas adversely affected by COVID-19, the size and duration of which we are currently unable to predict. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of COVID-19 have caused extreme volatility in financial and other capital markets which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access capital. 27 Risks relating to our common stock If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business, our market and our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease covering us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. As of March 12, 2021, we have a total of 40,804,219 shares of common stock outstanding and 768,140 warrants. Based on shares outstanding as of March 12, 2021, 9,711,539 shares of common stock, or 23.8%, are held by our officers, directors and their affiliated entities, and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. In addition, 1,673,333 shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and warrants as of March 12, 2021, will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, sales of our shares in the public market or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. However, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued on exercise of outstanding options, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We also expect that significant additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To raise capital, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Investors may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to sell shares or other securities in any other offering at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share paid by investors, and investors purchasing our shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by investors. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that for the foreseeable future we will retain all of our future earnings for the development, operation and growth of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any future determination to pay dividends on our common stock in will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. 28 Our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates will continue to exercise significant influence over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of March 12, 2021, our executive officers, directors, five percent or greater stockholders and their respective affiliates owned in the aggregate approximately 23.8% of our common stock. These stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position and may have a determining role in matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to ultimately determine elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. We are a smaller reporting company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are currently a smaller reporting company, meaning that we are not an investment company, an asset-backed issuer, or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent company that is not a smaller reporting company, and have had annual revenues of less than $100 million and public float of less than $700 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. As a smaller reporting company, we are subject to lesser disclosure obligations in our SEC filings compared to other issuers. Specifically, "smaller reporting companies" are able to provide simplified executive compensation disclosures in their filings, are exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that independent registered public accounting firms provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and have certain other decreased disclosure obligations in their SEC filings, including, among other things, only being required to provide two years of audited consolidated financial statements in annual reports. Decreased disclosures in our SEC filings due to our status a smaller reporting company may make it harder for investors to analyze our operating results and financial prospects. Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult, including that : the request of one or more stockholders holding shares in the aggregate entitled to cast not less than 35% of the vote at a meeting is required to call a stockholder meeting. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take certain actions you desire. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices are located at 7172 Columbia Gateway Drive, Suite 400, Columbia, Maryland 21046. We do not own any real property. We currently operate out of three leased locations and our lease terms range from month-to-month to multiyear commitments. We do not consider any of our leased properties to be materially important to us. While we believe it is necessary to maintain offices through which our services are coordinated, we feel there are sufficient available office rental properties to adequately serve our needs should we need to relocate or expand our operations. 29 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On August 19, 2019, we filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against three former executives of the Company and Firestorm (the Firestorm Principals) Rekor Systems, Inc. v. Suzanne Loughlin, et al ., Case no. 1:19-cv-07767-VEC. The Complaint alleges that the Firestorm Principals fraudulently induced the execution of the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement wherein Firestorm was acquired by us. The Complaint requests equitable rescission of that transaction, or, alternatively, monetary damages. Following an initial amended complaint, answer and counterclaims, and defendants motion for judgment on the pleadings, on January 30, 2020, we filed a Second Amended Complaint, which the Firestorm Principals answered together with counterclaims on February 28, 2020. Thereafter, on March 30, we moved to dismiss certain counterclaims against certain executives named as counterclaim-defendants, which resulted in the Firestorm Principals voluntarily dismissing those counterclaims against those parties. We thereafter filed our response and affirmative defenses to the Counterclaims on April 22, 2020. On April 27, 2020, the Firestorm Principals filed a Motion for Partial Judgment on the Pleadings, which we have opposed. In addition, on December 9, 2019, the Firestorm Principals filed a motion for an interim award of expenses and attorneys fees. The Court denied the Firestorm Principals fee advance motion. In the year 2020, the Firestorm Principals filed suit in New York Supreme Court against directors of the Company, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and libel. We believe that these suits are without merit and intend to vigorously litigate this matter. At this stage of these litigations, we are unable to render an opinion regarding the likelihood of a favorable outcome. We intend to continue vigorously litigating its claims against the Firestorm Principals and believe that the Firestorm Principals remaining counterclaims and suits against Rekor directors and officers are without merit. Vigilant Solutions, LLC, a subsidiary of Motorola Solutions, Inc., filed a complaint on February 21, 2020 against us and certain of our subsidiaries in the US District Court for the District of Maryland. The complaint alleged that certain of our products violated a patent held by Vigilant. On June 10, 2020, we filed an Answer to the complaint denying the pertinent allegations and asserting substantial defenses to the allegations contained in the complaint, including that the patent underlying the complaint is invalid. On September 8, 2020, we filed a Petition for Inter Partes Review at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Offices Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) requesting that the PTAB review and find unpatentable certain claims of the patent asserted by Vigilant. In November of 2020, we and Vigilant Solutions, LLC agreed to resolve the district court litigation and Inter Partes Review action between the parties pursuant to a confidential settlement agreement. None of the obligations imposed by that confidential settlement agreement are material to the Company. On January 31, 2020, our wholly owned subsidiary, OpenALPR, filed a complaint in the US District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against a former customer, Plate Capture Solutions, Inc. (PCS) for breach of software license agreements pursuant to which software was licensed to PCS. On June 14, 2020, PCS filed its operative answer to the Complaint. On June 21, 2020, PCS filed a motion to join us and another entity, OpenALPR Technology, Inc., as parties to the litigation and made claims against them for defamation, fraud and intentional interference with existing and future business relationships. On July 13, 2020, OpenALPR filed an opposition to the motion for joinder. On November 23, 2020, the Court denied PCSs Motion for Joinder with prejudice. The case is currently proceeding between OpenALPR and PCS only and is still in its early stages. Rekor believes that OpenALPR has substantial defenses to the claims and intends to vigorously defend the allegations of those claims. On September 18, 2020, Fordham Financial Management, Inc. (Fordham) commenced a lawsuit against us in the Supreme Court for the State of New York, New York County. Fordham alleges that we breached an underwriting agreement with it. Fordham has brought claims for breach of contract, a declaratory judgment, and attorneys fees and expenses, and seeks damages. The Complaint was served to us on September 25, 2020. The parties have agreed to extend our time to respond to the Complaint until March 25, 2021 and have agreed that if we file a motion to dismiss, such motion will be fully briefed and returnable on May 25, 2021 if not further extended. The parties engaged in a private mediation on February 24, 2021 but were unable to reach settlement. 30 At this stage of the Fordham litigation, we are unable to render an opinion regarding the likelihood of a favorable outcome. We intend to vigorously litigate this action and believes that the claims asserted are without merit. In addition, from time to time, we may be named as a party to various other lawsuits, claims and other legal and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, infringement of proprietary rights, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to such lawsuits, claims and proceedings we accrue reserves when a loss is probable, and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. It is our managements opinion that the outcome of these proceedings, individually and collectively, will not be material to our consolidated financial statements as a whole. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 31 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol REKR. Holders As of February 28, 2021, there were 66 registered holders of record of our common stock, excluding stockholders for whom shares are held in nominee or street name. The actual number of common stockholders is greater than the number of record holders, and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities . Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our earnings will be used to provide working capital, to support our operations, and to finance the growth and development of our business, including potentially the acquisition of, or investment in, businesses, technologies or products that complement our existing business. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, applicable Delaware law, which provides that dividends are only payable out of surplus or current net profits and other factors our Board of Directors might deem relevant. Sales of Unregistered Securities On March 12, 2019, as partial consideration for its acquisition of certain assets of OpenALPR, Rekor issued 600,000 shares of its common stock to the seller, valued at $397,000. On the same date, Rekor issued senior secured promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of $20,000,000 and warrants to purchase 2,500,000 shares of its common stock, which are immediately exercisable at an exercise price of $0.74 per share, to certain individuals and entities. The foregoing issuances were issued in reliance upon the exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, provided by Section 4(a)(2) and Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated thereunder. Note Exchange Agreement In an agreement reached on June 30, 2020, the 2019 Lenders of the 2019 Promissory Notes agreed to a redemption of approximately 77% of the remaining principal balance of the 2019 Promissory Notes as of June 30, 2020. Per the Exchange Agreement, $17,398,000, was redeemed in exchange for 4,349,497 shares of the Companys common stock, at a rate of $4 per share (the Note Exchange). At the time of the Exchange Agreement the net amount of long-term debt redeemed for common stock was $14,688,000, this included the existing principal balance subject to conversion, the portion of the exit fee associated with the notes subject to conversion, offset by the portion of unamortized issuance costs associated with the notes subject to conversion. There was also $226,000 related to the paid-in-kind (PIK) interest associated to the notes subject to conversion that was exchanged as part of the Exchange Agreements. The difference between the market value of the shares issued and the net carrying amount of the obligations above, was recorded as part of debt extinguishments costs in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. On July 15, 2020, we completed the Note Exchange by issuing its common stock to the 2019 Lenders in connection with the Note Exchange Transaction in reliance on Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 32 At-the-Market Agreement Sales of our common stock under the Sales Agreement were issued and sold pursuant to the Companys shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No 333-224423), previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 24, 2018 and declared effective by the SEC on April 30, 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2020, based on settlement date, we sold 5,216,562 shares of common stock at a weighted-average selling price of $5.92 per share in accordance with the Sales Agreement. Net cash provided for the year ended December 31, 2020 from the Sales Agreement was $29,930,000 after paying 3.0% or $926,000 related to cash commissions provided to B. Riley FBR. On September 21, 2020, we elected to voluntarily terminate our Sales Agreement with B. Riley FBR pursuant to the terms of the Sales Agreement. As of the termination date, we had offered and sold an aggregate of 6,509,202 shares of common stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement, which resulted in aggregate gross proceeds of $34,154,000. Increase in Authorized Shares On January 28, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted resolutions of the Board to ratify, approve and recommend stockholder approval of an amendment to the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to increase the authorized number of shares of the Companys common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, from 30,000,000 to 100,000,000 (the Amendment). On February 21, 2020, we received approval of the Amendment by written consent in lieu of a meeting from the holders of a majority of issued and outstanding shares of the Companys common stock. On March 18, 2020, the amendment became effective upon filing the Certificate of Amendment with the Secretary of State of Delaware. Public Offering On February 9, 2021, we issued and sold 6,126,936 shares of our common stock (which includes 799,166 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the exercise of an overallotment option). The net proceeds to the Company, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, were approximately $70.1 million. The shares were sold pursuant to an underwriting agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc. and Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein and our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-224423) filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) that became effective on April 30, 2018. On February 4, 2021, a prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus were filed with the SEC in connection with the offering and a related registration statement (File No. 333-252735) was filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) promulgated under the Securities Act. Automatic Conversion of Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock and Series B Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock As a result of the closing of the Public Offering, all of our issued and outstanding Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Series A Preferred Stock) and Series B Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Series B Preferred Stock) were automatically converted pursuant to their respective terms into an aggregate of 1,416,785 shares of our common stock. As a result of the automatic conversion of the Series A Preferred, the Series A Preferred will no longer be quoted on the OTC Pink. The Series B Preferred was not quoted on any trading market. Use of Proceeds We have generated losses since our inception in February 2017 and have relied on cash on hand, external bank lines of credit, short-term borrowing arrangements, issuance of debt, the sale of a note, sale of our non-core subsidiaries, and the sale of common stock to provide cash for operations. We attribute losses to financing costs, public company corporate overhead, lower than expected revenue, and lower gross profit of some of our subsidiaries. Our proceeds have been primarily used for research and development and sales and marketing expenses related to new product development and our strategic shift to develop and promote capabilities of our technology offerings. 33 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As a smaller reporting company as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, the Company is not required to provide information required by this Item. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report and the historical financial statements of Rekor Systems, Inc., and the related notes thereto. Overview We are a leader in the field of vehicle identification and intelligent roadway management systems developed to exploit the benefits of recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI). In development for over six years using deep learning algorithms, our core proprietary software enables the creation of more powerful and capable vehicle recognition systems that can be deployed at a fraction of the cost of traditional legacy systems. The software provides a wider field of view, greater light sensitivity and recognitions at faster speeds and with higher accuracy rates. It also includes the ability to identify the color, make and body type of a vehicle and its direction of travel. These capabilities are particularly useful to governmental entities and businesses in solving a wide variety of real-world vehicle related operational challenges. In addition, the ability to enhance existing Internet Protocol (IP) connected cameras has enabled significant new uses for vehicle recognition technology that were not previously available or cost effective. We currently provide products and services for governmental organizations, for large and small businesses and for individuals throughout the world. Customers currently use our products or services in approximately 80 countries in applications that include public safety, security, customer experience, transportation, parking, operational efficiencies and logistics. Rekors vision is to enable AI Driven Decisions by enhancing the capabilities in commercial and government sectors with actionable, real-time insights. We deliver these insights through an expanding software portfolio that is being designed not only to address the challenges our customers are currently facing but empowers them to effectively deal with their evolving needs. General The information provided in this discussion and analysis of Rekors financial condition and results of operations covers the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. During 2019, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of OpenALPR Technology, Inc. (the OpenALPR Technology Acquisition) . During 2020 we sold our fully owned subsidiaries AOC Key Solutions Inc. (AOC Key Solutions) and Global Technical Services Inc. (TeamGlobal). As a result of the dispositions, we determined in 2020 that all the remaining operations that comprised our Professional Services Segment met the criteria to be considered discontinued and they are no longer presented as continuing operations. Our financial results are impacted principally by the demand by clients for our products and services, the degree to which full-time staff can be kept occupied in revenue-generating activities and the success of our sales team in generating client engagements. Unexpected changes in the demand for our products and services can result in significant variations in revenues, and present a challenge to optimal hiring, staffing and use of consultants. The volume of work performed can vary from period to period. Acquisitions and Dispositions On March 12, 2019, we completed the OpenALPR Technology Acquisition for an aggregate purchase price of $12,397,000, consisting of $7,000,000 in cash, $5,000,000 related to the issuance of note payable and $397,000 of stock consideration. 34 On June 1, 2019, we sold all the interest we had acquired in Secure Education Consultants, LLC, which we acquired on January 1, 2018. At that time, we also discontinued operations of BC Management. On April 2, 2020, we sold AOC Key Solutions for an aggregate purchase price of $4,000,000, consisting of $3,400,000 in cash and a subordinated promissory note in the amount of $600,000. On June 29, 2020, we sold TeamGlobal for an aggregate purchase price of $4,000,000, consisting of $2,300,000 in cash and a secured promissory note in the amount of $1,700,000. Opportunities, Trends and Uncertainties We look to identify the various trends, market cycles, uncertainties and other factors that may provide us with opportunities and present challenges that impact our operations and financial condition from time to time. Although there are many that we may not or cannot foresee, we believe that our results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future will be primarily affected by the following: AI for the Roadway We believe that the application of AI to the analysis of roadway conditions will significantly affect vehicular travel in the future by assisting in the intelligent optimization of traffic flows and the identification of anomalous and unsafe movements e.g. wrong way vehicles, stopped vehicles, or/and pedestrian on the roadway. Marketers and drive-thru retailers with loyalty programs can also benefit from rapid, lower cost identification of existing and potential customers in streamlining and accelerating vehicular flow. Graphic Processing Unit (GPU) Improvements We expect our business to benefit as a result of more powerful and affordable GPU hardware that has recently been developed. These GPUs are more efficient for image processing because their highly parallel structure makes them more efficient than general-purpose central processing units (CPUs) for algorithms that process large blocks of data, such as those produced by video streams. GPUs also provide superior memory bandwidth and efficiencies as compared to their CPU counterparts. The most recent versions of our software have been designed to use the increased GPU speeds to accelerate image recognitions. The GPU market is predicted to grow as a result of a surge in adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) by the industrial and automotive sectors. As GPU manufacturers increase production volume, we hope to benefit from the reduced cost to manufacture the hardware included in our products or available to others using our services. Edge Processing Demand for actionable roadway information continues to grow in parallel with camera resolutions. Over the last several decades, cameras have evolved from 25K pixels to 8.3 million pixels and beyond, with each advancement unlocking new capabilities thereby fueling growth. Further, cellular networks are optimized for downloading data not for uploading data, and while speeds have improved over time, what amounts to large infrastructure changes has resulted in relatively small improvements to cellular upload speeds. With road-side deployments experiencing explosive growth in count and density, scalability has become an obstacle for competition in the market. All of these factors mean that scalability, latency and bandwidth concerns require edge processing which are enabled by the continued growth of the increasingly effective graphic processing units and continual improvements in efficiency of our AI algorithms. Edge processing ingests local high definition (HD) video streams and converts the raw video data to text data, thus reducing the volume of data that needs to be transferred. Edge processing allows massive scale without the bandwidth, cost, latency and dependability limitations that would be experienced with a streaming to the cloud solution. Adaptability of the Current ALPR Market We have made a considerable investment in our advanced vehicle recognition systems because we believe their increased accuracy, affordability and ability to capture additional vehicle data will allow them to compete effectively with existing providers. Based on published benchmarks, our software currently outperforms competitors in almost every metric. However, large users of existing ALPR technology, such as toll roads, have long-term contracts with service providers that have made considerable investments in their existing technologies and may not consider the improvements in accuracy or reductions in cost sufficient to justify abandoning their current systems in the near future. In addition, existing providers may be able to reduce the cost of their current offerings or elect to reduce prices and accept reduced profitability while working to develop or secure their own advanced vehicle recognition systems. As a result, our success in establishing a major position in these markets will depend on being able to effectively communicate our presence, develop strong customer relationships, and maintain leadership in providing the capabilities that customers want. As with any large market, this will require considerable effort and resources. 35 New and Expanded Uses for Vehicle Recognition Systems We believe that reductions in the cost of vehicle recognition products and services will significantly broaden the market for these systems. We currently serve a number of users who could not afford the cost or adapt to, the restrictions of conventional vehicle recognition systems. These include smaller municipalities, homeowners associations, and organizations finding new applications such as innovative customer loyalty programs. We have seen and responded to an increase in the number of smaller jurisdictions and municipalities that are testing ALPR systems or that issued requests for proposals to install a network of ALPR cameras. We also expect the availability of faster, higher accuracy, lower cost systems to dramatically increase the ability of crowded urban areas to manage traffic congestion and implement smart city programs. We do not currently have the resources to develop all of these entirely new markets by ourselves, so we will need to rely on affiliations with other partners, who may or may not realize the significant benefits that we envision from these new uses. Expansion of Automated Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Laws We believe that future legislation will allow for automated enforcement of motor vehicle regulations, including insurance requirements, to be expanded as the types of violations authorized for automated enforcement increase and experience provides localities with a better understanding of the circumstances where automated enforcement is beneficial. For example, there are now 17 states that allow for the automatic enforcement of violations by vehicles that pass a school bus displaying its flashing red lights and a stop sign. In addition, due to high rates of fatalities and injuries to law enforcement and other emergency response crews on roadsides, several states are considering authorizing automated enforcement of violations where motorists fail to slow down and/or move over for emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles at the side of the road. Legislative implementation is a deliberative and necessarily time-consuming process. However, as states expand auto enforcement, the market for our products and services should increase and broaden in the public safety market. Increasing Smart City Market Nokia has approved the use of our OpenALPR software for its smart city offerings. In the smart cities market, real-time vehicle recognition technologies are widely used for traffic management and public safety. As a result, we expect to benefit from the growth of this market. Accelerated Business Development and Marketing Our ability to compete in a large, competitive and rapidly evolving industry will require us to achieve and maintain a leadership position. As a result, we have accelerated our business development marketing and eCommerce activities to increase awareness and market adoption of our new technology and products within the market. We anticipate that an increased presence in the market, the continued development of strategic partnerships and other economies of scale will significantly reduce the level of costs necessary to support sales of our products and services. However, the speed at which these markets grow to the degree of which our products and services are adopted is uncertain. Sales Cycle As many of our products are new to market, their acceptance and integration into the intended markets is uncertain and we do not have sufficient historical experience to accurately predict revenues as a result of their implementation. COVID 19 - The spread of a novel strain of COVID-19 around the world since the first quarter of 2020 has caused significant volatility in U.S. and international markets. There is significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the U.S. and international economies and, as such, we are unable to determine the full impact to our operations. 36 Pressure on Government Budgets In addition to the COVID-19 crisis crippling businesses revenues, it has caused significant strain on government budgets. With less money to spend and more need for resources, government agencies need affordable, effective, and scalable solutions for revenue recovery and discovery. With subscription pricing and a roadway intelligence platform that accomplishes multiple agency missions from a single camera source, we are uniquely positioned to provide agencies force-multiplying tools when money and man-power are limited. Agencies can be better positioned to identify vehicle registration fee avoidance, enforce parking and find scofflaws, aid motorists in acquiring valid insurance, and dynamically price tolls based on traffic flow. In addition, states adopting UVED programs may be able to garner significant net cash contributions to their annual budgets while reducing the number of uninsured vehicles on their roadways. Unifying Source of Roadway Intelligence with Rekor One - The Rekor One platform will support multiple community safety, intelligent roadway and revenue generation activities. Rekor One will provide government agencies with a comprehensive vehicle intelligence system that supports multiple agency-specific missions. With Rekor One, governments will be able to leverage their existing IP cameras and transform them into a safe and smart multi-dimensional intelligent roadway network. By interfacing with multiple databases and operating systems, Rekor One can allow governmental units to observe security and privacy protocols and fractionalize costs based on relative end user value. Each participating agency receives a unique user interface and dashboard, which draws on Rekor Ones unified vehicle recognition intelligence to provide data customized to the agencys specific needs. This will eliminate redundant systems and single function applications to help use public funds wisely. The platform will aid in identifying licensing and registration non-compliance, uninsured motorists and unpaid parking violations. This will allow agencies to create targeted intervention programs that result in increased safety as well as increased revenue recovery. Smart parking and permitting are also important capabilities that increase government efficiency and provide better citizen and visitor experience. As part of traffic management, Rekor One will also support advanced tolling and congestion pricing as well as parking and other fees. Increased Demand for Contactless Economy Solutions Even prior to the COVID-19 crisis, efficient, touch-free shopping experiences were becoming increasingly present. Now moving beyond simple tap-to-pay credit card functionality, we can offer businesses such as retail and quick service restaurants the ability to have customers pay-by-plate for a complete contactless experience for curbside pick-up or drive-thru transactions. Pay-by-plate functionality not only keeps customers and employees safe, but it also accelerates service time as the technology fully integrates with existing point of sale (POS) and customer loyalty systems. Necessity for On-Demand Mobile Solutions With app downloads increasing exponentially year-over-year and over 90% of mobile phone time spent within apps, businesses require a means to leverage the ever-present smartphones of employees. By developing a first-of-its-kind iOS and Android app that can read license plates on-device, we can provide businesses an affordable way to scale by using existing devices as license plate recognition sensors. Now businesses can efficiently manage visitors, streamline parking operations, enhance campus/event security, and even recover costly assets. We believe that recent developments in computing capabilities, such as GPU advances, and new techniques of analysis, sometimes referred to broadly as AI, have broadened the market for vehicle recognition technology and created new opportunities in existing markets. With our new line of products and services, we are working to actively exploit these opportunities. Other than as discussed above and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any trends, events or uncertainties that are likely to have a material effect on our financial condition. 37 Components of Operating Results Revenues We derive our revenues substantially from license and subscription fees for software and related products and services. A portion of the subscription fees are generated through our eCommerce website rather than through in-person sales. In addition, we derive revenues in connection with certain citation and collection services in connection with UVED, automated traffic safety and parking enforcement services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products and services. If the consideration promised in the contract includes a variable amount, for example maintenance fees, we include an estimate of the amount it expects to receive for the total transaction price, if it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Costs of Revenues Direct costs of revenues consist primarily of the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages and payroll-related costs incurred in connection with revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues also include production expenses, sub-consultant services, and other expenses that are incurred in connection with our revenue generating activities. Direct costs of revenues exclude the portion of technical and non-technical salaries and wages related to marketing efforts, vacations, holidays, and other time not spent directly generating fees under existing contracts. Such costs are included in operating expenses. We expense direct costs of revenues when incurred. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing and research and development. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses also include depreciation, amortization and impairment of assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include office leases, professional fees and insurance. We expect our general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, marketing programs, travel and entertainment associated with sales and marketing personnel, expenses for conferences and trade shows. We intend to make significant investments in our sales and marketing expenses to grow revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our customer base. With the release of our Partners Program we expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in the future. 38 Research and Development Research and development expenses consists of personnel costs, software used to develop our products and consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources. Our research and development expenses support our efforts to continue to add capabilities to and improve the value of our existing products and services, as well as develop new products and services. We expect our research and development expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our AI software. However, we expect our research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest expense in connection with our debt arrangements, costs associated with the extinguishment of our debt arrangements, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, gains or losses on the sale of fixed assets and interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and note receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. Results of Operations Our historical operating results in dollars are presented below. The results below and the analysis of operation is solely related to continuing operations and do not include results of operations from TeamGlobal, AOC Key Solutions and Firestorm. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the foregoing information contained in this Item 7 and with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Only historical operating results are presented below. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Year ended December 31, (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 Revenue $ 9,234 $ 5,469 Cost of revenue 3,533 1,652 Gross profit 5,701 3,817 Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses 12,117 8,276 Selling and marketing expenses 2,247 1,646 Research and development expenses 3,185 1,429 Operating expenses 17,549 11,351 Loss from operations (11,848 ) (7,534 ) Other income (expense): Loss on extinguishment of debt (3,281 ) (1,113 ) Interest expense (2,503 ) (3,909 ) Other income 62 198 Gain on sale of business 3,631 - Total other expense (2,091 ) (4,824 ) Loss before income taxes (13,939 ) (12,358 ) Income tax provision (23 ) (47 ) Net loss from continuing operations $ (13,962 ) $ (12,405 ) 39 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 Restructuring As part of our shift in strategic direction since 2019, we have focused on our technology offerings and have disposed of or discontinued operations in the subsidiaries in our legacy Professional Services Segment. In April 2020, we completed the Sale of AOC Key Solutions and in June 2020, we completed the sale of TeamGlobal. As part of evaluating the future of Firestorm, management decided to sell Secure Education and transfer the BC Management line of business to its founder in the second quarter of 2019. In addition, management determined to discontinue the operation of Firestorm Franchising, LLC, a division of Firestorm, due to non-performance by franchisees. The Company has also commenced an action for rescission of the original purchase of Firestorm. As a result, we have completed the final steps of our announced change in strategic direction to sell lower margin assets and focus on our core Technology Segment. Beginning in 2020, all of the subsidiaries that were previously presented as part of Professional Services operations are classified as discontinued operations and not presented as part of continuing operations. Revenue Year ended December 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % Revenue $ 9,234 $ 5,469 $ 3,765 69 % The increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the expanded technology offerings, the implementation and substantial completion of a perpetual software license and hardware contract which generated up front revenues from building infrastructure and continuing growth in our eCommerce platform as described below . Additionally, revenues attributable to the acquisition of OpenALPR assets were only included in operations since March 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, revenue attributable to OpenALPR assets was recognized for the full year compared to only a nine and half a month period in the corresponding period in 2019. Additionally, part of the growth in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was attributable to revenues earned through our eCommerce platform which organically increased, $426,000 or 97%, to $865,000 from $439,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year ended December 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ or % Points % Cost of revenue $ 3,533 $ 1,652 $ 1,881 114 % Gross profit 5,701 3,817 1,884 49 % Gross margin 62 % 70 % -8 % -11 % For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, the increase in gross profit was primarily attributable to the increase in revenue for the corresponding period. For the year ended December 31, 2020 the gross margin decreased to 62%, which was primarily attributable to building infrastructure in connection with large software and hardware contracts. These contracts included construction and assembly of fixtures for our vehicle recognition cameras and the infrastructure necessary to support database and communications operations on a shared basis with other municipalities. In this early stage, the cost of building the network is higher and the initial margins for such projects are consequently lower than expected than for future operations that will be able to use the same infrastructure. 40 Operating Expenses Year ended December 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % Operating expenses: General and administrative expenses $ 12,117 $ 8,276 $ 3,841 46 % Selling and marketing expenses 2,247 1,646 601 37 % Research and development expenses 3,185 1,429 1,756 123 % Operating expenses $ 17,549 $ 11,351 $ 6,198 55 % General and Administrative Expenses The majority of the increase to general and administrative expenses is attributable to the increased staffing. For the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, we brought on additional headcount of the Company to support our growth plan and build our corporate structure including executives. In addition, we incurred higher legal costs associated with litigations as described in Item 3 - Legal Proceedings. Selling and Marketing Expenses The increase in the selling and marketing expenses during the year is mainly attributable to the increased marketing efforts to promote our products and services including digital marketing and other sales efforts. In connection with these efforts there was an increase in staffing to support the Companys growth plan. Research and Development Expense The overall increase in research and development expenses is primarily attributable to the strategic shift to develop new products and additional software capabilities, as a result of our increased focus on our technology offerings. This shift took place at the end of the first quarter of 2019. The increase in our research and development expenses is mainly attributable to an increase in headcount and hours associated with the research and development activities. Other Expense Year ended December 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % Other income (expense): Loss on extinguishment of debt $ (3,281 ) $ (1,113 ) $ (2,168 ) -195 % Interest expense (2,503 ) (3,909 ) 1,406 36 % Other income 62 198 (136 ) -69 % Gain on sale of business 3,631 - 3,631 100 % Total other expense $ (2,091 ) $ (4,824 ) $ 2,733 57 % The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 is due to the staged retirement of the 2019 Promissory notes in 2020. The loss on the extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2020, was related to the fees associated with the early extinguishment of the principal balance of our 2019 Promissory Notes. During 2019, we incurred costs of $1,113,000 associated with the extinguishment of debt. In connection with the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal, we recognized a gain on the sale of business of $3,631,000 during the year ended December 31, 2020. 41 Income Tax Expense The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2020, was $23,000, is due primarily to the state taxes, as compared to tax expense of $47,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. There is also approximately $14,000 of additional deferred taxes related to the goodwill recognized related to the OpenALPR acquisition recognized in the year ended December 31, 2020. We established a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2017 and have continued to maintain a full valuation allowance through the year ended December 31, 2020. Non-GAAP Measures EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We calculate EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) impairment of intangible assets, (ii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iii) stock-based compensation, (iv) losses or gains on sales of subsidiaries, and (v) other unusual or non-recurring items. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measurements of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of our operating performance or as a measure of liquidity or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a companys ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. The following table sets forth the components of the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods included (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 Net loss $ (13,962 ) $ (12,405 ) Income taxes 23 47 Interest 2,503 3,909 Depreciation and amortization 1,961 1,377 EBITDA $ (9,475 ) $ (7,072 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt $ 3,281 $ 1,113 Share-based compensation 796 446 Gain on sale of business (3,631 ) - Loss on sale of Secure Education - 3 Adjusted EBITDA $ (9,029 ) $ (5,510 ) Lease Obligations At December 31, 2020, we leased building space at the following locations in the U.S.: Columbia, Maryland The corporate headquarters Linthicum, Maryland Storage facility for inventory related to our technology hardware Orlando, Florida Florida implementation office 42 We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We may improve, replace or reduce facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the periods below were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 Change $ % Net cash used in operating activities - continuing operations $ (11,175 ) $ (7,256 ) $ (3,919 ) -54 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities - continuing operations 5,188 (548 ) 5,736 1047 % Net cash provided by financing activities - continuing operations 24,847 6,787 18,060 266 % Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents - continuing operations $ 18,860 $ (1,017 ) $ 19,877 1954 % Net cash used in operating activities continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 had a net increase of $3,919,000 which was primarily attributable to the increase in the loss from continuing operations of $1,557,000. Additionally, there were large non-cash adjustments such as the $3,631,000 gain on the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal. The gain on the sale is shown as a decrease in cash flow from operations and an increase in cash flow from investing activities to reflect the nature of the transactions. This gain on the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal was partially offset by an increase in depreciation, amortization of intangible asset and a $3,281,000 loss on extinguishment of debt related to the retirement of the 2019 Promissory Notes. The net increase of net cash provided by (used in) investment activities continuing operations of $5,736,000 was primarily due to the cash proceeds of the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal and the cash proceeds from the note receivable issued in connection with the sale of AOC Key Solutions. Net cash provided by financing activities continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased $18,060,000 from the prior year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, $29,930,000 cash was provided by financing activities related to the issuance of our common stock as part of the at-the-market agreement. In 2020, this amount was offset by $7,226,000 of cash outflows related to the modification and retirement of the 2019 Promissory Notes. During the year ended December 31, 2019, cash provided by financing activities was related to the $3,839,000 proceeds from the 2019 Promissory Notes issued the first quarter of 2019 and $2,949,000 related to the at-the-market agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we funded our operations primarily through cash from operating activities from our subsidiaries, secured borrowing arrangements, issuance of debt, the sale of our subsidiaries and the sale of equity. As of December 31, 2020, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations of $20,595,000 and working capital of $18,324,000, as compared to unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $1,075,000 and a working capital deficit of $1,786,000 as of December 31, 2019. Performance Obligations Operating assets and liabilities consist primarily of receivables from billed and unbilled services, accounts payable, accrued expenses, secured borrowing arrangements, and accrued payroll and related benefits. The volume of billings and timing of collections and payments affect these account balances. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $16,705,000 of contracts that were closed prior to December 31, 2020 but have a contractual period beyond December 31, 2020. These contracts generally cover a term of one to five years, in which the Company will recognize revenue ratably over the contract term. We currently expect to recognize approximately 30% of this amount over the succeeding twelve months, and the remainder is expected to be recognized over the following five years. On occasion our customers will prepay the full contract or a substantial portion of the contract. Amounts related to the prepayment of the contract for a service period that is not yet met are recorded as part of our contract liabilities balance. 43 We have experienced growth of 65% in the remaining value of contracts from December 31, 2019 through December 31, 2020. The table below shows the quarter by quarter growth in contract value (dollars in thousands): Series A Preferred Stock The holders of Rekor Series A Preferred Stock were entitled to quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.175 (7% per annum) per share. Dividends accrued quarterly and dividend payments for declared dividends were due within five business days following the end of a quarter. Subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2020, the Series A Preferred Stock and accrued dividends related to the Series A Preferred Stock were automatically converted into shares of our common stock, pursuant to the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock Certificate of Designations. Series B Preferred Stock As part of the acquisition of TeamGlobal, we issued 240,861 shares of $0.0001 par value Series B Preferred Stock. All Series B Preferred Stock was issued at a price of $10.00 per share with a conversion price of $5.00 per share. Each Series B Preferred Stock had an automatic conversion feature based on our common stock share price. The Series B Preferred Stock was entitled to quarterly cash dividends of 1.121% (4.484% per annum) per share. Dividends accrued quarterly and dividend payments for declared dividends were due within five business days following the end of a quarter. Subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2020, the Series B Preferred Stock and accrued dividends related to the Series B Preferred Stock were converted into shares of our common stock, pursuant to the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock Certificate of Designations. Promissory Notes On March 12, 2019, we issued the 2019 Promissory Notes and the March 2019 Warrants to investors, including OpenALPR Technology, Inc. (the 2019 Lenders) . The loan was due and payable on March 11, 2021. In March 2020, we received an extension of the maturity date of the loan until June 12, 2021. In June 2020, we received an extension of the maturity date of the loan until December 31, 2021. The loan bore interest at 16% per annum, of which at least 10% per annum was required to be paid in cash. The full remaining portion of all interest, if any, accrued and was to be paid-in-kind (PIK). The notes also required a premium, if paid before the maturity date, a $1,000,000 exit fee due at maturity, and compliance with affirmative, negative and financial covenants. 44 On June 30, 2020, we entered into the Exchange Agreements with certain holders of our 2019 Promissory Notes. Under the Exchange Agreements, approximately $17,398,000 of the 2019 Promissory Notes was redeemed in exchange for 4,349,497 shares of our common stock, at a rate of $4 per share (the Note Exchange). At the time of the Note Exchange the net amount of long-term debt redeemed for common stock was $14,688,000, this included the existing principal balance subject to conversion, the portion of the exit fee associated with the notes subject to conversion, offset by the portion of unamortized issuance costs associated with the notes subject to conversion. There was also $226,000 related to the PIK interest associated to the notes subject to conversion that was exchanged as part of the Note Exchange. The difference between the market value of the shares issued and the net carrying amount of the obligations above, was recorded as part of debt extinguishments costs in the consolidated statement of operations. On September 16, 2020, we issued a cash payment for the remaining aggregate principal balance of the 2019 Promissory Notes. As a result of this optional prepayment, the 2019 Promissory Notes, have been fully redeemed pursuant to their terms, and as a result we have no further obligations under the Note Purchase Agreement, as amended. As of December 31, 2020, a total of 81,250 warrants previously issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, as amended, remain outstanding pursuant to their terms. At-the-Market Offering On August 14, 2019, we entered into the Sales Agreement with B. Riley FBR, Inc. (B. Riley FBR) to create an at-the-market equity program under which we, from time to time offered and sold shares of our common stock, having an aggregate offering price of up to $15,000,000, through or to B. Riley FBR. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Sales Agreement, B. Riley FBR used its commercially reasonable efforts to sell the shares of our common stock from time to time, based upon our instructions. B. Riley FBR was entitled to a commission equal to 3.0% of the gross proceeds from each sale. We incurred issuance costs of approximately $226,000 related to legal, accounting, and other fees in connection with the Sales Agreement. These costs were charged against the gross proceeds of the Sales Agreement and presented as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets. On August 28, 2020, we filed Amendment No. 1 to the Sales Agreement dated August 14, 2019 to increase the size of the market equity program under which we, from time to time offered and sold shares of our common stock, from an aggregate offering price of up to $15,000,000 to an amended maximum aggregate offering price of up to $40,000,000 through or to B. Riley FBR. We incurred issuance costs of approximately $25,000 related to legal fees in connection with the amendment to the Sales Agreement. Sales of the Companys common stock under the Sales Agreement were issued and sold pursuant to the Companys shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No 333-224423), previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 24, 2018 and declared effective by the SEC on April 30, 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2020, based on settlement date, we sold 5,216,562 shares of common stock at a weighted-average selling price of $5.92 per share in accordance with the Sales Agreement. Net cash provided for the year ended December 31, 2020 from the Sales Agreement was $29,930,000 after paying 3.0% or $926,000 related to cash commissions provided to B. Riley FBR. On September 21, 2020, we elected to voluntarily terminate the Sales Agreement with B. Riley FBR pursuant to the terms of the Sales Agreement. As of the termination, we had offered and sold an aggregate of 6,509,202 shares of common stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement, which resulted in aggregate gross proceeds of $34,154,000. Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources or capital expenditures. 45 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon Rekors consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance US GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the management of Rekor to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. We believe the application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required therein, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are periodically reevaluated, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Rekor bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management of Rekor believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form managements basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that may not be readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, or if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. Our accounting policies are further described in its historical audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products and services. If the consideration promised in the contract includes a variable amount, for example maintenance fees related to hardware, we include an estimate of the amount we expect to receive for the total transaction price, if it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. We determine the amount of revenue to be recognized through application of the following steps: Identify the contract with a customer Identify the performance obligations in the contract Determine the transaction price Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract Recognize revenue when or as performance obligations are satisfied We generate revenue from our licensing and subscription agreements and automated traffic and safety enforcement agreements. Licensing and subscription revenue Our licensing and subscription revenues are derived principally from fees for technology products and services, including software licenses and subscriptions, hardware leases and sales, and other related support services. Licensing and subscription services include providing, through a web server, access to our proprietary vehicle recognition software, a self-managed database and a powerful, cross-platform application programming interface. 46 During the second quarter of 2019, we changed our primary method of selling software from perpetual software licenses, with associated maintenance services, to service subscriptions of limited duration. These subscriptions give the customer access to the use of the latest version of our software only during the term of the subscription. Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term. Our subscription services arrangements are non-cancelable and do not contain refund-type provisions. Revenues from our perpetual software licenses are recognized up-front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer. Automated traffic safety enforcement Automated traffic safety enforcement revenues reflect arrangements to provide traffic safety systems to a number of municipalities in North America. Revenue is recognized monthly based on the number of camera systems that are operated, or the number of citations issued by the relevant municipality. We also install and maintain public safety systems, which may involve a combination of installation and lease payments or simply software licenses to use our software in connection with a previously installed camera network. Revenue is recognized at various stages of completion of installation and monthly for lease or license payments. For those contracts that have multiple performance obligations, we allocate the total transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price, which is determined based on our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are customer obligations due under normal trade terms. We perform continuing credit evaluations of our clients financial condition, and we generally do not require collateral. Management reviews accounts receivable to determine if any receivables will potentially be uncollectible. Factors considered in the determination include, among other factors, number of days an invoice is past due, client historical trends, available credit rating information, other financial data and the overall economic environment. Collection agencies may also be used if management so determines. We record an allowance for doubtful accounts based on specifically identified amounts that are believed to be uncollectible. We also record as an additional allowance a certain percentage of aged accounts receivable, based on historical experience and our assessment of the general financial conditions affecting its customer base. If actual collection experience changes, revisions to the allowance may be required. After all reasonable attempts to collect an account receivable have failed, the amount of the receivable is written off against the allowance. The balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts from continuing operations was $22,000 and $0 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Income Taxes We use the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth in the authoritative guidance for accounting for income taxes. This method requires an asset and liability approach for the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Management has evaluated the recoverability of the net deferred income tax assets and the level of the valuation allowance required with respect to such net deferred income tax assets. After considering all available facts, we fully reserved for our net deferred tax assets because management believes that it is more likely than not that their benefits will not be realized in future periods. We will continue to evaluate net deferred tax assets to determine whether any changes in circumstances could affect the realization of their future benefit. If it is determined in future periods that portions of the net deferred income tax assets satisfy the realization standard, the valuation allowance will be reduced accordingly. 47 The tax effects of uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial statements only if the position is more likely than not to be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. For tax positions meeting the more likely than not threshold, the amount recognized in the consolidated financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized. It is our accounting policy to account for Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740-10-25-related penalties and interest as a component of the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2020, and 2019, our evaluation revealed no uncertain tax positions that would have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. The 2017 through 2019 tax years remain subject to examination by the IRS, as of December 31, 2020. Our management does not believe that any reasonably possible changes will occur within the next twelve months that will have a material impact on the financial statements. Liquidity and Managements Plan For all annual and interim periods, management will assess going concern uncertainty in our consolidated financial statements to determine whether there is sufficient cash on hand and working capital, including available borrowings on loans, to operate for a period of at least one year from the date the consolidated financial statements are issued or available to be issued, which is referred to as the look-forward period, as defined in U.S. GAAP. As part of this assessment, based on conditions that are known and reasonably knowable to management, management will consider various scenarios, forecasts, projections, estimates and will make certain key assumptions. These assumptions including among other factors, the expected timing and nature of our programs and projected cash expenditures, our ability to delay or curtail these expenditures or programs and our ability to raise additional capital, if necessary, to the extent management has the proper authority to execute them and considers it probable that those implementations can be achieved within the look-forward period. We have generated losses since our inception in February 2017 and have relied on cash on hand, external bank lines of credit, the sale of a note, proceeds from the sale of common stock, proceeds from the private sale of our non-core subsidiaries, proceeds from note receivables, debt financings and a public offering of our common stock to support cashflow from operations. We attribute losses to public company corporate overhead and non-capital expenditures related to the scaling and development of new products and service offerings in connection with the focus on the technology of the Company. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company had a net loss from continuing operations of $13,962,000 and working capital of $18,324,000. Our net cash position was increased by $18,860,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 due primarily to the net proceeds of $29,930,000 from the At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") and the net cash proceeds of $6,300,000 from the sale of AOC Key Solutions and TeamGlobal, which includes the repayment of the $600,000 AOC Key Solutions Subordinate Note, offset by the net loss from operations in the period. As of September 21, 2020, we voluntarily terminated the Sales Agreement. On February 4, 2021, we entered into an underwriting agreement (the Underwriting Agreement) with B. Riley Securities, Inc. and Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (collectively, the Underwriters), pursuant to which we issued and sold, in a registered public offering by Rekor (the Public Offering), 6,126,936 shares of our common stock (which included 799,166 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the exercise of an overallotment option) at an offering price of $12.25 per share of common stock. In addition, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, we granted the Underwriters a 30-day option (the Overallotment Option) to purchase up to 799,166 additional shares of common stock. The Overallotment Option was exercised in full on February 8, 2021. Upon completion of the Underwriting Agreement, we raised over $70,000,000 in net cash proceeds in February 2021. We believe that based on relevant conditions and events that are known and reasonably knowable, our current forecasts and projections, for one year from the date of the filing of the consolidated financial statements in this Yearly Report on Form 10-K, indicate our ability to continue operations as a going concern for that one-year period. We are actively monitoring our operations, the cash on hand and working capital. Should access to funds be unavailable, we will need to seek out additional sources of funding. Furthermore, we have contingency plans to reduce or defer expenses and cash outlays should operations weaken in the look-forward period or additional financing, if needed, is not available. 48 Our ability to generate positive operating results and complete the execution of our business strategy will depend on (i) our ability to continue the growth of our technology business, (ii) the continued performance of our contractors, subcontractors and vendors, (iii) our ability to maintain and build good relationships with our lenders and financial intermediaries, (iv) our ability to maintain timely collections from existing customers, and (v) the stabilization of the world economy and global financial markets. To the extent that events outside of our control have a significant negative impact on economic and/or market conditions, they could affect payments from customers, services and supplies from vendors, our ability to continue to secure and implement new business, raise capital, and otherwise, depending on the severity of such impact, materially adversely affect our operating results. Our operations have been affected by the recent and ongoing outbreak of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020. The impact has resulted in a slowdown in our rate of growth and includes disruptions in the delivery and installation of equipment, slower than expected contract approvals and implementation of projects by our customers, the need for employees to work remotely, restrictions on travel affecting our ability to attend meetings, conferences, consultations and installations and otherwise provide and market our products and services, and disruptions to our customers' operations which may affect our revenues. We benefited from the financing under the CARES Act. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the pandemic and the ultimate disruption that may be caused by the outbreak is uncertain. Possible additional effects may include, but are not limited to, continuing disruption to our customers and revenue, absenteeism in our labor workforce, unavailability of products and supplies used in operations, and a decline in value of assets held by us. As a result, the pandemic may result in a material adverse impact on our financial position, operations and cash flow. New Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 Business and Significant Accounting Policies