Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we deem immaterial may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors Some of the material risks that we face include: We operate in a highly competitive and evolving industry and may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors that employ a variety of existing business models and technologies or new innovations; We may not be able to innovate, improve existing products, or develop new products that achieve acceptance; We partner with third parties to support fulfillment of our service, including risk management, payment processing, customer support, cloud hosting, and disbursement, which exposes us to risks outside of our control; Cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, or other similar incidents such as phishing; We are subject to numerous privacy and cybersecurity laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, and other obligations across multiple jurisdictions which are highly complex, overlapping, frequently changing, and which create compliance challenges; Use of our service for illegal or fraudulent activities could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects; Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and sanctions laws, anti-terrorist financing laws, anti-money laundering laws, and similar laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences; We are exposed to the risk of loss or insolvency if our disbursement partners fail to disburse funds according to our instructions or were to become insolvent unexpectedly or funds are disbursed before customer funds are guaranteed to be sufficient; If there is any material change of service terms or loss of coverage in our payment processors and disbursement network, our business could be harmed; If our disbursement partners do not provide a positive recipient experience, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be harmed; Risks associated with operations outside the United States and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects; If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected; If one or more of our counterparties, including financial institutions, aggregators, and local cash pick-up institutions where we have cash on deposit, or our lenders and potential hedging counterparties, default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur material losses; and Our customers and business operations in countries and regions that account for a significant amount of our send volume and our operations are exposed to rapid changes in laws and the enforcement of laws, macroeconomic conditions, and geopolitical developments that expose us to a risk of loss and that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. 12 TableofContents Business and Industry Risks We operate in a highly competitive and evolving industry and may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors that employ a variety of existing business models and technologies or new innovations. The industry for remittances is global, highly competitive, and fragmented and includes a mix of traditional and digital players. This includes monoline remittance companies as well as competitors that offer multiple financial services, including remittances. These competitors include traditional banks, digital-first cross-border payment providers, online-only banks, and cryptocurrency providers. Some competitors are significantly larger than we are and have longer operating histories, more scale and name recognition, and more resources to deploy. We also compete against smaller, country-specific companies, banks, and informal person-to-person money transfer service providers that may have more ability to effectively tailor products and services, marketing, and regulatory compliance to local preferences and requirements. Some of these competitors may introduce new products or services that render us unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers at prices that are consistent with our pricing model and operating budget. In addition, these competitors use a variety of funding, money measurement and pricing methodologies which may be more attractive to customers in some geographies or demographics. Our pricing strategy for our cross-border payments may also prove to be unappealing to our customers for other reasons, too. If this were to occur, it is possible that we would have to change our pricing strategies or reduce our prices, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. In addition, the broader financial services sector is experiencing rapid evolution in technologies, and there has recently been significant advancement in the development of neobanking, as well as other real-time payment technologies, including cryptocurrency and stablecoins. Any failure to timely anticipate changes in customer behavior related to new payment technologies, or to successfully integrate such technologies into our services, could harm our ability to compete and result in a loss of customers and corresponding loss of revenue. We may not be able to innovate, improve existing products, or develop new products that achieve acceptance. Our products and services rely on technology-driven systems that require innovation to remain competitive. Our process for innovation is complex and relies upon both internally developed and third-party technologies and services, including automation, machine learning and cloud-based and other emerging technologies. We may not be able to make product or technological improvements as quickly as our competitors and/or as demanded by our customers, or to market them effectively, which could harm our ability to attract or retain customers. This includes the incorporation of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies. In addition, we continue to develop new products and services, including products and services complementary to our current offerings, which requires ongoing investment. New products and services are inherently risky, due to, among other things, risks associated with the product or technology underlying the service not performing at all, or not performing as expected, customer acceptance, technological outages or failures, applicable legal and regulatory requirements, or failure to meet customer or industry expectations. As a result, we could experience increased claims, reputational damage, or other adverse effects, any of which could be material. The profile of potential customers using our new products and services also may not be as attractive as the profile of the customers that we currently serve, which may lead to higher customer acquisition costs or losses than we have historically experienced. Additionally, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to develop, commercially market, and achieve acceptance of any new products and services and we may also fail to accurately predict the demand for, or growth of, such offerings in the future. Finally, our investment of resources, including management attention and talent allocation, to develop new products and services, or make related changes or updates to our services, may either be insufficient or result in expenses or losses of alternative growth opportunities that exceed the revenue actually generated from these new offerings. It is also possible that these new products may not return our investment or be profitable, or may experience disruptions in development or availability as a result of a variety of factors outside our control, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. See the section titled Risk FactorsGeneral Risks. Additionally, the majority of our customers access our products through our website and mobile app, and we must ensure that our offerings are optimized for such devices and that our mobile apps are interoperable with popular third-party mobile operating systems such as Google Android and Apple iOS. If we are unable to successfully and in a timely fashion innovate and improve our existing products and achieve acceptance, and continue to deliver a superior customer experience, our growth, business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be impacted. We have grown rapidly in recent years and have limited operating experience at our current scale of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business and operating results may be impacted. We also may not be able to sustain our growth rate in the future. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, which places substantial demands on our management and operational resources. We expect we will need to continue to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures to manage this growth. 13 TableofContents Further, as we continue to grow, our business becomes increasingly complex and requires more resources. We have expended and anticipate continuing to expend, significant resources on expanding our infrastructure, streamlining our business and management processes, and expanding and streamlining other operational areas. Continued growth could strain our existing resources, and we could experience operating difficulties in managing our business across numerous jurisdictions. Failure to effectively scale could harm our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on our growth strategy. Our limited operating history and experience may also lead to deficiencies in our governance and operational structures, including with respect to our internal controls, resulting in inefficient decision-making, internal oversight, or other operational inefficiencies, regulatory risks, failures to identify and capitalize on growth opportunities, and reputational damage. If our controls, policies, and procedures are not fully effective or we are not successful in identifying and mitigating significant risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer uninsured liability, harm to our reputation, or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Further, as a public company listed in the United States, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, or as a result of stockholder activism, may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming. You should not rely on our growth rate in the number of customers, revenue, or send volume for any prior quarterly or annual periods as any indication of our future revenue, revenue growth, or other metrics of our financial performance. We partner with third parties to support fulfillment of our service, including risk management, payment processing, customer support, cloud hosting, and disbursement, which exposes us to risks outside of our control. We partner with a variety of third parties to fulfill our services. For example, we integrate third-party technologies into our proprietary customer due diligence and risk management systems and information security program, and we also partner with an extensive network of third parties to deliver payment processing for customers and disbursement of funds to recipients. In addition, in certain regions there is a limited number of third-party service providers capable of processing payments on our behalf. Any failure or disruption to the services provided by these third parties could cause disruption or delay the delivery of our services and negatively impact our customer experience. Our third-party partners also support our business operations and processes, including customer support services, from their various locations around the world. If such third-party partners choose to cease or otherwise become unable to provide the business process support services for which they are contracted by us, we risk having delays in customer service or other interruptions in our business operations, which can have a detrimental effect on our reputation and ultimately lead to a loss of customers. In addition, some of these third parties process personal information and customer payments subject to our security requirements. Any failure of these parties to implement and operate adequate privacy, cybersecurity, business continuity, fraud controls, or other internal controls, or any failure of ours to identify and require remediation of weaknesses in these areas, could result in significant liability or financial loss to our customers and us. We could face regulatory or governmental consequences for any significant failure caused by such partners as well as substantial costs associated with remediation of harm, either due to legal requirements or customer experience management. In many cases, we may elect to correct such errors even where not legally or contractually required to do so in order to retain customer loyalty and maintain our brand. If we, our partners, or our industry generally are unable to provide a high-quality and secure customer experience in the various locales in which we operate, our brand could suffer reputational damage and our business results could be harmed. Our business is largely driven by and reliant on customer trust in our handling of money remittances. The pricing and reliability of our service, the security of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our customers, and a responsive and effective customer support function are each critical elements for the maintenance of this trust. Any significant interruption in either our internal or our partners risk management, payment processing, or disbursement systems could reduce customer confidence in our services. In addition, any actual or reported cyberattack, cybersecurity breach, service outage, or other similar incident with respect to our systems or networks, or violation of our privacy or cybersecurity policies, or applicable legal, regulatory, or contractual obligations that results in a compromise of customer data or causes customers to believe their data has been compromised could have a significant negative effect on our business. Legal claims and regulatory enforcement actions could also arise in response to these events, which would further exacerbate erosion of customer trust and potentially result in operating losses and liabilities. If we are unable to maintain affordable pricing, deliver services reliably and securely, or address customer support issues in an effective and timely manner, our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects could be harmed. In addition, any erosion in confidence in digital financial service providers as a means to transfer money generally could have a similar negative effect on us. 14 TableofContents We transfer large sums of customer funds daily, and are subject to the risk of loss due to errors or fraudulent or illegitimate activities of customers or third parties, any of which could result in financial losses or damage to our reputation and trust in our brand, which would harm our business and financial results. Our business is subject to the risk of financial losses as a result of operational errors, fraudulent activity, employee misconduct, or other similar actions or errors on our or our partners solutions. Such behavior, either by our employees, vendors, counterparties, or other third parties, may include fraudulent actions, breaches of applicable laws, rules, regulations, as well as contractual obligations, including confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements, or failure to adhere to our policies and procedures or those of our partners and other counterparties. We have been, in the past, and will continue to be, subject to losses due to software errors in our systems and operational errors by our employees and third-party service providers. In addition, we also are regularly targeted by parties who seek to commit acts of financial fraud, using a variety of techniques, including stolen bank accounts, compromised business email accounts, employee fraud, account takeover, and false account creation. We are also routinely targeted for illegitimate transactions, including transactions to facilitate money laundering, and transactions in which customers authorize transfers requested by third parties under false or misleading pretenses (scams). These risks are inherently greater for us because many of our corridors for remittances are from developed to developing economies, which have traditionally been highly targeted by bad actors perpetrating fraud or other unwanted activity. We also in certain instances have a business practice of transferring money to recipients before funds are actually received from our customers, which also increases these risks. The methods used to perpetrate these illegal activities are continually evolving, and we expend considerable resources to detect, monitor, and prevent them. Our risk management efforts may not effectively prevent, and we may suffer losses from, these errors and activities and, in some cases, our usual risk allocation agreements and insurance coverages may not be sufficient to cover these losses. We have experienced transaction losses of $57.9 million, or 0.11%, $39.0 million, or 0.10%, and $41.9 million, or 0.15%, of total send volume in connection with such errors, fraud, and misconduct in the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. We expect that losses of similar or greater magnitude may occur again in the future. If any of these errors or illegitimate or fraudulent activities are significant, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions and termination of services provided by third parties and suffer significant losses or reputational harm, and our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be adversely affected. Our failure to manage our customer funds properly could materially harm our business. We hold a substantial amount of funds belonging to our customers, including funds in process of being remitted, at third-party financial institutions. We hold, and in certain jurisdictions are required to hold and segregate, eligible assets equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer funds held by our licensed entities. Our ability to manage and accurately account for the assets underlying our customer funds and comply with applicable asset requirements and applicable regulations requires a high level of internal controls. As our business continues to grow and we expand our product offerings, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. Our success requires our customers confidence in our ability to properly manage customer balances and handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain the necessary controls or to appropriately manage our customer funds in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements could result in reputational harm, lead customers to discontinue or reduce their use of our services and products, and result in significant penalties and fines and additional restrictions, which could materially harm our business. We have a history of operating losses and there is no assurance that our business will become consistently profitable. We were incorporated in 2011 and we have experienced annual net losses since inception. We generated net losses of $37.0 million, $117.8 million, and $114.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. While we have experienced significant revenue increases, achieved profitability on an Adjusted EBITDA basis in recent periods, and achieved profitability on a GAAP basis in the third quarter of 2024, if the assumptions we use to plan our business are incorrect or change, or if we are unable to maintain consistent revenue, it may be difficult to maintain profitability. Our revenue from any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. We have historically spent, and intend to continue to spend, significant funds to further develop and secure our services, develop new products and functionalities, invest in marketing programs to drive new customer acquisition, expand strategic partner integrations, and support international expansion into new payment corridors. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. We will also face increased compliance and security costs associated with growth, the expansion of our customer base and corridors, and being a public company. Our financial performance each quarter is also impacted by circumstances beyond our control, such as corridor mix, revenue mix, and seasonality. We may incur significant losses in the future for several reasons, including the other risks described herein, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to sustain profitability, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects may be adversely affected. Our recent rapid growth, including growth in our volume of payments, may not be indicative of our future growth. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. Our revenue was $1,264.0 million, $944.3 million, and $653.6 million, and our send volume was $54.6 billion, $39.5 billion, and $28.6 billion, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Although a large market segment for remittance services remains untapped by us, we have recently experienced significant growth in our revenue and send volume. However, even if our revenue continues to increase, we expect that our growth rate will likely decline in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the increasing scale of our business. Overall growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: maintain the rates at which customers transact on our service; attract new customers; 15 TableofContents expand the functionality and scope of the products we offer, including by successfully developing and commercializing products and services complementary to our current offerings; price our services competitively; maintain high-quality, highly available products; maintain trust with our customers; maintain our brand recognition and reputation; maintain send volume; provide our customers with high-quality customer support that meets their needs; introduce our services in new payment corridors and jurisdictions, including maintaining existing and obtaining new money transmitter and payment services licenses; localize our services; successfully identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our product suite; and successfully compete with other companies. We may not successfully accomplish any of these objectives, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our future operating results. If the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our industry, or if we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to sustain profitability. Additionally if we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the factors listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our growth rate may be adversely affected. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual periods as any indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. Cybersecurity, Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Technology Risks Cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, or other similar incidents could result in serious harm to our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects, including by triggering regulatory action or a breach of our agreements with significant partners that we rely on to deliver our services. Cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, and other similar incidents continue to increase in frequency and severity, evolve in nature, and become more sophisticated (including through the increased use of AI), and may evade detection for substantial periods of time. Moreover, we regularly encounter attempts to create false or undesirable accounts or take other actions on our systems for purposes such as spamming, spreading misinformation, or other objectionable ends. Threats to our computer systems and networks and those of third parties with whom we partner come from a variety of sources, including organized criminal threat actors, terrorists, hacktivists, nation states, state-sponsored organizations, and other external threat actors with significant financial and technological resources, any of which may see the effectiveness of their efforts enhanced by the use of AI. In addition, working from home and using private residential networks to access the internet may further exacerbate risks associated with cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, and other similar incidents as private work environments and electronic connections to our work environment may not have the same security measures as those deployed in our offices. We, like other financial technology organizations, have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, cybersecurity incidents, including, among other things, advanced and persisting cyberattacks, ransomware, cyber extortion, phishing, and social engineering schemes, the introduction of computer viruses or other malware, computer hacking, fraudulent use attempts (including attempts to create false or undesirable accounts or take other actions on our service for purposes such as spamming, spreading misinformation, or other objectionable ends), denial-of-service attacks, credential stuffing, and the physical destruction of all or portions of our IT infrastructure and those of third parties with whom we partner, due to, among other things, human error, fraud, malice, malfeasance, insider threats, system errors or vulnerabilities, accidental technological failure, or other irregularities on the part of employees, contractors, vendors, or other third parties. Because we rely on third parties in our business, we rely on the cybersecurity practices and policies adopted by such third parties, including our disbursement partners and downstream service providers. Our ability to monitor the cybersecurity practices of third parties with whom we partner is limited, and there can be no assurance that we can prevent, mitigate, or remediate the risk of any compromise or failure in the systems or networks owned or controlled by such third parties. Additionally, any contractual protections with such third parties, including our right to indemnification, if any at all, may be limited or insufficient to prevent a negative impact on our business from such compromise or failure. Any such compromises or failures with respect to our systems or networks, including the systems or networks owned or controlled by third parties with whom we partner, could, among other things: cause interruptions to our service; compromise the privacy, confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the data, including personal information, in such systems and networks; degrade the user experience; cause users to lose confidence and trust in our service; impair our internal systems and networks; harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; and otherwise result in financial harm to us. A cyberattack, cybersecurity breach, service outage, or other similar incident could lead to, among other things, any of the following: monetary and other losses for us or our customers; identity theft for our customers; the inability to expand our business; 16 TableofContents additional oversight, assessments, audits, scrutiny, restrictions, fines, or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities; loss of customers and customer confidence in our services; declines in user growth or engagement; exposure to civil litigation (including civil claims, such as representative actions and other class action-type litigation); orders to cease or change our processing of our data; a breach of our contracts with lenders or other third parties; termination of services provided to us; or liquidity risks or a negative impact on our relationships with our financial services providers, including payment processors or relevant network organizations, disbursement partners, and other third parties. Further, we could be forced to expend significant financial and operational resources in response to such incidents, including repairing system damage, increasing security costs, investigating and remediating any cybersecurity vulnerabilities, complying with data breach notification obligations and applicable laws and regulations, and defending against and resolving legal and regulatory claims, all of which could divert resources and the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations. Our efforts to remediate or mitigate any such incident may also be unsuccessful due to, among other things: software bugs or other technical malfunctions; employee, contractor, or third-party error or malfeasance; government surveillance; or other threats that evolve. As a result, any cyberattack, cybersecurity breach, service outage, or other similar incident could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. While we maintain insurance policies, our coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for all losses caused by cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, or other similar incidents, and any such incidents may result in increased costs for such insurance. We also cannot ensure that our existing cybersecurity insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover the successful assertion of one or more large claims against us, continue to be available on acceptable terms, or at all, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. For additional information, see Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods, public health crises (including epidemics or pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic), and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, or other similar incidents, internal or third-party system failures, political unrest, market or currency disruptions, and terrorism, which could result in system and process failures and interruptions which could harm our business. We are subject to numerous privacy and cybersecurity laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, and other obligations across multiple jurisdictions which are highly complex, overlapping, frequently changing, and which create compliance challenges that may expose us to substantial costs, liabilities, or loss of customer trust. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with these obligations could harm our business. The various privacy and cybersecurity laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, and other obligations with which we must comply, including with respect to technologies, such as cloud computing, AI, and machine learning, are complex and evolving. In addition, state, federal, and foreign lawmakers and regulatory authorities have increased their attention on the collection, use, receipt, storage, transmission, disclosure, and other processing of personal information, and increasing fraudulent activity and cyberattacks have encouraged further legislative and regulatory intervention in the financial technology industry. Moreover, many jurisdictions in which we operate have or are developing laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of sensitive and personal information. Further, we have internal and publicly posted privacy policies regarding our collection, use, receipt, storage, transmission, disclosure, and other processing of personal information, and the publication of such privacy policies and other documentation that provide commitments about privacy and cybersecurity can subject us to potential enforcement actions and litigation if they are found to be deceptive, unfair, or otherwise misrepresentative of our actual practices. Our agreements with third parties, including significant agreements with payment processors, credit card and debit card issuers, and bank partners, contain contractual commitments with which we are required to adhere related to privacy and cybersecurity. Compliance with such laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, and other obligations requires that we expend significant resources, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully comply with all such privacy and cybersecurity obligations, especially where they do or may in the future conflict with one another, nor can we predict the extent to which such new and evolving regulatory and legal requirements will impact our business strategies and the cost or availability of previously useful personal information, increase our potential liability and compliance costs, require changes in business practices and policies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our failure to adequately address privacy and cybersecurity-related concerns, even if unfounded, or to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, and other obligations could result in regulatory or government investigations, monetary penalties, fines, sanctions, claims, litigation (including civil claims, such as representative actions and other class action-type litigation), orders to cease or change our processing of personal information, enforcement notices, assessment notices (for a compulsory audit), compensation or damages liabilities, increased cost of operations, changes to our business practices (including changes to the manner in which we transfer personal information between and among countries and regions in which we operate or the manner in which we provide our services and the geographical location or segregation of our relevant systems and operations), declines in user growth or engagement, or diversion of internal resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. For additional discussion about privacy and cybersecurity and the legal and regulatory environment that we operate in, please see the section titled BusinessPrivacy and Cybersecurity. 17 TableofContents Any significant interruption or failure of our system availability, including failure to successfully implement upgrades or new technologies to our mobile app or website, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. The efficient and uninterrupted operation of technologies that we use to deliver our services is essential for the customer experience. This includes maintaining ready customer access and acceptable load times for our services at all times. Our systems and operations and those of third-party partners have experienced and may experience in the future interruptions or degradation of service availability due to a variety of events including cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, and other similar incidents, insider threats, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, development delays, installation difficulties, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, and other natural disasters, public health crises (including epidemics or pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic), power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, or other events. In addition, our service is currently vulnerable to downtime should a major physical disaster or other event affect the west coast of the United States, where our cloud services provider is based and our physical system architecture resides. While we have backups for these systems, our service would be unavailable for some time were our normal systems to go down. Further, some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery program has not been fully tested and may not be sufficient for all eventualities. To the extent we cannot effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems, or implement redundant systems as needed, and continually develop our technology to maintain sufficient system availability, new or existing customers may seek other services and may not return to our services as often in the future, or at all. If our service is unavailable when customers attempt to access it or it does not load as quickly as they expect, customers may lose trust in our service or determine that our services are unreliable or too slow to meet their needs. This would harm our ability to attract new customers and could decrease the frequency with which existing customers use our website and mobile solutions. As a result, our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects could be harmed. If we are unable to adequately obtain, maintain, protect, defend, or enforce our IP Rights, our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects could be harmed. Our brand and proprietary technology, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, patents, trade secrets, and other IP Rights that support that brand are important to our business. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of intellectual property laws, technological restrictions, provisions in our terms of service, and contractual provisions including confidentiality, invention assignment, and license agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, and other third parties with whom we partner, to establish and protect our brand, proprietary technology, and other IP Rights. Such contractual provisions may not be self-executing and may not otherwise adequately protect our IP Rights, particularly with respect to conflicts of ownership relating to work product generated by employees, contractors, consultants, or other third parties with whom we partner, and we cannot be certain that such contractual provisions will not be breached or that third parties will not gain access to our trade secrets or other confidential information. Effective protection of our IP Rights may not be available in every jurisdiction in which we offer our services and, where such laws are available, our efforts to protect such rights may not be sufficient or effective and such rights may be found invalid or unenforceable or narrowed in scope. In particular, the laws of some foreign countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of IP Rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of our IP Rights. Any failure to adequately obtain, maintain, protect, defend, or enforce our IP Rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. Our use and provision of AI-powered solutions could lead to operational or reputational damage, legal and regulatory risk, and additional costs. We use AI in certain aspects of our business and operations, including in our Help Centers virtual assistant. There are evolving risks involved in utilizing AI and no assurance can be provided that the usage of such AI-powered solutions will enhance our business, help our operations become more effective, efficient, or profitable, or otherwise result in our intended outcomes. The models underlying our AI-powered solutions may be incorrectly or inadequately designed or implemented. They may also be trained on, or otherwise use, biased, incomplete, inaccurate, misleading, or poor-quality data or algorithms, any of which may not be easily detectable. AI-powered solutions may also be adversely impacted by unforeseen defects, technical challenges, cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages or other similar incidents, or material performance issues. Accordingly, our use of AI-powered solutions may inadvertently reduce our effectiveness and efficiency or generate unintentional or unexpected outputs (including any AI-generated content, analyses, or recommendations) that are, or are perceived to be, biased, incomplete, inaccurate, misleading, poor-quality, unethical, or otherwise deficient or flawed, do not match our business goals, standards, or values, do not comply with our policies or procedures, harm our brand or reputation, negatively impact customers or partners, or otherwise interfere with the performance of our business. Further, our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their business or operations more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively. 18 TableofContents We may not have adequate rights to use the data on which our AI-powered solutions rely. To the extent that we do not have sufficient rights to use the data used in, or produced by, the AI-powered solutions employed in our business and operations, we may be subject to litigation by the owners of the content or other materials that comprise such data. Further, any content or other output created by us using AI-powered solutions may not be subject to copyright protection, which may adversely affect our ability to commercialize or use, or the validity or enforceability of any IP Rights in, such content or other output. In addition, the use of AI by other companies has resulted in, and our use of AI may in the future result in, cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages or other similar incidents, including those that implicate the confidential and personal information of users of AI-powered solutions. If any of our employees, contractors, third-party providers, or other third parties with whom we partner input confidential or personal information while using any third-party AI-powered solution in connection with our business or the products, solutions, and services they provide to us, such practice may lead to the inadvertent disclosure of such confidential or personal information, which may impact our ability to realize the benefit of, or adequately obtain, maintain, protect, defend, and enforce our IP Rights in, such information or otherwise harm our competitive position, reputation, or business. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to legal liability or regulatory risks, including with respect to third-party IP Rights or privacy, publicity, contractual, or other rights. Regulation of AI is rapidly evolving worldwide as legislatures and regulators are increasingly focusing on these emerging technologies. For example, the European Unions Artificial Intelligence Act (the AI Act) establishes, among other things, a risk-based governance framework for regulating AI systems operating in the EU. This framework categorizes AI systems, based on the risks associated with such AI systems intended purposes, as creating unacceptable or high risks, with all other AI systems being considered limited or low risk. There is a risk that our current or future AI-powered solutions may obligate us to comply with the applicable requirements of the AI Act, which may impose additional costs on us, increase our risk of liability and fines, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Further, public and regulatory focus on ethical use and privacy and cybersecurity concerns regarding AI could lead to reputational damage if we fail, or are perceived to fail, to align with societal expectations or regulatory standards relating to the use of AI. Such scrutiny may result in financial or other penalties and may also erode customer trust. Although we take steps designed to mitigate the risks associated with the use of AI in our business and operations, our use of AI may present ethical, reputational, technical, operational, legal, competitive, or regulatory risks, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. If we fail to comply with our obligations under license or technology agreements with third parties, or if we cannot license rights to use technologies on reasonable terms, we could be required to pay damages, lose license rights that are critical to our business, or be unable to commercialize new products and services in the future. We license certain third-party IP Rights that are important to our business, including technologies, data, content, and software from third parties, and in the future, we may license additional valuable third-party IP Rights. If we fail to comply with any of the obligations under our license agreements, we may be required to pay damages and the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, which would cause us to lose valuable rights and could prevent us from selling our products and services or inhibit our ability to commercialize current or future products and services. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses or other grants of rights to us terminate, if the licensors (or other applicable counterparties) fail to abide by the terms of the license or other applicable agreement, if the licensors fail to maintain, protect, defend, or enforce the licensed IP Rights against infringing third parties, or if the licensed IP Rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable. Third parties from whom we currently license IP Rights could refuse to renew our agreements upon their expiration or could impose additional terms and fees that we otherwise would not deem acceptable requiring us to obtain IP Rights from another third party, if any are available, or to pay increased licensing fees or be subject to additional restrictions on our use of such third-party IP Rights. In the future, we may also identify additional third-party IP Rights that we may need to license or otherwise obtain rights to, in order to conduct our business, including to develop or commercialize new products and services. However, such licenses or other grants of rights may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The licensing or acquisition of third-party IP Rights is a competitive area, and several more established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third-party IP Rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources, and greater development or commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign, license, or otherwise grant rights to us. Even if such licenses or other grants of rights are available, we may be required to pay the licensor (or other applicable counterparty) substantial royalties, which may affect the margins on our products and services. In addition, such licenses or other grants of rights may be non-exclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same IP Rights licensed to us. Failure to obtain the necessary licenses or otherwise obtain adequate grants of rights on favorable terms, or at all, could prevent us from commercializing products and services or otherwise inhibit our ability to commercialize current or future products and services, which could impact our competitive position, business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. 19 TableofContents Assertions by third parties of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations by us of their IP Rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Intellectual property disputes are common in our industry. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect, defend, or enforce our IP Rights, and we may be subject to claims by third parties that we have infringed, misappropriated, or otherwise violated their IP Rights. Some companies in our industry, including some of our competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets which they may use to assert claims against us. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of IP Rights against us, as we have and may in the future do so against them. As the number of services and competitors in our industry increases and overlaps occur, claims of infringement, misappropriation, and other violations of IP Rights may increase. Claims of infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of IP Rights by a third party, even those without merit, have caused us to incur costs defending against the claims, and could in the future cause us to incur costs defending against the claims and could distract our management. In addition, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to: pay substantial damages; cease making, licensing, or using products or services that are alleged to infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate the IP Rights of others; expend additional development resources to attempt to redesign our products and services or otherwise develop non-infringing technology, which may not be successful; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or IP Rights; and indemnify our disbursement partners and other third parties with whom we partner. Royalty or license agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other expenditures. Any of these events could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Our use of open source and third-party technology could impose limitations on our ability to offer our products and services to customers. We use open source software in connection with our products and services and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. Some open source software licenses require those who distribute open source software as part of their own software product to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software product or to make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost, and we may be subject to such terms. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products and services to conditions we do not intend to accept, such use could inadvertently occur, or could be claimed to have occurred, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. Additionally, we could face claims from third parties seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. In such an event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products and services, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products and services, or to discontinue our products and services if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. The terms of certain open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our products and services. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. There is little legal precedent in this area and any actual or claimed requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could harm our business and could help third parties, including our competitors, develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. If we do not or cannot maintain the compatibility of our product offerings with the most popular mobile, desktop, and tablet device and browser platforms, our revenue and growth prospects may decline. Our customers access our product offerings increasingly through mobile phones and also through the use of various hardware devices, browser, and software platforms. If any of the device, browser, or software platforms that our product offerings depend upon change features of their application programming interfaces (APIs), discontinue their support of such APIs, restrict our access to their APIs, or alter the terms governing their use in a manner that is adverse to our business, we will not be able to provide compatible product offerings, which could significantly diminish the value of our product offerings and harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. The functionality and popularity of our product offerings depends, in part, on our ability to integrate our systems with the systems of our strategic partners. These strategic partners periodically update and change their systems, and although we have been able to adapt our systems to their evolving needs in the past, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. While we have multiple API integrations and certain partner redundancies built into our systems, if we are unable to adapt to the needs of our strategic partners systems, our remittance transaction process may be interrupted or delayed, and our strategic partners may terminate their agreements with us, leading to a loss of access to large numbers of customers at the same time and consequent negative impact on our growth and customer retention. 20 TableofContents Legal and Compliance Risks Any failure to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permissions, approvals, or registrations (Licenses) across our global footprint could adversely affect our operations. The provision of money transfer, payment, and stored value/e-money services is highly regulated, and the requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As an entity Licensed by various governmental authorities to provide certain of these services, we are subject to extensive financial, operational, and other regulatory requirements to maintain our Licenses and conduct business. These may include: net worth requirements; restrictions or obligations with respect to customer funds, including requirements to maintain insurance or reserves in an amount equivalent to outstanding payment obligations and restrictions on our investment of customer funds; bonding requirements; liquidity requirements; limitations on the amount and type of receivables we may be owed by our affiliates or third parties; requirements for regulatory approval of controlling stockholders; reporting requirements; anti-money laundering and countering the finance of terrorism compliance requirements; privacy and cybersecurity requirements; customer disclosure requirements; and monitoring, examination, and oversight by local, state, federal, and foreign regulatory agencies. Failure by us or our service providers to comply with any of these or related requirements or interpretation of them by governmental authorities could result in the suspension or revocation of a License required to provide money transfer, payment, stored value/e-money, or foreign exchange services; the limitation, suspension, or termination of services; changes to our business model; loss of consumer confidence; exposure to civil litigation (including civil claims, such as representative actions and other class action-type litigation); the seizure of our assets; and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. If our Licenses are not renewed or we are denied Licenses in additional jurisdictions where we choose to apply for a License, we could be forced to change our business practices or be required to bear substantial cost to comply with the requirements of the additional jurisdictions. Further, if we were found by these governmental authorities to be in violation of any applicable laws or regulations required to provide money transfer, payment, stored value/e-money or foreign exchange services, we could be subject to: fines, penalties, lawsuits, and enforcement actions; additional compliance requirements; increased regulatory scrutiny of our business; restriction or suspension of our operations; or damage to our reputation or brand. In addition, our regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as permissible investments or require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of eligible assets, which could have a financial and operational impact on our business. Regulatory requirements are constantly evolving, and we cannot predict whether we will be able to meet changes to existing regulations or the introduction of new regulations without harming our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Certain jurisdictions have enacted rules that require entities Licensed to provide money transfer, payment, and stored value/e-money services to establish and maintain transaction monitoring and filtering programs and privacy and cybersecurity programs. Wherever we are subject to these rules, we are required to adopt additional business practices that could also require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. If any governmental authority were to take actions that interfered with our ability to transfer money or provide our services reliablyincluding if they attempted to seize transaction funds or to limit or prohibit us, our payment processors, or our disbursement partners from transferring money in certain countries, whether by imposing sanctions or otherwisesuch actions could harm our business. Governmental authorities could also impose other orders, monetary penalties, or other sanctions on us. Any change to our business practices that makes our service less attractive to customers or prohibits use of our services by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease our transaction volume and harm our business. Our fees, profit margins, and/or our ability to offer foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry-wide or specifically targeted at our Company. The evolving policy and regulatory environmentincluding increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal, or foreign governments, and expectations regarding our compliance effortsimpacts the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape, and may adversely affect our financial results. Existing, new, and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has affected and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services. Recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the United States has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. In particular, the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has authority over Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) and among other things, consumer protection requirements under the Remittance Transfer Rule. The CFPB could modify the Remittance Transfer Rule or issue administrative guidance that may impose limitations on remittance providers, such as the type of fees charged by remittance companies, how remittances are advertised to consumers, how the exchange rate is applied to transactions by these companies, and the level of transparency surrounding such fees and exchange rates. Such changes may require us to assume fees and charges by third-party providers that are outside of our control. In addition, the CFPB administers other regulations and may adopt new regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures. The CFPBs authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or alter past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. These regulations, changes to these regulations, and other potential changes under CFPB regulations could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects, and force us to change the way we operate our business. 21 TableofContents There has also been an increase in the level and regulatory scrutiny of consumer protection laws, regulation, and supervisory guidance relating to treating customers fairly. These laws apply to our international business (including in the United Kingdom and the EEA). In the United Kingdom, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has issued, supervises, and enforces the Consumer Duty that places an obligation on firms to act to deliver good outcomes for retail customers. To achieve better customer outcomes, the FCA has issued a set of rules and guidance, among others, providing more detailed expectations for firms conduct that form part of an optimal firm-customer relationship that includes the price and value offered. Any changes by the FCAs and other regulatory authorities to such laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects, and/or change our business operations. Governmental authorities could also regulate foreign exchange rates or tax foreign exchange purchases in countries in which we do business, and this could harm our business. Similarly, if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be adversely affected. Furthermore, governmental agencies both in the United States and worldwide have imposed, and may impose new or additional rules on money transfers affecting us; our third-party providers, including our payment processors and disbursement partners; partner banks; or commercial counterparties, including regulations that: prohibit, restrict, and/or impose taxes or fees on remittance transactions in, to, or from certain countries or with certain governments, individuals, and entities; impose new requirements, change requirements, or re-interpret existing requirements regarding the acquisition of local currency for disbursement to recipients; impose additional customer identification or due diligence requirements, including requirements to verify the immigration or other status of customers; impose additional third-party provider due diligence and vendor management requirements; impose additional foreign exchange disclosures, reporting or recordkeeping requirements, or require enhanced transaction monitoring; limit the types of entities capable of providing remittance services, impose additional licensing or registration requirements on us, or our third-party providers, or impose additional requirements on us with regard to selection or oversight of our third-party providers; impose minimum capital or other financial requirements on us or our third-party providers; limit or restrict the revenue which may be generated from money transfers, including transaction fees and revenue derived from foreign exchange; require we provide additional consumer protection rights to our customers (including enhanced disclosures, treating customers fairly rules and consumer duties, and rights to refund in the event our customers authorize transactions under fraudulent or false pretenses); require the principal amount of money originated in a country to be invested in that country or held in a trust until they are paid; limit the number or principal amount of remittances, which may be sent to or from a jurisdiction, whether by an individual, through one third-party provider, or in aggregate; impose more stringent information technology, cybersecurity, privacy, and operational security requirements on us or our third-party providers and their service providers, including relating to data transfers and the use of cloud infrastructure; impose additional risk management and related governance and oversight requirements, including relating to the outsources of services to other group companies or to third parties; and prohibit or limit exclusive arrangements with our third-party providers. In addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations, or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and penalties. If the CFPB or other similar regulatory bodies adopt, or customer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for, positions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be harmed. The enhanced supervisory and compliance environment in the financial sector increases the risk of regulatory action against us, whether formal or informal. Our service is subject to a variety of laws and regulations worldwide, and a large number of regulatory and enforcement authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Regulators across the globe subject financial sector institutions, including us, to intense review, supervision, and scrutiny. This heightened level of review and scrutiny or any changes in the existing regulatory supervision framework increases the possibility that we will face adverse legal or regulatory actions. Regulators regularly review our operations, and there can be no guarantee that all regulators will agree with our internal assessments of compliance with applicable laws, regulations, or regulatory policies. We have been and continue to be subject to examination by the CFPB, which has defined participants of the international money transfer market that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers, such as Remitly, to be larger participants subject to such supervisory examination. The CFPB has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the CFPB. The CFPB has used information gained in these examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. 22 TableofContents Regulators, including the CFPB, may take formal or informal actions against us. Such formal or informal actions might force us to adopt new compliance programs or policies, remove personnel including senior executives, provide remediation or refunds to customers, or undertake other changes to our business operations. Any weaknesses in our compliance management system or Remittance Transfer Rule program may also subject us to penalties or enforcement action by the CFPB. If we fail to manage our legal and regulatory risk in the many jurisdictions in which we operate, our business could suffer, our reputation could be harmed, and we would be subject to additional legal and regulatory risks. This could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us and/or subject us to regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, or other proceedings, or lead to increased regulatory concerns. We may also be required to spend additional time and resources on remedial measures and conducting inquiries, beyond those already initiated and ongoing, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Similarly, a failure to comply with the applicable regulations in various jurisdictions by our employees, representatives, and third-party service providers either in or outside the course of their services, or suspected or perceived failures by them, may result in further inquiries or investigations by regulatory and enforcement authorities and in additional regulatory or enforcement action against either us, or such employees, representatives, and third-party service providers. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there are a number of risks that cannot be completely controlled. Our international presence, especially in high-risk jurisdictions such as the United Arab Emirates, the Philippines, and India, has led to increased legal and regulatory risks. Regulators in every jurisdiction in which we operate have the power to restrict our operations or bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us (or our employees, representatives, and third-party service providers), which could result, among other things, in suspension or revocation of one or more of our Licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. Expansion into additional jurisdictions also increases the complexity of our risks in a number of areas including currency risks, interest rate risks, compliance risk, regulatory risk, reputational risk, and operational risk. We, or our employees, may from time to time, and as is common in the financial services industry, be the subject of inquiries, examinations, or investigations that could lead to proceedings against us or our employees. Use of our service for illegal, improper, or fraudulent activities could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, reputation, and future prospects. Our service is susceptible to illegal, improper, or fraudulent uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions evasion, bank fraud, payments involving child pornography or human trafficking, consumer scams, and the facilitation of other illegal, improper, or fraudulent activity. The digital financial services industry is under increasing scrutiny from federal, state, and foreign regulators in connection with the potential for such illegal, improper, or fraudulent activities. We offer our customers the ability to fund transactions utilizing their credit card or debit card. We also offer bank funding and alternative payment methods. Because these are card-not-present/online/non face-to-face transactions, they involve a greater risk of fraud. We also release some funded transactions for disbursement prior to our receiving funds from our customers, which exposes us to repayment risk in the event that these customers have insufficient funds in their bank account or their transactions are otherwise invalidated. Additionally, we carry chargeback liability for a large portion of disputed card payment transactions. In addition, our remittance service facilitates payments to jurisdictions which may in some cases have higher levels of illegal or improper payments. For example, the United States to Colombia and United States to Nigeria payment corridors have historically been characterized by a high volume of fraudulent payments and are thus particularly high-risk. Our payment system may have been utilized for illegal, improper, and fraudulent uses in the past, and we cannot guarantee that our policies, procedures, and internal controls, or insurance, would adequately protect our business, maintain our continued ability to operate in the jurisdictions that we serve, or protect our reputation, especially if such illegal, improper, or fraudulent activities were discovered to have taken place on our service in the future. Our transaction loss expenses may increase if our fraud systems lose effectiveness or if new methods or schemes are developed to defraud us. Since the methods and schemes utilized by perpetrators of fraud are constantly evolving or, in some cases, not immediately detectable, we cannot assure you that our policies, procedures, and controls for managing fraud will be effective over time or of our ability to update these measures to address emerging fraud risks. In addition, if illicit, improper, or fraudulent activity levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to changes in liability regimes, regulatory intervention, and reputational and financial damage to us. This, in turn, could lead to government enforcement actions and investigations, a suspension or termination of our Licenses, a reduction in the use and acceptance of our services, or an increase in our compliance costs, any of which may harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. On the other hand, if the measures we have taken to detect illegal, improper, or fraudulent activities are too restrictive and/or inadvertently prevent or delay proper transactions, this could result in suspension of legitimate customer activity on our payment system, deter new and existing customers, or otherwise diminish our customer experience, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. 23 TableofContents Governments may decide to impose restrictions or levy new taxes on money transfers or other digital financial services provided by us, which would harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Our business could be harmed if a local, state, federal, or foreign government were to levy taxes on money transfers, as has been proposed periodically at the federal and state level in the United States. Budget shortfalls and sentiment towards immigration in the United States and many jurisdictions could lead other states and jurisdictions to impose similar fees and taxes, as well as increase unclaimed property obligations. Such fees or taxes, and any related regulatory initiatives, may be implemented in a manner that conflicts with other laws to which we are bound or in a manner with which we are unable to comply, and noncompliance could harm our business. It is possible that governments of one or more countries may seek to censor content available on our website and mobile solutions or may even attempt to completely block access to our website or mobile solutions. Adverse legal or regulatory developments could harm our business. In particular, in the event that we are restricted, in whole or in part, from operating in one or more countries, our ability to retain or increase our customer base may be harmed and we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue as anticipated. For example, the Central Bank of Nigeria previously imposed currency controls that limit repatriation of funds with immediate effect, which required money transmission businesses, including us, to make substantial adjustments to payments processes that serve Nigerian consumers. While we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political, and business environments in these areas are routinely changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings, or other events could expose us to increased liability, increased operating and compliance costs to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, and reputational damage. The risk of non-compliance is exacerbated when we introduce new products or services that subject us to new laws and regulations. In addition, as we expand and localize our international activities, we may become increasingly obligated to comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate remittances to a growing number of countries, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. Local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to our customers in those jurisdictions. Such regulatory actions or the need to obtain Licenses could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay in the provision or development of our services in a given jurisdiction, or could require significant and costly operational changes or prevent us from providing any services in a given jurisdiction. Additionally, external factors such as economic or political instability, or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible. These risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from disbursement partners, or to recoup funds that have been advanced to disbursement partners, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. In addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some developing countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our disbursement partners. Policy-makers have also discussed potential legislation to add taxes to remittances from the United States to Mexico and/or other countries. Further, one state and an unincorporated U.S. territory have passed laws imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed or are considering similar legislation. Several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions as well. The approach of policy-makers and the ongoing budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with future federal action or inaction on immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees or other requirements or restrictions. Foreign countries in similar circumstances have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service, or similar taxes, or other requirements or restrictions, on money transfer services. A tax, fee, or other requirement or restriction exclusively on money transfer services by us could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes, fees, requirements, or restrictions. Other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs, such as efforts by various central banks to connect their real-time payment rails. Such initiatives may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. In addition, tax authorities at the international, federal, state, and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in internet commerce in general and remittances in particular. New or revised international, federal, state, or local tax regulations may subject us or our customers to additional sales, income, and other taxes and would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of using our mobile services. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could harm our business and operating results. Failure to comply with sanctions laws, anti-terrorist financing laws, anti-money laundering laws, and similar laws associated with our activities outside of the United States, and anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to allow us to comply with anti-money laundering laws and economic sanctions laws and prevent our service from being used to facilitate business in countries or with persons or entities designated on lists promulgated by OFAC and equivalent international authorities or that are otherwise the target of sanctions. We may utilize the services of vendors, such as screening tools, in implementing such policies and procedures. In the event that we or any of our users engage in any conduct, intentionally or not, that facilitates money laundering, terrorist financing, or other illicit activity, or that violates anti-money laundering or sanctions laws, or otherwise constitutes activity that is prohibited by such laws, including through the fault of any vendor, we may be subject to: fines, penalties, lawsuits, and enforcement actions; additional compliance requirements; increased regulatory scrutiny of our business; restriction of our operations; or damage to our reputation or brand. 24 TableofContents Law enforcement and regulators continue to scrutinize compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures that we use to verify the identity of our customers or monitor our service for potential illegal activity. In addition, any policies and procedures that we implement to comply with sanctions laws may not be effective, including in preventing customers from using our services for transactions with sanctioned persons or jurisdictions subject to comprehensive sanctions, including Cuba, North Korea, Syria, Iran, and the Crimea, Donetsk Peoples Republic, and Luhansk Peoples Republic regions of Ukraine. Given the technical limitations in developing controls to prevent, among other things, the ability of customers to publish on our service false or deliberately misleading information or to develop sanctions-evasion methods, it is possible that we may inadvertently and without our knowledge provide services to individuals or entities that have been designated by OFAC or other relevant sanctions authorities or are located in a jurisdiction subject to comprehensive sanctions or an embargo by the United States or another country in which we operate or are licensed to do business, and such services may not be in compliance with applicable economic sanctions regulations. Sanctions are imposed to address acute foreign policy and national security threats and may change rapidly and unpredictably in response to world events or domestic or international political developments. Additionally, as we expand our services into additional jurisdictions, we may become subject to additional sanctions requirements imposed by those jurisdictions or face increased risk of processing transactions in violation of sanctions requirements to which we are currently subject. We may be unable to update policies, procedures, or controls to timely and effectively address changes in applicable legal requirements or in our sanctions risk environment. In addition, U.S. policy-makers have sought and may continue to seek heightened customer due diligence requirements on, or restrict, remittances from the United States to certain jurisdictions. For example, government sanctions imposed in February 2022 with respect to Russia and Ukraine are impacting our ability to offer services in the region, and additional sanctions could be imposed in the future. In addition, existing laws and regulatory requirements may change and become more stringent, such as requiring us to maintain records on a larger number of transactions or verify the identity of our customers in a prescriptive way, which could result in greater costs for compliance. Our operating companies in a number of jurisdictions, including Canada, the United Kingdom, and the EEA, are increasingly becoming or will become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, partner oversight and monitoring requirements, as well as broader supervision by a variety of governmental authorities. Additionally, the financial penalties associated with the failure to comply with anti-money laundering laws have increased recently in a number of jurisdictions. Legislation that has been enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions could have similar effects. We also face significant risks if we cannot comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws that prohibit companies and their third-party providers and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to foreign government officials, political parties, or private-sector recipients for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, directing business to any person, or securing any advantage. We have implemented an anti-corruption compliance policy, but we cannot ensure that all of our employees, customers, and third-party providers, as well as those contractors to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies or agreements and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Consequences for failing to comply with applicable rules and regulations could include fines, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, including Licenses, or other enforcement actions. We could also be required to make changes to our business practices or compliance programs as a result of regulatory scrutiny. In addition, any perceived or actual breach of compliance by us, our customers, vendors, or third-party providers (including our payment or disbursement partners) with respect to applicable laws, rules, and regulations could have a significant impact on our reputation and could cause us to lose existing customers, prevent us from obtaining new customers, cause other third-party providers (including payment or disbursement partners) to terminate or not renew their agreements with us, require us to expend significant funds to remedy problems caused by violations and to avert further violations, adversely affect our relationship with our partner banks and other commercial counterparties, and expose us to legal risk and potential liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. If our disbursement partners fail to comply with applicable laws, it could harm our business. We work with disbursement partners in various receive jurisdictions whom we believe are complying with local laws and regulations. We rely on such disbursement partners to facilitate transactions with recipients in their local jurisdictions and such disbursement partners could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. This could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Our services are regulated by state, federal, and foreign governments, regulators, and agencies. Many of our disbursement partners are banks that are heavily regulated in their home jurisdictions. Our non-bank disbursement partners are also subject to various regulations, including money transfer regulations. We require regulatory compliance as a condition to our continued relationship with our disbursement partners, perform due diligence on them, and monitor them periodically with the goal of meeting regulatory expectations. However, there are limits to the extent to which we can monitor and confirm their regulatory compliance. Any determination that our disbursement partners or the sub-disbursement partners of our aggregator disbursement partners have violated laws and regulations could damage our reputation and customer trust in our brand and services, and may ultimately lead to regulatory action against us by our regulators. It is possible that in some cases we could be liable for the failure of our disbursement partners to comply with laws or regulations, or to exercise sufficient oversight over their vendors and agents, which also could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. 25 TableofContents Failure to comply with global and evolving marketing laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. Our marketing practices rely upon a wide range of referral programs, exchange rate and fee-based promotions, e-mail, digital and social media marketing and direct marketing practices, among other tactics. These marketing practices are subject to a variety of advertising and consumer protection laws and regulatory oversight in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the EEA, and the other jurisdictions in which we do business. In the United States, some examples of applicable legislation include, among others, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003; the U.S. Federal Trade Commission guidelines with respect to misleading or deceptive advertising or marketing practices; the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, state banking laws that prohibit non-banks, including licensed money transmitters, from holding themselves out as banks or providing banking services; and the CCPA and other comprehensive state privacy and cybersecurity laws. These laws are continuously evolving and developing in light of technological change and regulatory objectives. These laws are overseen by regulators at the national, provincial, and state level and, in some cases, carry private rights of action that may expose us to class-action and private litigation risk. We are, and, from time to time, we may become subject to, various legal proceedings and regulatory investigation matters and enforcement activities in connection with these laws and regulations. We are not presently a party to any legal or regulatory proceedings that in the opinion of our management, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. We believe that our policies and practices comply with applicable marketing and consumer protection laws and regulations. However, if our belief proves incorrect, if there are changes to the guidelines, laws, regulations, or their interpretation, or if new regulations are enacted that are inconsistent with our current marketing practices or customer experience, our business could be harmed or our relationship with our partners and other commercial counterparties, could be adversely affected. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings, disciplinary actions, regulatory disputes, and governmental investigations that could cause us to incur significant expenses, divert our managements attention, and materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. We have been and may in the future be involved in various legal proceedings, claims, investigations, or similar matters from time to time. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert managements attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. If we are unsuccessful in our defense in these litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, we may be forced to pay damages or fines, enter into consent decrees, or change our business practices, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Operational Risks We are exposed to the risk of loss or insolvency if our disbursement partners fail to disburse funds according to our instructions or were to become insolvent unexpectedly, or funds are disbursed before customer funds are guaranteed to be sufficient. We are exposed to the risk of loss in the event our disbursement partners fail to disburse funds to recipients according to our instructions. Such reasons could include mistakes by our disbursement partners in processing payment instructions or failing to correctly classify and process error categories, or negligence, insolvency, or fraud by our disbursement partners. One or more of our disbursement partners could elect to temporarily withhold money from customers, which would cause delays in any transfers reaching their ultimate destination. Were such delays to occur, this would cause a loss of trust in the ability of our service to meet the timeline that we set for ourselves and provide our customers. Were customers to lose trust in our ability to deliver our services in a timely and professional manner, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be harmed. We are also subject to risk of loss if funds are disbursed before customer funds are guaranteed to be sufficient, which could also harm our business and financial results. If there is any material change of service terms or loss of coverage in our payment processors and disbursement network, our business could be harmed. Our third-party payment processors and disbursement partners are critical components of our business. We partner with payment processors in our send jurisdictions to provide clearing, processing, and settlement functions for the funding of all of our transactions. We also partner with disbursement partners in our receiving jurisdictions to disburse funds to recipients via various means, including cash pick-up or delivery, bank deposit, or mobile wallet. For payments processing, the terms of service are governed under applicable payment network rules that are determined by the processor and generally are not subject to negotiation. We may be forced to cease doing business with a payment processor if its rules and certification requirements governing electronic funds transfers change or are reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit card and debit card payments from customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to renew existing agreements or sign new payment processing and disbursement partners under terms consistent with, or better than, those currently in place, our growth, revenue, and overall business may be harmed. Our payment processors and disbursement partners could choose to terminate or not renew their agreements with us. Payment processors and disbursement partners could reduce the services provided, cease to do business with us, or cease doing business altogether. If these events occur and we are unable to secure alternative providers willing to provide services on more preferable terms, this could lead to our inability to clear our payment instruments or move funds on a global and timely basis as required to settle our obligations. This would negatively impact our revenue as well as our reputation and brand. 26 TableofContents If our disbursement partners do not provide a positive recipient experience, our business could be harmed. We partner with our disbursement partners to disburse funds to our customers recipients. If the experience delivered by our disbursement partners to a recipient is deemed unsatisfactory for any reason, including because our disbursement partners are not properly trained to disburse money or they deliver poor customer service, our disbursement partners compliance processes and approvals take longer than expected, the wait times at our disbursement partners pick-up locations are too long, or cash pick-up locations are not located in convenient and safe locations and open for business at convenient times, customers may choose to not use our services in the future and our business could be harmed. Increases in various types of fees, such as interchange fees, payment scheme fees, and disbursement fees, could increase our costs, affect our profitability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise limit our operations. Our payment processors and disbursement partners charge us fees, which may increase from time to time. Payment processors may pass through payment scheme mandated costs, such as interchange fees, and changes to these payment scheme fees, or decreases in negotiated rebates could increase our costs. Banks currently determine the fees charged for bank-originated transactions and may increase the fees with little prior notice. Our card processors have in the past and may in the future increase the fees charged for each transaction using credit cards and debit cards, which may be passed on to us. Our disbursement partners charge us disbursement fees, which they have in the past and may in the future increase. U.S. federal, state, local or foreign governments could also mandate a payment processing or remittance tax, require additional taxes or fees to be imposed upon our customers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. If our transaction processing fees increase, it may require us to change our disbursement options, modify payment methods, or take other measures that would impact our costs and profitability or cause us to lose customers or otherwise limit our operations. The loss of one or more key members of our management team, or our failure to attract, integrate, and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our employees and senior management team, including our CEO and co-founder Matthew Oppenheimer. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may be unable to find the number of technically talented employees we need to continue our growth, or we may incur significant costscosts which we expect to increase generally, to attract and keep such employees. In addition, any future loss of any of our senior management, key employees, or key technical personnel could harm our ability to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. All of our officers and other U.S. employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry could be difficult to replace. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any of our senior management or other senior employees. Furthermore, our performance and competitiveness as an employer are influenced by our ability to effectively manage our talent pool, address employee complaints, tensions, and disagreements, as well as comply with, anticipate, and adapt to changes in employment and tax laws and regulations, including those related to labor relations, health and safety standards, immigration policies, and taxation of equity-based compensation. Changes in such regulations could impose additional burdens on our operations and limit our flexibility in effectively recruiting, maintaining, and managing our workforce across different geographies and during different business and economic cycles. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business could be harmed. If we cannot maintain our company culture as we grow, our success and our business may be harmed. We believe our culture has been a key contributor to our success to date and that our Companys vision promotes a sense of greater purpose and fulfillment in our employees. Inorganic growth through mergers and acquisitions may pose significant challenges to integrating the company cultures of acquired companies. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. As we grow and develop the infrastructure of a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture. If we fail to maintain our company culture, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Interruptions or delays in the services provided by data centers or internet service providers could impair the delivery of our services and our business could be impacted. We host our service offerings using third-party cloud infrastructure services that we do not control. We depend on their ability to protect their data centers against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages and other similar incidents, criminal acts, and similar events. We also depend on their ability to meet our capacity requirements as increasing numbers of customers access our offerings. In addition, our operations depend on protecting the cloud infrastructure hosted by such providers by maintaining their respective configuration, architecture, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these data centers and which third-party internet service providers transmit. In the event that any third-party providers systems or service abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, our ability to operate may be impaired and data may be compromised. All of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if our or our partners business continuity and disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. Any prolonged service disruption affecting our offerings for any of the foregoing reasons could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. We have from time to time in the past experienced service disruptions due to such issues, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience interruptions or delays in our service in the future. 27 TableofContents Moreover, we are heavily reliant on the cloud services provided by a single provider. We may not be able to easily switch our reliance on that providers operations to another cloud or other data center provider if there are disruptions or interference with our use of or relationship with our existing provider, and, even if we do switch our operations, other cloud and data center providers are subject to the same risks. If our provider unexpectedly terminates our cloud services agreement, we would be forced to incur additional expenses to locate an alternative provider and may experience outages or disruptions to our service. Any service disruption affecting our offerings during such migration or while operating on our providers cloud infrastructure could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business. Sustained financial market illiquidity, or illiquidity at our partner financial institutions, could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. We face risks in the event of a sustained deterioration of financial market liquidity, as well as in the event of sustained deterioration in the liquidity or failure of financial institutions where we deposit money. This includes financial institutions that hold prefunding accounts for our disbursement partners. In particular: We may be unable to access funds in our accounts on a timely basis to pay transactions and receive settlement funds. Any resulting need to access other sources of liquidity or short-term borrowing could increase our costs. Any delay or inability to pay transactions could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects; and Our funds are held by us and our disbursement partners, which includes banks, non-bank financial institutions, and aggregators, both in the United States and abroad. For instance, historically a substantial portion of our send volume has been derived from remittances being sent to India, Mexico, and the Philippines. During high volume sending periods, a significant portion of our available cash may be held in an account or accounts outside of the United States. Our payment processors, the commercial banks that hold our funds, our disbursement partners, and the financial institutions that hold prefunding accounts for our disbursement partners or our disbursement collateral could fail or experience sustained deterioration in liquidity. This could lead to our inability to move funds on a timely basis as required to pay transactions and receive settlement funds; loss of prefunded balances; or a breach in our capital or other regulatory requirements if we are unable to recover our funds. If financial liquidity deteriorates, our ability to access capital may be harmed and we could become insolvent. Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, collaborations, or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. We have in the past, and we may in the future, seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our offerings, address additional customer needs, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potentially material acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are completed. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses, and we may not successfully identify desirable acquisition targets, identify key risks during the due diligence phase, or integrate them effectively following the acquisition. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, as well as unfavorable accounting treatment and exposure to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims. We also may not generate sufficient financial returns to offset the costs and expenses related to any acquisitions. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects may suffer. We may also make significant investments in new products, marketing campaigns, technologies, or services developed solely by us or in conjunction with strategic partners we identify. It is possible that our strategic investments may not become profitable and fail to return our initial investment, and this may have a harmful effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Remitly Global is a holding company with no operations of its own and is the ultimate parent of a network of local subsidiaries, each of which is subject to different local regulations. In the future, we may depend on our subsidiaries to fund our operations and expenses. Remitly Global is a holding company and relies on our operating subsidiaries for cash flow. Therefore, our ability to fund and conduct our business, service our debt, and pay dividends, if any, in the future may depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to make upstream cash distributions or payments to us, which may be impacted, for example, by their ability to generate sufficient cash flow or limitations on the ability to repatriate funds, whether as a result of currency liquidity restrictions, monetary or exchange controls, regulatory restrictions, or otherwise. For example, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and liquidity requirements as U.S.-regulated entities and/or as regulated entities in the jurisdictions where they do business. Such requirements may limit the ability of these regulated subsidiaries to dividend or distribute funds to Remitly Global. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities, and although they are directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by our ultimate parent, they have no obligation to make any funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends, or otherwise. To the extent the ability of any of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us is limited in any way, our ability to fund and conduct our business, service our debt, and pay dividends, if any, could be harmed. 28 TableofContents Expansion into new international jurisdictions and payment corridors exposes us to risks associated with handling of additional currencies and compliance with local regulations and law. As our international operations increase, or more of our expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our operating results may be more greatly affected by fluctuations in local markets or the exchange rates of the currencies in which we do business. There are significant costs and risks inherent in conducting business in international jurisdictions, including: establishing and maintaining effective controls at international locations and the associated costs; increased competition from local providers; compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including privacy and cybersecurity frameworks similar to the GDPR; adapting to doing business in other languages or cultures; compliance with local tax regimes, including potential double taxation of our international earnings, and potentially adverse tax consequences due to U.S. and foreign tax laws as they relate to our international operations; compliance with anti-bribery laws, such as the FCPA, the CFPOA, and the U.K. Bribery Act; currency exchange rate fluctuations and related effects on our operating results; economic and political instability in some countries; the uncertainty of protection for IP Rights in some countries and practical difficulties of obtaining, maintaining, protecting, defending, and enforcing IP Rights abroad; and other costs of doing business internationally. As we expand into more international jurisdictions, we are faced with greater complexities around having to comply with various sets of local regulations, policies, and laws, which could change in ways that are adverse to our business. In particular, central banks or other regulatory agencies or institutions in the countries we operate could enact policies that may negatively affect our business, and we may incur increased costs to deal with such unfavorable laws and policies. These and other factors could harm our international operations and, consequently, materially impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Further, we may incur significant operating expenses as a result of our international expansion, and such expansion may not be successful. We have limited experience with certain international regulatory environments and practices, and we may not be able to penetrate or successfully operate in those regions. We also have more limited brand recognition in certain parts of the world, leading to delayed acceptance of our services by international customers. If we cannot continue to expand internationally and manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be adversely affected. Risks associated with operations outside the United States and with foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. Since a substantial portion of our send volume is exposed to the U.S. dollar, deterioration in the value of the U.S. dollar, including as a result of macroeconomic factors, including inflation, could have a material impact on our business. In addition, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, a significant portion of which occurs in Canada and Europe. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. For example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in Euros. In an environment of a rising U.S. dollar relative to the Euro, the value of our Euro-denominated revenue, operating income, and net monetary assets would be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. Some of these adverse financial effects may be partially mitigated by our efforts to offset these financial impacts through natural hedging of our assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies. In an environment of a declining U.S. dollar relative to the Euro, some of the translation benefits on our reported financial results could be limited by the impact of foreign currency hedging activities. We are also subject to risks related to changes in the value of other foreign currencies. For instance, we have seen increased money transfer volume if the U.S. dollar strengthens against certain currencies, especially the Indian rupee, the Mexican peso, or the Philippine peso. Conversely, we have seen decreased money transfer volume if the U.S. dollar weakens against those currencies. We are also exposed to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the date on which a customer initiates a cross-border remittance payment and the date that the remittance recipient receives the funds through our disbursement partners because the foreign exchange rate quoted to the customer is not adjusted for changes between the initiation date and the settlement date. In addition, our international subsidiary financial statements are denominated in, and operated in, currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our financial results are also subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-local currencies. As a result, it could be more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and operating results. 29 TableofContents A substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside the United States. We utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. Changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. To date, we have not engaged in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange fluctuations; however, to limit our risk exposure associated with exchange rate fluctuations we may choose to engage in currency hedging activities in the future. Even if we use derivative instruments to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the use of such hedging activities may not offset the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the time the hedges are in place, and may introduce additional risks and costs if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. Money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. Additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage, or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. These risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects. In addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our third-party providers that generally are not present in our operations in the United States and other more developed countries. Historically, a substantial amount of our revenue has been derived from remittances to Mexico, India, and the Philippines, and our business could be significantly affected by any adverse changes in these regions. Historically, our revenue has been substantially derived from remittances to Mexico, India, and the Philippines. Remittances sent to these three countries represented approximately 49%, 55%, and 65% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Because remittances to these countries have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue, our business is exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic conditions, and changes in political conditions in each of these countries. Moreover, due to the concentration of our revenue related to these geographies, our business may be less diversified and, accordingly, subject to greater regional risks as compared to some of our competitors. Financial Risks If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. As a public company, we are required, among other things, to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure