Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements in this report, including, without limitation, matters discussed under Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, related notes, and other detailed information included in Signature Group Holdings, Inc.s (Signature, formerly Fremont General Corporation (Fremont), or Company, we, us or our) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 (the Annual Report). We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements. Certain of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, estimates, assumes, may, should, will, or other similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from future results, performance or achievements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, intentions and expectations. These statements are not guarantees or indicative of future performance. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those factors, risks and uncertainties described in the Annual Report under the caption Risk Factors and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All forward looking statements set forth herein are qualified by these cautionary statements and are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update or revise the information contained herein, including without limitation any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, or otherwise, unless otherwise required by law. OVERVIEW Signature is a diversified business and financial services enterprise that intends to generate strong, risk-adjusted return on equity while protecting shareholder capital. We presently operate in two primary business lines: (i) Special Situation Lending and (ii) Strategic Acquisitions. Additionally, we maintain and are managing certain legacy assets and liabilities related to Fremonts former businesses, which include a portfolio of subprime residential real estate mortgages, residential real estate, commercial real estate investments, litigation claims under fidelity insurance bonds held by Fremont (Legacy Assets) and are reported as discontinued operations. After a nearly two year reorganization process, Fremont emerged from bankruptcy proceedings and filed Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation with the Office of the Secretary of the State for the State of Nevada on June 11, 2010 (the Effective Date), which, among other things, changed Fremonts name to Signature Group Holdings, Inc. Previously, on May 25, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court had entered an order, as amended (the Confirmation Order), confirming Signature Group Holdings, LLCs Fourth Amended Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Fremont General Corporation, Joined by James McIntyre as Co-Plan Proponent, dated May 11, 2010, as amended (the Plan). During the bankruptcy period, Fremonts operations focused on maximizing the value of its assets, which included the liquidation and sale of certain assets, and minimizing its costs and liabilities through the negotiation and resolution of litigation, loan repurchase claims and other claims. In particular, Fremont managed its remaining residential and commercial loan portfolios, commercial real estate investments and other assets. The Companys results of operations include reorganization items, which are direct costs incurred by Fremont operating as a debtor-in-possession during bankruptcy proceedings. These items include professional fees, trustee fees and other expenses directly related to the bankruptcy filing, gains or losses resulting from activities of the reorganization process offset by interest earned on cash accumulated while in bankruptcy. Operating Segments . The presentation set forth below in this Managements Discussion and Analysis and in the Companys unaudited consolidated financial statements present the Companys financial condition and results of operations by operating segment. Our primary operating segments include Special Situation Lending and Strategic Acquisitions, which are part of continuing operations. Our other operating segment is Discontinued Operations, which includes the Legacy Assets. Special Situation Lending In our Special Situation Lending business line, we focus on providing senior secured and junior secured debt financing to middle market companies in the form of newly originated commercial and industrial loans, leases, and real estate mortgages in healthy and distressed situations. We also look to acquire similarly structured debt instruments as well as, on occasion, corporate bonds, trade claims, and other structured debt instruments, which may be performing, sub-performing or non-performing. Generally, debt obligations acquired will be made at a discount to par value, or unpaid principal balance. 30 Table of Contents Strategic Acquisitions In our Strategic Acquisitions business line, we provide capital to middle market companies whereby we obtain a significant equity interest in a company either through the direct purchase of a controlling interest, and in some cases all or substantially all of its equity, or through a structured debt transaction that results in our obtaining a significant equity interest from a debt-for-equity conversion, bankruptcy or foreclosure event, or other transactions. We may also acquire specialized assets such as product or brand licenses, royalty streams, subscriber bases or divisions of larger companies. Our acquisitions may involve companies operating in healthy or distressed situations. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations presents the financial condition and results of operations for the assets, liabilities, businesses and operations that were sold or discontinued by Fremont prior to the Effective Date. The assets and liabilities primarily include a portfolio of subprime residential real estate mortgages, residential real estate, commercial real estate investments and liabilities associated with the former lending and retail banking businesses. These assets and liabilities are being managed to maximize cash recoveries and value for our shareholders and are expected to be redeployed into our long term business strategy over time. See Note 1 3 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for more information about the Companys Discontinued Operations. Corporate and Other Corporate and other costs primarily represent corporate administrative expenses related to those administrative, financial and human resource activities that are not allocated to operations and are excluded from segment results of operations. These costs are not allocated to the segments, as management excludes such costs when assessing the performance of the segments. Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. As of June 30, 2011, the Company's internal control over financial reporting was not effective and it was determined that the material weakness identified as of December 31, 2010 had not been remediated. The Company is currently working to remediate the material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. See Item 4,