Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we deem immaterial may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors Some of the material risks that we face include: We operate in a highly competitive and evolving market and may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors which employ a variety of existing business models and technologies or new innovations; If we are not able to innovate, improve existing products, and develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our growth, business, operating results, financial condition, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected; We partner with third parties to support fulfillment of our service, including risk management, payment processing, customer support, cloud hosting, and disbursement, which exposes us to risks outside our direct control; Cyberattacks, cybersecurity breaches, service outages, or other similar incidents could result in serious harm to our business, reputation, and financial condition, including by triggering regulatory action or a breach of our agreements with significant partners that we rely on to deliver our services; We are subject to privacy and cybersecurity laws across multiple jurisdictions which are highly complex, overlapping, frequently changing, and which create compliance challenges that may expose us to substantial costs, liabilities, or loss of customer trust. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws could harm our business; Use of our platform for illegal or fraudulent activities could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results; Failure to comply with sanctions laws, anti-terrorist financing laws, anti-money laundering laws, and similar laws associated with our activities outside of the United States, and anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences; We are exposed to the risk of loss or insolvency if our disbursement partners fail to disburse funds according to our instructions or were to become insolvent unexpectedly or funds are disbursed before customer funds are guaranteed to be sufficient; If there is any material change of service terms or loss of coverage in our payment processors and disbursement network, our business could be harmed; If our disbursement partners do not provide a positive recipient experience, our business would be harmed; Risks associated with operations outside the United States and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows; If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected; If one or more of our counterparties, including financial institutions, aggregators, and local cash pick-up institutions where we have cash on deposit, or our lenders and potential hedging counterparties, default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses; and Our customers and business operations are exposed to macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical forces in developing regions and regions that account for a significant amount of our send volume, which exposes us to risk of loss. 13 TableofContents Business and Industry Risks We operate in a highly competitive and evolving market and may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors which employ a variety of existing business models and technologies or new innovations. The market for remittances is global, highly competitive, and fragmented and includes a mix of traditional and digital players. This includes monoline remittance companies as well as more platform-based competitors that offer multiple financial services, including remittances. These competitors include traditional banks, digital-first cross-border payment providers, online-only banks, and cryptocurrency providers. Some of the competitors are significantly larger than we are, have longer operating histories, have more scale and name recognition, and more resources to deploy. We also compete against smaller, country-specific companies, banks, and informal person-to-person money transfer service providers that may have more ability to effectively tailor products and services, marketing, and regulatory compliance to local preferences and requirements. Some of these competitors may introduce new products or services that render us unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers at prices that are consistent with our pricing model and operating budget. In addition, these competitors use a variety of funding, money measurement and pricing methodologies which may be more attractive to customers in some geographies or demographics. Our pricing strategy for our cross-border payments may also prove to be unappealing to our customers for other reasons, too. If this were to occur, it is possible that we would have to change our pricing strategies or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue and operating results. In addition, the broader financial services sector is experiencing rapid evolution in technologies and there has recently been significant advancement in the development of neobanking, as well as other real time payment technologies. Any failure to timely anticipate changes in customer behavior related to new payment technologies, or to successfully integrate such technologies into our services, could harm our ability to compete and result in a loss of customers and corresponding loss of revenue. If we are not able to innovate, improve existing products, and develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our growth, business, operating results, financial condition, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our products and services rely on a technology-driven platform that requires innovation to remain competitive. Our process for innovation is complex and relies upon both internally developed and third-party technologies and services, including machine learning, cloud-based, and other emerging technologies. We may not be able to make product or technological improvements as quickly as our competitors and/or as demanded by our customers, or to market them effectively, which could harm our ability to attract or retain customers. This includes the incorporation of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies. In addition, we continue to develop new products and services which require ongoing investment. It is possible that these new products may not return our investment or be profitable, or may experience disruptions in development or availability in the market as a result of a variety of factors outside our control, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. See the section titled Risk FactorsGeneral Risks. Additionally, the majority of our customers access our products through our mobile website and mobile app, and we must ensure that our offerings are optimized for mobile devices and that our mobile apps are interoperable with popular third-party mobile operating systems such as Google Android and Apple iOS. If we are unable to successfully and in a timely fashion innovate and improve our existing products that achieve market acceptance, and continue to deliver a superior customer experience, our growth, business, operating results, financial condition, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We have grown rapidly in recent years and have limited operating experience at our current scale of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We also may not be able to sustain our growth rate in the future. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods in our headcount, licensing portfolio, geographic footprint, and transaction volume, all of which place substantial demands on our management and operational resources. We will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures to manage this growth. Further, as we continue to grow, our business becomes increasingly complex and requires more resources. We have expended and anticipate continuing to expend, significant resources on expanding our infrastructure, streamlining our business and management processes, and other operational areas. Continued growth could strain our existing resources and we could experience operating difficulties in managing our business across numerous jurisdictions. Failure to effectively scale could harm our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on our growth strategy. For example, our controls, policies, and procedures, including with respect to accounting, risk management, privacy, cybersecurity, client on-boarding, transaction monitoring, and reliance on manual controls, among other compliance matters, remain under development and may not be consistently applied or fully effective to identify, monitor, and manage all risks of our business as we continue to scale rapidly. If we do not inform, train, and manage our employees properly, we may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, which could lead to adverse regulatory action. Moreover, the process by or speed with which our internal