Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Comprehensive Form 10-K for information about the Companys liquidity and capital resources. 5. Regulation and Supervision FIL was a California industrial bank and, as such, was subject to the supervision and regulation by the DFI and the FDIC. Fremont was not directly regulated or supervised by the DFI, the FDIC, or any other bank regulatory authority, except with respect to guidelines concerning its relationship with its industrial bank subsidiary. FIL was examined on a regular basis by both bank regulatory authorities. As more fully described in B. Pre-Bankruptcy Operations and C. Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings and Events Occurring During Such Proceedings in Item 1 of this Comprehensive Form 10-K above, in 2007, Fremont, FIL and FGCC consented to the Order issued by the FDIC and the DFI Order issued by the DFI without admitting to the allegations contained in the Orders. Following the closing of the CapitalSource Transaction, FIL sought and obtained approval from the FDIC and the DFI to relinquish its federal deposit insurance coverage from the FDIC and surrendered its charter to the DFI. In conjunction with these activities, FILs name was changed to Fremont Reorganizing Corporation. As a result of Fremont obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval, the closing the CapitalSource Transaction and the subsequent relinquishment of its FDIC deposit insurance coverage and California industrial bank charter, FRC ceased to be regulated by either the FDIC or the DFI and as such was no longer subject to the Orders. 6. Competition During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, Fremont competed in residential and commercial lending markets that were highly competitive and were characterized by factors that varied based upon product and geographic region. The markets in which it competed were typically characterized by a large number of competitors who competed based primarily upon price, terms and loan structure. Fremont primarily competed with banks, mortgage lenders and finance companies, many of which were larger and had greater financial resources. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, as a result of the withdrawal by Fremont from the residential real estate loan origination business and the substantial reduction in its commercial lending business, Fremont did not compete with mortgage companies or other finance companies engaged in the commercial and residential real estate loan origination businesses as it was focused on maximizing the value of its existing asset base. 32 Table of Contents As it relates to Signatures new operating strategy, its primary competitors in providing debt financing and equity capital for middle-market companies include commercial and investment banks, public and private funds, commercial finance companies, private equity funds, and high net worth individuals. Additionally, because competition for transactions such as those Signature plans to target generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas they have not traditionally invested in, including middle-market companies. Some of Signatures existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to Signature. In addition, some of Signatures competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. AVAILABLE INFORMATION: WEBSITE ACCESS TO PERIODIC REPORTS The following information can be found on Signatures website at www.signaturegroupholdings.com : the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act that we have filed with the Commission, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports have been filed with the Commission. Copies of Signatures Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and other reports filed with the Commission can also be obtained from the Commissions website at www.sec.gov ; information relating to corporate governance at Signature, including our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and Amended and Restated Code of Conduct (for all employees including executive officers and directors). We intend to disclose on our internet website any amendments to or waivers from these governance documents in lieu of disclosure on Form 8-K in accordance with Item 5.05(c) of Form 8-K; information about Board committees, including the charters of standing committees of the Board; and information relating to transactions in Signatures securities by its directors and executive officers. Additionally, we will provide copies of any of this information free of charge upon written request to, Signature Group Holdings, Inc., Investor Relations, 15303 Ventura Blvd, Ste. 1600, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403, or by email request to invrel@signaturegroupholdings.com . Item 1A. Risk Factors This Comprehensive Form 10-K Report may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements and current results reported herein are not guarantees of future performance or results and there can be no assurance that actual developments and economic performance will be as anticipated by us. Actual developments and/or results may differ significantly and adversely from expected results as a result of significant risks, uncertainties and factors. These listed risk factors are not intended to be exhaustive and the order in which the risk appear is not intended as an indication of their relative weight or importance. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Comprehensive Form 10-K or elsewhere. A. BUSINESS RISKS Business risks are risks associated with general business conditions, the economy, and the operations of Signature. Business risks are not risks associated with specific investments we may make nor are they risks associated with an offering of, or investment in, our common stock. The business risks associated with the business conducted by Fremont and FIL are not presented herein because Signature is not engaged in those businesses. Signatures financial condition and results of operations will depend on its ability to manage and deploy capital effectively . Our ability to achieve our business and investment objectives will depend on our ability to effectively manage and deploy our capital, which will depend, in turn, on our investment managers ability to identify, evaluate, invest in, and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our business and investment objectives. 33 Table of Contents Accomplishing our business and investment objectives on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our investment managers handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services, its access to investments offering acceptable terms, and its ability to consummate those investments. In addition to monitoring the performance of our investments, members of our investment managers management team and its investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets, and economic conditions. In addition, changes in the business practices of commercial and investment banks, public and private funds, commercial finance companies, private equity funds, hedge funds, high net worth individuals and governmental agencies in terms of providing debt and equity financing in the middle market or selling loan portfolios and other financial assets may negatively impact our ability to source attractive investment opportunities and deploy capital. If we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described in this Comprehensive Form 10-K, it could negatively impact our financial condition. Even if we are able to grow and build our investment operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Signatures business model depends to a significant extent upon its investment managers referral relationships, and its ability to maintain or develop these relationships in the future. We expect that the management team and members of Signatures investment manager, SCA, will maintain their relationships with financial institutions, private equity and other non-bank investors, investment bankers, commercial bankers, attorneys, accountants and consultants, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If the management team and members of our investment manager fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to achieve our business and investment objectives. In addition, individuals or firms with whom the management team and members of our investment manager have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. Signature has a new management team, Board of Directors and business strategy with limited operating history. Signature emerged from bankruptcy in June 2010 with a new management team and Board of Directors, as well as a new business model. As a result, Signature is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our business objectives. Additionally, prior to the Effective Date, certain members of Signatures management team had not worked together. While we have similar professional backgrounds and investment philosophies, there are no guarantees that we will have consensus on every business decision. Finally, none of Signatures Board of Directors members have worked together in the past, which we believe to be valuable on one hand, as it provides a broader perspective for the business initiatives we may be required to evaluate, but this limited history also represents a potential risk in that the Board may not come to consensus on every business decision or may require additional time to deliberate among potential options for any particular matter. Signature depends on key personnel of SCA in seeking to achieve its business and investment objectives. Signature depends on the members of the senior management team of our investment adviser, particularly Craig F. Noell, Kenneth Grossman, Kyle Ross, Thomas Donatelli and David Collett for the management of its business and, in particular, the final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of its investments. These employees have critical industry experience and relationships that Signature will be relying on to implement its business plan. If we lose the services of these individuals, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Signatures Interim Management Agreement with SCA is not a long term arrangement and the economic terms are likely to change in the future. Pursuant to the Interim Management Agreement, Signature contracted with SCA to provide general business management for its operations through December 31, 2010 with annual renewals if a revised Investment Management Agreement had not yet been entered into between the parties. The Interim Management Agreement has certain beneficial terms for Signature; in particular, a pass-through-of-expenses management fee structure and a salary limitation on the SCA Executives. We expect a more permanent Investment Management Agreement will have a substantially different management fee structure, which may result in increased cost to Signature. 34 Table of Contents Signature is subject to considerable pending legal proceedings which relate to Fremont and/or FILs business. We are subject to a number of lawsuits seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief which relate to Fremont and/or FILs business. For a summary of the material litigation matters See Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this Comprehensive Form 10-K. Additional litigation may be filed against us or disputes may arise in the future concerning matters involving the prior business of Fremont and/or FILs business or the business which Signature is now beginning to engage. We have been and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in all legal proceedings we are involved in, including the lawsuits described in Item 3, however, the outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain and could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Signature has received repurchase claims relating to certain residential mortgage loan originations sold by FIL and may receive additional claims in the future that, unless withdrawn or settled within the limits of a reserve we have established, could harm our financial condition and results of operations. When FIL sold residential mortgage loans it originated in whole loan sales or securitization vehicles to other financial institutions, it was required to make customary representations and warranties about such mortgage loans. The sale agreements required FIL to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty given to the purchaser or if there existed a misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process. Fremont or Signature as its successor has received over one billion dollars in repurchase claim demands to date, which have been systematically responded to and either repurchased, settled, objected to and withdrawn, or which remain outstanding. The amount of repurchase claims outstanding was $257.5 million and $100.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Fremont established and Signature continues to maintain a loan repurchase reserve for the estimated losses associated with such loan repurchase demand claims, both known and unknown. While management believes that its $37.2 million and $8.9 million loan repurchase reserve liability was sufficient as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively, no assurance can be made that changing facts and circumstances could not cause us to increase such repurchase reserve in future periods or for the Company to experience losses in excess of its repurchase reserve liability. Any material increase in repurchase claim activity, our repurchase reserve or change in our ability to object to, defend, or settle such claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. Adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets may affect the value of Signatures residential mortgage loans held for sale or its ability to sell such assets for acceptable prices. As of December 31, 2009, Fremont held $140.6 million of unpaid principal balance (UPB) of residential mortgage loans which were classified as held for sale and carried at a value of $53.4 million, or 38% of UPB. The value of residential mortgage loans held for sale depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, interest rates, the value of the underlying collateral and legislative and regulatory actions. In addition, historically, Fremont relied on other financial institutions to purchase mortgage loans in the whole loan market. Although Signature is not actively marketing these loans for sale at the time of the filing of this Comprehensive Form 10-K, adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets, such as those experienced since mid 2007, may affect Signatures ability to sell the remaining residential mortgage loans held for sale for acceptable prices, if it elects to do so in the future. These adverse changes in the residential mortgage markets may have a material adverse effect upon the value of our residential mortgage loans, our financial condition and results of operations. Signature did not pay approximately $17.2 million in claims filed with the Bankruptcy Court on the Effective Date, which it must resolve before a final decree will be issued. On the Effective Date, Signature did not pay approximately $17.2 million in claims as the claims and/or amounts were in dispute. Subsequent to the Effective Date, Signature resolved $2.9 million in claims related to voluntary withdrawal and paid approximately $3.0 million to certain other claimholders during the third quarter of 2010. As for the remaining claims which Signature does not believe it is liable for, Signature is actively seeking their voluntary withdrawal, plans to object to them in the Bankruptcy Court, or plans to continue to litigate them in the appropriate venues. If Signature is unsuccessful in such objections, such litigation, or is unable to negotiate substantially reduced settlements with the claimholders of the remaining claims, and Signature is obligated to pay these amounts, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. See D. Recent Developments1. Events Associated with Emergence from Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings for more information on the Unpaid Claims. 35 Table of Contents The Companys $24.4 million tax refund related to its 2008 carryback NOL is subject to review of the Joint Committee. Following completion of the IRS examination of Fremonts consolidated tax returns, the Company received a tax refund in the amount of $24.4 million, net of other potential tax liabilities of $0.4 million, related to the carryback 2008 NOL applicable to prior taxable year periods 2003, 2004 and 2005. In February 2011, the IRS notified the Company that the tax refund was subject to review by the Joint Committee, and a request was made for certain information from the Company in connection with its review of the tax refund. Although the Company does not have any reason to believe that the Joint Committee will not approve the full amount of the tax refund, there is no assurance that such approval will given by the Joint Committee. Signatures inability to control its expenses may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Since emerging from bankruptcy, Signatures sources of revenue have been limited. We continue to have significant operating and non-interest expenses, including compensation and related expense, legal, professional and other outside services, occupancy expense, interest expense, and information technology expense. Although we have significantly reduced our expenses, our inability to further reduce our expenses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures, or Signatures entry into new business areas, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in its business. Signature expects to grow its business through internal expansion of commercial lending operations as well through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. When we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we expect to face numerous risks and uncertainties in combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including, potentially, the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. Our participation in any other ventures that we may enter into may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. Conflicts or disagreements between us and the other members of a venture may negatively impact our businesses. In addition, future acquisitions or joint ventures may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which may dilute our stockholders ownership of our firm. Signatures expansion into new areas may require significant resources and/or may result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. In addition, expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from its other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of its businesses and as a result negatively impact our financial condition and/or operating results. Signatures ability to utilize its NOLs or recognize tax benefits on future domestic U.S. Tax losses may be limited. Signatures ability to fully utilize its existing U.S. Federal NOL could be limited or eliminated should Signature (i) undergo an ownership change as described under Section 382 of the Tax Code or (ii) be found by the IRS not to be able to avail itself of Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code. Although no assurances can be given that the IRS agrees with our position, as of the Effective Date, we believe the Company met the criteria under Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code to be able to utilize a substantial amount of NOLs to offset future income generated by the Company, if any. Such usage, however, is predicated upon the Company not experiencing a future ownership change. An ownership change is generally defined as greater than 50% change in equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership, which would result in a limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs. Furthermore, since we are relying on Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code, if we were to experience an ownership change during a two year period beginning on the Effective Date, we would lose our entire ability to utilize the NOLs. In addition, any changes to tax rules or the interpretation of tax rules could negatively impact our ability to recognize benefits from our NOLs. As of the Effective Date, we have amended our Amended and Restated Bylaws to provide for restrictions on certain transfers of Signature common stock in order to preserve our NOLs. Unless approved by the Board, any attempted transfer of Signature common stock is prohibited and void to the extent that, as a result of such transfer (or any series of transfers) (i) any person or group of persons shall become a five-percent holder of Signature (as defined in the Treasury Regulations or (ii) the ownership interests of any five-percent shareholder shall be increased or decreased. Persons wishing to become a 5% shareholder (or existing 5% shareholders wishing to increase or decrease their percentage share ownership) may request a waiver of the restriction from Signature, and the Board of Directors may grant a waiver in its discretion. 36 Table of Contents Signatures use of its NOLs in the future may be challenged by the IRS under anti-abuse rules associated with tax avoidance. Signature expects that the IRS may investigate any attempted use of the NOLs to offset future taxable income. While Signature believes it is eligible to utilize the full amount of the NOLs under Section 382(l)(5), the IRS can at anytime challenge the use of NOLs in the future under an argument that a transaction or transactions were concluded with the substantial intent of sheltering future tax liabilities. In any situation where the IRS is successful in such a challenge, Signatures ability to utilize its NOLs may be limited, which may have a material adverse impact on Signatures financial performance. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in our failure to accurately and timely report our financial results. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a companys annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our management has concluded that as of December 31, 2009, we did not maintain an effective overall control environment, which is the foundation for effective internal control over financial reporting. As a result of the sale of substantially all of Fremonts business operations from 2007 to 2008 and the significant reduction in certain other business operations as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, Fremont experienced considerable turnover of staffing within its accounting operations during the periods covered by this Comprehensive Form 10-K. Additionally, during the period in which Fremont was in bankruptcy proceedings with limited resources and operations, we did not maintain a sufficient number of financial and accounting staff personnel with the appropriate level of accounting knowledge and experience in order to timely provide accurate and reliable financial statements that were prepared and reviewed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See