Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements in this report, including, without limitation, matters discussed under Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, related notes, and other detailed information included in Signature Group Holdings, Inc.s (Signature, formerly Fremont General Corporation (Fremont), or Company, we, us or our) Comprehensive Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (the Comprehensive Form 10-K). We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements. Certain of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, estimates, assumes, may, should, will, or other similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from future results, performance or achievements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, intentions and expectations. These statements are not guarantees or indicative of future performance. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those factors, risks and uncertainties described in the Comprehensive Form 10-K under the caption Risk Factors and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All forward looking statements set forth herein are qualified by these cautionary statements and are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update or revise the information contained herein, including without limitation any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, or otherwise, unless otherwise required by law. OVERVIEW Signature, formerly known as Fremont General Corporation, is an externally managed financial services company that seeks to become a diversified business enterprise that is intended to generate strong, risk-adjusted return on equity while protecting shareholder capital. We presently operate in two primary business lines: (i) Special Situation Lending and (ii) Strategic Acquisitions. Additionally, we maintain and are managing certain legacy assets related to Fremonts former businesses, which include a portfolio of subprime residential real estate mortgages, residential real estate, commercial real estate investments and litigation claims under fidelity insurance bonds Fremont held (Legacy Assets). These Legacy Assets are being managed to maximize cash recoveries and value for our shareholders and will be redeployed into our long term business strategy over time. After a nearly two year reorganization process, Fremont emerged from bankruptcy proceedings and filed Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation with the Office of the Secretary of the State for the State of Nevada on June 11, 2010 (the Effective Date), which, among other things, changed Fremonts name to that of Signature Group Holdings, Inc. Previously, on May 25, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court had entered an order, as amended (the Confirmation Order), confirming Signature Group Holdings, LLCs Fourth Amended Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Fremont General Corporation, Joined by James McIntyre as Co-Plan Proponent, dated May 11, 2010, as amended (the Plan). During the bankruptcy period, Fremonts operations focused on maximizing the value of its assets, which, included the liquidation and sale of certain assets, minimizing its costs and liabilities through the negotiation and resolution of litigation, loan repurchase claims and other claims. In particular, Fremont managed its remaining residential and commercial loan portfolios, commercial real estate investments and other assets . During the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the three months ended September 30, 2009, the Companys results of operations include reorganization items which are direct costs incurred by Fremont operating as a debtor-in-possession during bankruptcy proceedings. These items include professional fees, trustee fees and other expenses incurred directly related to the bankruptcy filing, gains or losses resulting from activities of the reorganization process and interest earned on cash accumulated while in bankruptcy. Presentation of Continuing Operations and Discontinued Operations . The presentation set forth below in this Managements Discussion and Analysis and in the Companys Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements present the Companys financial condition and results of operations in two separate categories, which are Continuing Operations and Discontinued Operations. The continuing operations present the financial condition and results of operations for the assets, liabilities, businesses and operations that are consistent with Signatures current business strategy. The discontinued operations present the financial condition and results of operations for the assets, liabilities, businesses and operations that were sold or discontinued by Fremont and FIL prior to the Effective Date. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item1 of this Form 10-Q for more information about the Companys Discontinued Operations. - 32 - Table of Contents Presentation of Financial Information Due to Fremonts Bankruptcy Proceedings . For the fiscal year 2009 and through June 11, 2010, the Companys financial results reflect the impact of filing a voluntary petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code in June 2008. All liabilities incurred prior to the Petition Date are considered liabilities subject to compromise, unless they are fully secured by collateral. The liabilities that are subject to compromise include the 7.875% Senior Notes due 2009 (the Senior Notes), the 9% Junior Subordinated Debentures (the Junior Subordinated Debentures), accrued interest payable, income taxes payable and other accounts payable and accrued expenses. These liabilities represent estimates of known or potential pre-petition claims that were resolved or expected to be resolved in connection with the Chapter 11 case. Liabilities of deferred compensation plans for the Fremont General Corporation 2003 Excess Benefit Plan (Excess Benefit Plan), the Fremont General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended (SERP) and the Fremont General Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan II, as amended (SERP II, and together with SERP and Excess Benefit Plan, collectively, the SERP Plans) is not considered a liability subject to compromise as this liability was fully secured by its deferred compensation plan assets. Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. As of September 30, 2010, the Company's internal control over financial reporting was not effective and it was determined that material weakness identified as of December 31, 2009 had not been remediated. The Company is currently working to remediate the material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. See Item 4,