Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes, appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. You should read the sections titled Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q represent our views as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as may be required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or the reasons that results could differ from these forward-looking statements. You should, therefore, not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Form 10-Q. Overview Remitly is a trusted provider of digital financial services that transcend borders. With a global footprint spanning more than 170 countries, Remitlys digitally native, cross-border payments app delights customers with a fast, reliable, and transparent money movement experience. Building on its strong foundation, Remitly is expanding its suite of products to further its vision and transform lives around the world. Our brand promise is to bring peace of mind into everything we do. We focus on bringing trust, reliability, and a fair and transparent price to cross-border remittances and complementary financial services. To deliver on our brand promise, we have a differentiated approach that aligns with the specific needs and interests of our customers who are sending money across borders and solves the problems they often face. There are four core elements to our differentiated approach: Mobile First. Our mobile app for cross-border remittances provides an easy-to-use, end-to-end process with a simple and reliable user experience that delivers peace of mind. In just a few minutes, customers are able to set up and send money for the first time with Remitly, and repeat transactions are easier with just a few taps. Our customers and their recipients can also track the status of their transactions as they are processed, and we provide a reliability promise to customers which is underpinned by our sophisticated risk models, high quality network, and empathetic customer service. This mobile-first experience enables us to engage beyond the initial transaction, generating strong repeat usage and high customer loyalty. Our services are highly non-discretionary for our customers which results in high revenue visibility throughout economic cycles. As of September 30, 2024, our Remitly app had a 4.9 iOS App Store rating with approximately 2.9 million reviewers and a 4.8 Android Google Play rating with over 900,000 reviewers. App rating is based on all countries or regions and the rating may vary based on user location and device type. Global Scale and High Quality Money Movement Platform. Our global network of funding and disbursement partnerships enables us to complete money transfers efficiently in over 5,100 corridors without the need to deploy local operations in each country. We are able to do this while complying with global and local licensing and regulatory requirements. A corridor represents the pairing of a send country, from which a customer can send a remittance, with a specific receive country to which such remittance can be sent. As a result of the quality of our network and the foundational investments we have made, in general every new send country we add results in a significant number of new corridors, as we are able to quickly connect send countries with receive countries, allowing us to continue to scale rapidly. Our scale and direct integration strategy allows us to negotiate favorable terms with both funding and disbursement partners while providing a great end-to-end customer experience including rapid and reliable transfers. We provide broad and high quality disbursement options to our customers allowing them to choose the method that is most convenient for their family and friends to receive funds. We have partner relationships with global banks, aggregators, and leading payment providers to give our customers an array of payment (or pay-in) options, including with a bank account, card-based payments, and alternative payment methods. Our disbursement network enables us to send (or pay-out) funds to over 5.0 billion bank accounts and mobile wallets and approximately 470,000 cash pick-up options. We focus on creating financial inclusion by providing payout optionality and access for recipients who do not always have convenient access to traditional banking. We believe our focus on financial inclusion creates peace of mind for our customers and their families while attracting and retaining loyal customers. Highly Attractive Unit Economics. Our data driven approach to optimizing customer lifetime value combined with a localized and scalable marketing platform allows us to acquire new customers at highly attractive unit economics. As we continue to improve customer lifetime value through product enhancements and changes to variable operating costs, we can optimize marketing spend to drive both growth and efficiency with a focus on maintaining strong unit economics. We believe our expertise in localizing our marketing, products, and customer support at scale is a key differentiator and enables us to provide customers with a personalized experience that drives peace of mind while also delivering high returns on marketing and product investments. 22 Table of Contents Superior Technology Platform. We believe that our differentiated approach to building our technology infrastructure enables a great customer experience and allows us to scale to meet customer demands in a more flexible way. We have been able to scale to more customers, more regions, and more use cases while continuing to get better at our reliability, speed, and performance due to our investments and unique approach to our technology platform. This enables not only our ability to scale, but also accelerates innovation on behalf of our customers - whether that is doing simple things well or about enabling new use cases like complementary new products over time. Because our customers initiate transfers digitally, we capture and leverage a body of transaction-related data that provides insight into customer behavior and customer experience. This data and the analytics we perform inform our marketing investments and product development prioritization. In addition, we leverage our data platform and proprietary models to improve our compliance systems and manage pricing, treasury, fraud risk, and customer support. Finally, our proactive investments in artificial intelligence and machine learning have continued to drive scaled improvement in the areas of fraud and risk, pricing, customer support, and marketing. Our Revenue Model For our remittance business, which represents substantially all of our revenue today, we generate revenue from transaction fees charged to customers and foreign exchange spreads applied to the amount the customer is sending. Transaction fees vary based on the corridor, the currency in which funds are delivered to the recipient, the funding method a customer chooses (e.g., ACH, credit card, debit card, etc.), the disbursement method a customer chooses (e.g., bank deposit, mobile wallet, cash pick-up, etc.), and the amount the customer is sending. Foreign exchange spreads represent the difference between the foreign exchange rate offered to customers and the foreign exchange rate on our currency purchases. They are an output of proprietary and dynamic models that are designed to provide fair and competitive rates to our customers, while generating a spread based on our ability to buy foreign currency at generally advantageous rates. Revenue from transaction fees and foreign exchange spreads is reduced by customer promotions. For example, we may, from time to time, waive transaction fees for first-time customers, or provide customers with better foreign exchange rates on their first transaction. These incentives are accounted for as reductions to revenue, up to the point where net historical cumulative revenue, at the customer level, is reduced to zero. We consider these incentives to be an investment in our long-term relationship with customers. Key Business Metrics We regularly review the following key business metrics to evaluate our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. We believe that these key business metrics provide meaningful supplemental information for management and investors in assessing our historical and future operating performance. The calculation of these key business metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, analysts, or investors. The key business metrics that we use to measure the performance of our business are defined as follows: Active customers is defined as the number of distinct customers that have successfully completed at least one transaction using Remitly during a given period. We identify customers through unique account numbers. Send volume is defined as the sum of the amount that customers send, measured in U.S. dollars, related to transactions completed during a given period. This amount is net of cancellations, does not include transaction fees from customers, and does not include any credits, offers, or bonuses applied to the transaction by us. Active Customers Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Active customers 7,310 5,409 We believe that the number of our active customers is an important indicator of customer engagement, customer retention, and the overall growth of our business. Active customers increased to approximately 7.3 million, or 35% growth, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase in the number of new customers, driven by investments in our mobile platform and efficient marketing spend, our focus on customer experience and how we serve our customers, expansion of our global disbursement network, and the continued diversification across both send and receive countries. While we continue to see strong results in our largest existing receive countries (India, Mexico, and the Philippines), our successful diversification of our corridor portfolio across both send and receive countries has contributed to new customer growth. 23 Table of Contents Send Volume Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Send volume $ 14,490 $ 10,227 $ 39,195 $ 28,351 We measure send volume to assess the scale of remittances sent using our platform. Our customers mostly send from the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and other countries in Europe. Our customers and their recipients are located in over 170 countries and territories across the globe; the largest receive countries by send volume include India, Mexico, and the Philippines. Send volume increased 42% to $14.5 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $10.2 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2023, driven by the increase in active customers. Send volume increased 38%, to $39.2 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $28.4 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, driven by the increase in active customers. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Customer Retention and High Customer Engagement Our send volume is primarily driven by existing customers who regularly use our remittance product to send money to family and friends. We believe our mobile-first products and superior customer experience encourage high retention and repeat usage, which are significant though not the only drivers of our performance. We measure active customers to monitor the growth and performance of our customer base. The majority of our active customers send money for recurring, non-discretionary needs multiple times per month, providing a recurring revenue stream with high predictability and durability. Attracting New Customers Our continued ability to attract new customers to our platform is a key driver for our long-term growth. We continue to expand our customer base by launching new send and receive corridors, by continuing to innovate on existing and new products, and by providing the most trusted financial services for customers with cross-border financial needs. We plan to continue to acquire new customers through digital marketing channels and word-of-mouth referrals from existing customers, and by exploring new customer acquisition channels. Given the nature of our business, new customer acquisition marketing investments may negatively impact net loss and Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter they are acquired, but are expected to favorably impact net loss and Adjusted EBITDA in subsequent periods as many customers continue to send transactions in the periods after they are acquired. Customer Acquisition Costs Efficiently acquiring customers is critical to our growth and maintaining attractive customer economics, which are impacted by online marketing competition, our ability to effectively target the right demographic, and competitive environment. We have a history of successfully monitoring customer acquisition costs and will continue to be strategic and disciplined toward customer acquisition. For example, for performance marketing, we set rigorous customer acquisition targets that we continuously monitor to ensure a high return on investment over the long term, and we can increase or decrease this investment as desired. Customer acquisition costs which are deployed to acquire new customers or retain existing customers in certain circumstances, are a component of advertising expenses as defined in Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Corridor Mix Our business is global and certain attributes of our business vary by corridor, such as send amount, customer funding sources, and transaction frequency. For example, a period of high growth in receive corridors with large average send amounts, such as India, could disproportionately impact send volume while impacting active customers to a lesser extent. While shifts in our corridor mix could impact the trends in our global business, including send volume and customer economics, we have the ability to optimize these corridors over the long term based on their specific dynamics. 24 Table of Contents Seasonality Our operating results and metrics are subject to seasonality, which may result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results. For example, active customers and send volume generally peak as customers send gifts for regional and global holidays including, most notably, in the fourth quarter around the Christmas holiday. This seasonality typically drives higher fourth quarter customer acquisition, which generally results in higher fourth quarter marketing costs and transaction losses. It also results in higher transactions and transaction expenses, along with higher working capital needs. Other periods of favorable seasonality include Ramadan/Eid, Lunar New Year/Tt, and Mothers Day, although the impact is generally lower than the seasonality we see in the fourth quarter and the timing of some of these holidays varies from year to year. Conversely, we typically observe lower customer acquisition and existing customer activity through most of the first quarter, especially in regions that experience favorable seasonality in the fourth quarter. Following the fourth quarter, typically the second quarter is seasonally the next strongest quarter from an existing customer activity perspective, however customer activity and the impact on financial results can vary across quarters based on the timing of holidays and other geographic drivers. Additionally, the number of business days in a quarter and the day of the week that the last day of the quarter falls on may also introduce variability in our results, working capital balances, or cash flows period over period. Our Technology Platform We will continue to invest significant resources in our technology platform. These investments will allow us to introduce new and innovative products, add features to current products, enhance the customer and recipient experience, grow our payment and disbursement network, invest in our risk and security infrastructure, and continue to secure data in accordance with evolving best practices and legal requirements. While we expect our expenses related to technology and development to increase, which may impact short-term profitability, we believe these investments will ultimately contribute to our long-term growth. Management of Risk and Fraud We manage fraud (e.g., through identity theft) and other illegitimate activity (e.g., money laundering) by utilizing our proprietary risk models, which include machine learning processes, early warning systems, bespoke rules, and manual investigation processes. Our models and processes enable us to identify and address complex and evolving risks in these unwanted activities, while maintaining a differentiated customer experience. In addition, we integrate historical fraud loss data and other transaction data into our risk models, which helps us identify emerging patterns and quantify fraud and compliance risks across all aspects of our customer interactions. These models and processes allow us to achieve and maintain fraud loss rates within desired guardrails, as well as tune our risk models to target other illegitimate activity. Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Changes Global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including inflation, currency fluctuations, immigration, regulatory changes, trade and regulatory policies, regional and global conflicts, global crises and natural disasters, unemployment, potential recession, and the rate of digital remittance adoption impact demand for our services and the options that we can offer. These factors evolve over time, and periods of significant currency appreciation or depreciation, whether in send or receive currencies, changes to global migration patterns, and changes to digital adoption trends may shift the timing and volume of transactions, or the number of customers using our service. In addition, foreign currency movements impact our business in numerous ways. For example, as the U.S. dollar strengthens, we see customers in certain markets taking advantage of the ability to get more local currency to their families and friends. We also believe the strength of the U.S. dollar and the strength of other developed market currencies versus emerging market currencies make it easier to acquire new customers in certain markets. Conversely, expansion of our international business can negatively impact our condensed consolidated results when these currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar. As we grow, we are becoming more diversified across geographies and currencies, which can help mitigate some localized geopolitical risks and macroeconomic trends. As foreign currency can have a significant impact on our business, we strive to maintain a diversified cash balance portfolio and frequently assess for foreign currency cash concentrations. See Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a more comprehensive description of current business concentrations. 25 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue is generated on transaction fees charged to customers and foreign exchange spreads between the foreign exchange rate offered to customers and the foreign exchange rate on our currency purchases. Revenue is recognized, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for services provided, when control of these services is transferred to our customers, which is the time the funds have been delivered to the intended recipient. Costs and expenses Transaction Expenses Transaction expenses include fees paid to disbursement partners for paying funds to the recipient, provisions for transaction losses, and fees paid to payment processors for funding transactions. Transaction expenses also include credit losses, chargebacks, fraud prevention, fraud management tools, and compliance tools. We establish reserves for transaction losses based on historical trends and any specific risks identified in processing customer transactions. This reserve is included in Accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Over the long term we expect to continue to benefit from increasing scale and improvements in our proprietary fraud models, although we expect some variability in transaction expense from quarter to quarter. Customer Support and Operations Customer support and operations expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our customer support and operations organization, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, as well as third-party costs for customer support services, and travel and related office expenses. This includes our customer service teams which directly support our customers, consisting of online support and call centers, and other costs incurred to support our customers, including related telephony costs to support these teams, customer protection and risk teams, investments in tools to effectively service our customers, and increased customer self-service capabilities. Customer support and operations expenses also include corporate communication costs and professional services fees. Marketing Marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising costs used to attract new customers, including branding-related expenses. Marketing expenses also include personnel-related expenses associated with marketing organization staff, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, promotions, costs for software subscription services dedicated for use by marketing functions, and outside services contracted for marketing purposes. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for employees involved in the research, design, development, and maintenance of both new and existing products and services, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense. Technology and development expenses also include professional services fees and costs for software subscription services dedicated for use by our technology and development teams, as well as other company-wide technology tools. Technology and development expenses also include product and engineering teams used to support the development of both internal infrastructure and internal-use software, to the extent such costs do not qualify for capitalization. Technology and development costs are generally expensed as incurred and do not include software development costs which qualify for capitalization as internal-use software. The amortization of internal-use software costs which were capitalized in accordance with ASC 350-40, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software, are separately presented under the caption Depreciation and amortization within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We believe delivering new functionality and improving existing technology is critical to attract new customers and expand our relationship with existing customers. We expect to continue to make investments to expand our solutions in order to enhance our customers experience and satisfaction, and to attract new customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for our finance, legal, compliance, human resources, facilities, administrative personnel, and other leadership functions, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses also include professional services fees, software subscriptions, facilities, indirect taxes, and other corporate expenses, including acquisition and integration expenses. Such expenses primarily include external legal, accounting, valuation, and due diligence costs, advisory and other professional services fees necessary to integrate acquired businesses. See Note 6. Business Combinations in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation on property and equipment and leasehold improvements, as well as the amortization of internal-use software costs and amortization of intangible assets. 26 Table of Contents Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of the interest expense on our borrowings. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net, primarily includes foreign currency exchange gains and losses due to remeasurement of certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and state income taxes in the United States. We maintain a full valuation allowance for U.S. deferred tax assets, which includes net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance in the United States for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized based on our history of losses. Results of Operations Comparison of the three and nine months ended September 30,2024 and 2023 The following tables set forth our results of operations together with the dollar and percentage change for thethree and nine months endedSeptember 30,2024and2023: Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 Amount Percent 2024 2023 Amount Percent Revenue $ 336,527 $ 241,629 $ 94,898 39 % $ 912,068 $ 679,527 $ 232,541 34 % Costs and expenses Transaction expenses 115,554 85,742 29,812 35 % 313,215 239,995 73,220 31 % Customer support and operations 21,792 21,190 602 3 % 61,910 62,604 (694) (1) % Marketing 74,792 61,351 13,441 22 % 219,862 159,074 60,788 38 % Technology and development 68,446 57,014 11,432 20 % 199,206 160,699 38,507 24 % General and administrative 50,920 49,817 1,103 2 % 140,982 130,715 10,267 8 % Depreciation and amortization 4,655 3,418 1,237 36 % 12,240 9,634 2,606 27 % Total costs and expenses 336,159 278,532 57,627 21 % 947,415 762,721 184,694 24 % Income (loss) from operations 368 (36,903) 37,271 nm (35,347) (83,194) 47,847 (58) % Interest income 2,065 1,808 257 14 % 6,233 5,200 1,033 20 % Interest expense (760) (585) (175) 30 % (2,274) (1,566) (708) 45 % Other income (expense), net 2,094 283 1,811 640 % 6,272 (2,774) 9,046 (326) % Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 3,767 (35,397) 39,164 (111) % (25,116) (82,334) 57,218 (69) % Provision for income taxes 1,850 258 1,592 617 % 6,138 485 5,653 1166 % Net income (loss) $ 1,917 $ (35,655) $ 37,572 (105) % $ (31,254) $ (82,819) $ 51,565 (62) % __________ nm = not meaningful The following discussion and analysis is for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 27 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue increased 39%, or $94.9 million, and 34%, or $232.5 million, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by a 35% increase in active customers period over period, continued strength in the retention of existing customers, favorable customer behavior based on foreign currency movement, and a continued mix shift trending towards digital disbursements. Revenue derived from each transaction varies based on a number of attributes, including the funding method chosen by the customer, the size of the transaction, the currency to be ultimately disbursed, the rate at which the currency was disbursed, the disbursement method chosen by the customer, and the country to which the funds are transferred. As a reflection of this growth, send volume increased 42% and 38% to $14.5 billion and $39.2 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively, as compared to $10.2 billion and $28.4 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively. Transaction Expenses Transaction expenses increased $29.8 million, or 35%, to $115.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $85.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to a $21.9 million, or 31%, increase in direct costs associated with processing a higher volume of our customers remittance transactions and the disbursement of our customers funds to their recipients and a $7.7 million increase in our provision for transaction losses. Transaction expenses increased $73.2 million, or 31%, to $313.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $240.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to a $55.6 million, or 29%, increase in direct costs associated with processing a higher volume of our customers remittance transactions and the disbursement of our customers funds to their recipients and a $16.6 million increase in our provision for transaction losses. As a percentage of revenue, transaction expenses decreased to 34% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to 35% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. Customer Support and Operations Expenses Customer support and operations expenses increased $0.6 million, or 3%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by a $1.3 million increase in third-party personnel costs to support customer operations compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. This was partially offset by $0.7 million in restructuring costs incurred during the three months ended September 30, 2023 primarily related to severance (refer to Note 13. Restructuring Initiatives in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on the restructuring costs). Customer support and operations expenses decreased $0.7 million, or 1%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily driven by a $0.5 million decrease in personnel-related costs driven by a decrease in customer support and operations headcount and a $0.4 million decrease in other customer support and operating expenses compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. As a percentage of revenue, customer support and operations expenses decreased to 7% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, from 9% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to process improvements and automation driving scale across customer support headcount at internal and third-party customer support sites. Marketing Expenses Marketing expenses increased $13.4 million, or 22%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to an increase of $10.8 million in advertising expense and other targeted marketing expense, including online and offline marketing spend and promotion costs to acquire new customers. In addition, personnel-related costs increased by $1.9 million, driven by a 19% increase in marketing headcount compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. Marketing expenses increased $60.8 million, or 38%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to an increase of $51.6 million in advertising expense and other targeted marketing expense, including online and offline marketing spend and promotion costs to acquire new customers. In addition, personnel-related costs increased by $7.1 million, driven by a 23% increase in marketing headcount compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. As a percentage of revenue, marketing expenses decreased to 22% for the three months ended September 30, 2024, from 25% for the three months ended September 30, 2023, due to channel efficiencies and optimized local marketing. As a percentage of revenue, marketing expenses increased to 24% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from 23% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. 28 Table of Contents Technology and Development Expenses Technology and development expenses increased $11.4 million, or 20%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was driven by $9.7 million in personnel-related expenses, net of personnel-related expenses capitalized as internal-use software, resulting from a 22% increase in headcount compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023, as part of our continued investment in our technology platform. The increase in technology and development expense was also driven by a $2.0 million increase in software costs for cloud services to support incremental transaction volume. Technology and development expenses increased $38.5 million, or 24%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was driven by $32.0 million in personnel-related expenses, net of personnel-related expenses capitalized as internal-use software, resulting from a 27% increase in headcount compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as part of our continued investment in our technology platform. The increase in technology and development expense was also driven by a $6.0 million increase in software costs for cloud services to support incremental transaction volume. As a percentage of revenue, technology and development expenses decreased to 20% and 22% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively, from 24% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, as we benefited from increasing efficiencies and scale. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $1.1 million, or 2%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by a $4.9 million increase in personnel-related expenses resulting from a 24% increase in headcount compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. This was partially offset by a $2.0 million decrease in the fair market value of our charitable contributions related to our annual Pledge 1% donation and $1.7 million reduction in professional fees. General and administrative expenses increased $10.3 million, or 8%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by a $16.4 million increase in personnel-related expenses resulting from a 23% increase in headcount compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. This was partially offset by a $2.6 million decrease in taxes, a $2.1 million decrease in acquisition and integration costs, primarily related to the change in the fair value of the holdback liability, and a $2.0 million decrease in the fair market value of our charitable contributions related to our annual Pledge 1% donation. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses decreased to 15% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, from 21% and 19% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, as we continue to leverage scale in our general and administrative functions. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $1.2 million and $2.6 million, or 36% and 27%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase is primarily driven by an increase in amortization of internal-use software. Interest Income Interest income increased $0.3 million and $1.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. These increases are primarily due to an increase in average invested balances throughout the periods. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to draws on the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is primarily driven by unrealized losses and gains on foreign exchange remeasurements of certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes increased $1.6 million and $5.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase is primarily due to increases in taxable income in certain foreign jurisdictions and decreases in discrete income tax benefits related to excess stock-based compensation deductions. 29 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures We regularly review the following non-GAAP measure to evaluate our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. We believe that this non-GAAP measure provides meaningful supplemental information for management and investors in assessing our historical and future operating performance. The calculation of this non-GAAP measure discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, analysts, or investors. We use Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure to supplement net income (loss). Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as net income (loss) adjusted by (i) interest (income) expense, net; (ii) provision for income taxes; (iii) noncash charges of depreciation and amortization; (iv) gains and losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency assets and liabilities into their functional currency; (v) noncash charges associated with our donation of common stock in connection with our Pledge 1% commitment; (vi) noncash stock-based compensation expense, net; and (vii) certain acquisition, integration, restructuring, and other costs. Adjusted EBITDA is a key output measure used by our management to evaluate our operating performance, inform future operating plans, and make strategic long-term decisions, including those relating to operating expenses and the allocation of internal resources. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include the following: although depreciation and amortization are noncash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures or other capital commitments; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the effect of income taxes that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the effect of gains and losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency assets and liabilities into their functional currency; Adjusted EBITDA excludes noncash charges associated with the donation of our common stock in connection with our Pledge 1% commitment, which is recorded in general and administrative expenses; Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, net, which has recently been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain transaction costs related to acquisition, integration, restructuring, and other costs. The acquisition and integration costs are primarily related to the Rewire acquisition and primarily include external legal, accounting, valuation, and due diligence costs, advisory and other professional services fees necessary to integrate acquired businesses, and the change in the fair value of the holdback liability as part of the acquisition of Rewire. The restructuring costs are primarily related to severance and other associated costs; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently from how we calculate this measure or not at all, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. 30 Table of Contents The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP, for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Net income (loss) $ 1,917 $ (35,655) $ (31,254) $ (82,819) Add: Interest income, net (1,305) (1,223) (3,959) (3,634) Provision for income taxes 1,850 258 6,138 485 Depreciation and amortization 4,655 3,418 12,240 9,634 Foreign exchange (gain) loss (2,274) (376) (6,667) 2,611 Donation of common stock(1) 2,587 4,600 2,587 4,600 Stock-based compensation expense, net 39,278 36,573 110,523 101,007 Acquisition, integration, restructuring, and other costs(2) 2,901 1,468 4,390 Adjusted EBITDA $ 46,708 $ 10,496 $ 91,076 $ 36,274 __________ (1) Refer to Note 11. Common Stock within the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further detail on the donation of common stock. (2) Acquisition, integration, restructuring, and other costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 consisted primarily of $0.8 million in restructuring charges incurred, $0.5 million of non-recurring legal charges, and $0.2 million related to the change in the fair value of the holdback liability associated with the acquisition of Rewire (O.S.G.) Research and Development Ltd. ("Rewire"). Acquisition, integration, restructuring, and other costs for the three months ended September 30, 2023 consisted primarily of $1.4 million in restructuring charges incurred, $0.9 million related to the change in the fair value of the holdback liability, and $0.6 million of expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Rewire. Acquisition, integration, restructuring, and other costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 consisted primarily of $1.9 million related to the change in the fair value of the holdback liability, $1.4 million in restructuring charges incurred, and $1.1 million of expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Rewire. Refer to Note 6. Business Combinations and Note 13. Restructuring Initiatives in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on these costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity and Material Future Cash Requirements As of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $324.4 million and $323.7 million, respectively, as well as funds available under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility, which we entered into in September 2021. The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility was amended on December 20, 2023 to increase the revolving commitments from $250.0 million (including a $60.0 million letter of credit sub-facility) to $325.0 million. We have historically financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through cash generated from operations including transaction fees and foreign exchange spreads. In recent periods, we have supplemented those cash flows with borrowings on our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility, primarily to support customer transaction volumes during peak periods and weekends, which we expect to continue to do in the future. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, the average term of outstanding borrowings under our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility was approximately four days. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we cumulatively borrowed $863.0 million against this credit facility and repaid $993.0 million. Operations continue to be substantially funded by the existing cash we have on hand and ongoing utilization of the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (including the letter of credit sub-facility), which included active borrowings and repayments during the nine months ended September 30, 2024. As of September 30, 2024, we have unused borrowing capacity of $276.3 million. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, and funds available under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our material cash requirements include funds to support current and potential operating activities, capital expenditures, and other commitments, and could include other uses of cash, such as strategic investments. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of expansion into new corridors, and the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements of existing products, and other strategic investments. Furthermore, certain jurisdictions where we operate require us to hold eligible liquid assets, based on regulatory or legal requirements, equal to the aggregate amount of all customer balances that have not yet been disbursed. In addition, as discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we expect that our operating expenses may continue to increase to support the continued growth of our business, including increased investments in our technology to support product improvements, new product development, and geographic expansion. We also routinely enter into marketing and advertising contracts, software subscriptions and other service arrangements, including cloud infrastructure arrangements, which are generally entered into in the ordinary course of business, and that can include minimum purchase quantities, requiring us to utilize cash on hand to fulfill these amounts. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments discussed further below. 31 Table of Contents In the future, we may also attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or through equity-linked securities, and the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. In addition, if we raise additional financing by incurring additional indebtedness, we may be subject to increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that are unfavorable to equity investors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital. The inability to raise capital would adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. The following table shows a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods presented: Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities(1) $ 138,850 $ (25,168) Investing activities (12,480) (47,450) Financing activities(1) (128,899) (3,475) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 3,941 (599) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 1,412 $ (76,692) _________________ (1) Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Cash Flows Operating Activities Our main sources of operating cash are transaction fees charged to customers and foreign exchange spreads on transactions. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for advertising expenses used to attract new customers, transaction expenses that include fees paid to payment processors and disbursement partners, personnel-related expenses, technology, and other general corporate expenditures. Our changes in operating cash flows are heavily impacted by the timing of customer transactions and, in particular, the day of the week that the quarter end falls on, including holidays and long weekends. For example, we generally have higher prefunding amounts if the quarter closes on a weekend or in advance of a long weekend, such as a holiday, which creates variability in customer transaction-related balances period over period and can reduce our cash position at a particular point in time. These balances within our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows include disbursement prefunding, customer funds receivable, customer liabilities, and disbursement postfunding liabilities and book overdrafts, both of which are included within the line item Accrued expenses and other liabilities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $138.9 million, which was primarily driven by timing impacts of current growth in our global network. Specifically, as a result of both growth and timing, we saw an increase in cash flow related to customer funds working capital changes of $63.8 million related to combined customer funds receivable, customer liabilities, disbursement prefunding, and trade settlement liability. In addition to these and other changes in working capital, the cash generated from operations reflects the $31.3 million net loss for the period exclusive of the $125.6 million of noncash charges. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $25.2 million, which was primarily driven by an increase in overall growth in our global network of funding and disbursement partnerships and an increase in volume of customer transactions. Specifically, as a result of both growth and timing, we saw an increase in disbursement prefunding of $52.2 million and customer funds receivable of $68.6 million, offset by an increase in customer liabilities of $29.2 million and accrued expenses and other liabilities, which is inclusive of our trade settlement liability, of $28.1 million, which were the key drivers for the unfavorable changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $62.3 million. This change in our operating assets and liabilities was also partially offset by cash generated from our operations, when excluding the $119.9 million of noncash charges included within the $82.8 million net loss for the period. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of property and equipment, capitalization of internal-use software, and cash paid for acquisitions of businesses, net of acquired cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Net cash used in investing activities was $12.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, a decrease of $35.0 million, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $47.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was primarily driven by the acquisition of Rewire in the first quarter of 2023 of $40.9 million, offset by an increase in capitalized internal-use software costs of $5.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of borrowings on our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility, proceeds from the exercise of stock options, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with ESPP, offset by repayments of borrowings and other indebtedness. 32 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was $128.9 million, an increase of $125.4 million, compared to net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 of $3.5 million. The increase was primarily driven by the increase in net repayments on our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility of $130.0 million and the settlement of amounts previously held back for the Rewire acquisition of $10.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. offset by the repayment of assumed indebtedness of $17.1 million that occurred in the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of standby letters of credit, long-term leases, and other purchase commitments entered into in the normal course of business. In addition, we routinely enter into marketing and advertising contracts, software subscriptions or other service arrangements, including cloud infrastructure arrangements, and compliance-application related arrangements that contractually obligate us to purchase services, including minimum service quantities, unless we give notice of cancellation based on the applicable terms of the agreements. Most contracts are typically cancellable within a period of less than one year, although some of our larger software or cloud service subscriptions require multi-year commitments. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, other than software, cloud infrastructure (as described below), marketing, compliance-tool related contracts, and leases (as described below) entered into in the normal course of business, there were no other material changes to the contractual obligations and contingencies as disclosed in Note 18. Commitments and Contingencies and Note 20. Leases in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. For further discussion of commitments and contingencies, also refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Purchase Commitments During the nine months ended September 30, 2024,we entered into a three-year cloud infrastructure arrangement. For further details on this arrangement, refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Significant Lease Not Yet Commenced In June 2024, we entered into an agreement to lease certain office space in Seattle, Washington, for the use of our corporate headquarters office. For further details on this lease agreement, refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2024, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our condensed consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. From time to time, we do enter into short-term leases that have lease terms of less than 12 months, and are typically month-to-month in nature. As described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we elected not to record leases on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets if the lease term is 12 months or less. For further information on our lease arrangements, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Critical Accounting Estimates The condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. The Companys estimates are based on historical experience and on various other factors that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes, other than as described in Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements to the critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 33