Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Item 2 contains certain non-GAAP financial information. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for important information regarding the non-GAAP financial information included in this Item 2 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, together with a reconciliation of such non-GAAP financial information presented to the most comparable GAAP financial information. Certain statements in this Report, including, without limitation, matters discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and other detailed information included elsewhere in this Report and with our audited consolidated financial statements, related notes thereto, and other detailed information included in Part I, Item 1A in our Annual Report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth under Risk Factors in this Report and in our Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise the information contained herein including, without limitation, any forward-looking statements or such risk factors whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, or otherwise, unless otherwise required by law. We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements, and include statements with respect to our beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, and future performance. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors, which may be beyond our control, and that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, intentions and expectations. These statements are neither guarantees nor indicative of future performance. Overview Signature is a Delaware holding company that owns all of the outstanding interests of its primary operating companies, Real Alloy Parent and SGGH, LLC. In 2014, the Companys principal activities were in the former Industrial Supply operating segment. Following the NABCO Sale and the Real Alloy Acquisition, both of which occurred in the first quarter of 2015, our principal activities will be related to our aluminum recycling and specification alloys business and reported as such in the future. The Real Alloy Acquisition is a transformative event for the Company, both in terms of size and substance. Over the coming months, we plan to devote significant time and attention to integrating and incorporating the Real Alloy Business into the Company, even as a largely stand-alone operating segment. For more information on the details of the Real Alloy Acquisition and the Financings for such transaction, please see Note 1 Business and Operations and Note 3 Business Combinations in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Real Alloy is a global leader in third-party aluminum recycling, which includes the processing of scrap aluminum and by-products and the manufacturing of wrought, cast and specification or foundry alloys. Real Alloy offers a broad range of products and services to wrought alloy processors, automotive original equipment manufacturers, and foundries and casters. Real Alloy processes scrap aluminum and by-products and delivers recycled metal in liquid or solid form according to its customers specifications. Its facilities are capable of processing industrial (new) scrap, post-consumer (old/obsolete) scrap, and various aluminum by-products, giving it a great degree of flexibility in reclaiming high-quality recycled aluminum for its customers. Going forward, Signatures focus is on the growth of the Real Alloy business, as well as acquisitions of additional operating companies. We seek to acquire controlling interests in businesses with talented and experienced management teams, strong margins, and defensible market positions. We regularly consider acquisitions of businesses that operate in undervalued industries, as well as businesses that we believe are in transition or are otherwise misunderstood by the marketplace. Post-acquisition, we plan to operate our businesses as autonomous subsidiaries. We anticipate that we will continue to use our securities to pursue value-enhancing acquisitions and leverage our considerable tax assets, as well as support the growth needs of our existing operating segments, as necessary. A key element to our business strategy is utilizing our federal and state NOLs, primarily generated by Signatures former businesses, then known as Fremont and its primary operating subsidiary, FIL. As of December 31, 2014, our federal and California NOLs are approximately $933.6 million and $994.7 million, respectively. The NOLs are further discussed in Note 9 Income Taxes in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. 28 Our Segments The Companys consolidated financial statements included in this Report and MD&A present the Companys financial condition and results of operations by operating segment and discontinued operations. We have two operating segments based on the organizational structure that we currently use to evaluate performance, make decisions on resource allocations and perform business reviews of financial results. One additional line of business, a specialty cosmetics company, does not meet the criteria of a reportable segment and is included in Corporate and Other. The Companys reportable operating segments are RANA and RAEU. For the first quarter of 2015, the Company is only reporting the results of these reportable operating segments for the thirty-three days from February 27, 2015 through March 31, 2015, which only represents a fraction of a typical quarter of performance. In addition to analyzing our consolidated operating performance based on revenues, we measure the performance of our operating segments utilizing Adjusted EBITDA, discussed further below in Critical Measures of Our Financial Performance. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that has limitations as an analytical tool and should be considered in addition to, and not in isolation, or as a substitute for, or as superior to, our measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Management, including the chief operating decision-maker, uses Adjusted EBITDA in managing and assessing the performance of our business segments and overall business, and believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides investors and other users of our financial information with additional useful information regarding the ongoing performance of the underlying business activities of our segments, as well as comparisons between our current results and results in prior periods. For additional information regarding non-GAAP financial measures, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Real Alloy North America Our RANA segment includes aluminum melting, processing, recycling, and alloying activities. It consists of eighteen facilities located in the United States, Canada and Mexico. This segments operations convert aluminum scrap and dross (a by-product of melting aluminum) and combine these materials with other alloying agents, hardeners, or other additives, as needed, to produce recycled aluminum alloys with chemical compositions and specific properties, including increased strength, formability and wear resistance, as specified by customers for their particular applications. RANA services customers serving end-uses related to automotive, consumer packaging, construction, transportation and steel. A significant percentage of this segments volume is sold through tolling arrangements, in which RANA converts customer-owned scrap and dross and returns the recycled metal in ingot or molten form to our customers for a fee. Metric tons invoiced, revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for RANA for 33 days are presented below: Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in millions, tons in thousands) 2015 Buy/Sell metric tons invoiced 31.4 Toll metric tons invoiced 42.1 Total metric tons invoiced 73.5 Total revenues $ 86.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 5.2 Real Alloy Europe We are a leading European recycler of aluminum scrap and magnesium through our RAEU segment. This segments operations primarily convert aluminum scrap, dross and other alloying agents as needed and deliver the recycled metal in ingot or molten form to our customers from six facilities located in Germany, Norway and Wales. Our RAEU segment supplies the European automobile industry and other aluminum producers and manufacturers serving other European aluminum industries. A significant percentage of this segments volume is sold through tolling arrangements, in which RAEU converts customer-owned scrap and dross and returns the recycled metal in ingot or molten form to our customers for a fee. 29 Metric tons invoiced, revenues, and Adjusted EBITDA for RAEU for 33 days are presented below: Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in millions, tons in thousands) 2015 Buy/Sell metric tons invoiced 17.3 Toll metric tons invoiced 21.0 Total metric tons invoiced 38.3 Total revenues $ 51.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 2.7 Corporate and Other Operating costs in Corporate and Other relate to administrative, financial and human resource activities that are not allocated to specific operations and are excluded from segment results of operations, as management excludes such costs when assessing segment performance, along with operating entities that do not meet the threshold of a reportable segment. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations presents the financial condition and results of operations of the businesses and operations that have been sold, or have been discontinued by the Company, including NABCO and certain of Fremonts former operations. During the first quarter of 2015, NABCO was sold for a gain of $39.8 million and its results of operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. Discontinued operations includes operating costs and liabilities associated with various litigation matters pertaining to Fremonts prior business activities. As of March 31, 2015, SGGH, LLC was a party to twenty defensive cases involving individual home borrowers, the majority of whom are contesting foreclosure proceedings against the loan servicer and current mortgage owner, and where Fremont or FIL has been named in the matter because it was the originator of the mortgage. SGGH, LLC has also received notices for defense, contribution and indemnification from investment banks and other counterparties who purchased Fremont loans and are currently defendants in litigation matters to which we are not a party. We are also involved in two defensive cases involving former Fremont executives seeking severance claims. The largest liability within discontinued operations is the residential loan repurchase reserve, which has been reduced to $5.3 million as of March 31, 2015. See Legal Proceedings in Note 15 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for more information about the material legal proceedings in which we are involved. Critical Measures of Our Financial Performance The financial performance of our operating segments is the result of several factors, the most critical of which are as follows: Volumes invoiced; Tolling and Buy/Sell percentages; and Adjusted EBITDA The financial performance of the Real Alloy business is determined, in part, by the volume of metric tons invoiced and processed. Increased production volume will normally result in lower per unit costs, while higher invoiced volumes will normally result in additional revenue and associated margins. A significant component of our revenue is derived from aluminum prices that we generally pass through to our customers. Revenues and margin percentages are subject to fluctuations based upon the percentage of customer-owned metric tons tolled or processed. Increased processing under such tolling agreements results in lower revenues and generally also results in higher gross profit and net earnings margins. Tolling agreements subject us to less risk of changing metal prices and reduce our working capital requirements. Although tolling agreements are beneficial to us in these ways, the percentage of our metric tons able to be processed under these agreements is limited by the amount of metal our customers own and their willingness to enter into such arrangements. In order to reduce its exposure to fluctuation in the price of aluminum, Real Alloy focuses on tolling relationships, reducing working capital and managing its commercial inventory position. Real Alloy also utilizes various derivative financial instruments designed to reduce the impact of changing aluminum prices on these net physical purchases and sales. Real Alloys risk management practices reduce but do not eliminate its exposure to changing aluminum prices. While these practices limit exposure to unfavorable aluminum price changes, they also limit Real Alloys ability to benefit from favorable price changes. Further, our counterparties may require the posting of cash collateral if the fair value of derivative liabilities exceeds the amount of credit granted by each counterparty, thereby reducing liquidity. At March 31, 2015, no cash collateral was posted with counterparties. 30 Our measure of profitability for our operating segments is Adjusted EBITDA, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and excludes items of a nonoperational, or nonrecurring nature which may include unrealized and certain realized gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, charges and expenses related to acquisitions, and certain other gains and losses. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures contained in Part I, Item 2 of this Report for a further discussion of our use of non-GAAP financial measures. Margins are impacted by the fees we charge our customers to process their metal and by metal spreads which represent the difference between the purchase price of the scrap aluminum we buy and our selling prices. Scrap prices tend to be determi ned regionally and are significantly impacted by supply and demand. While scrap prices may trend in a similar direction as primary aluminum prices, the extent of price movements is not highly correlated and can cause unpredictable movements in metal spreads. Our operations are labor intensive and also require a significant amount of energy (primarily natural gas and electricity) to melt scrap or primary aluminum. As a result, we incur a significant amount of fixed and variable labor and overhead costs, which we refer to as conversion costs. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accounting and reporting policies conform to GAAP and are fundamental to understanding our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and this MD&A. Several of our policies are critical as they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, and operating revenues and costs included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Circumstances and events that differ significantly from those underlying our estimates, assumptions and judgments could cause the actual amounts reported to differ significantly from these estimates. Prior to the Real Alloy Acquisition, these policies governed (i) the repurchase reserve; (ii) deferred tax asset valuation; and (iii) goodwill and intangible assets, each of which is described in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions used in these policies based on historical experience and various other factors and circumstances. We believe our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates and assumptions, which could have a material impact on the carrying value of assets and liabilities as of the balance sheet dates and our results of operations for the reporting periods presented. A summary of our significant accounting policies and estimates is included in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report and supplemented in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. As a result of the Real Alloy Acquisition and the NABCO Sale, we have identified the following additional critical accounting policies or estimates. Business combinations All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method where the purchase price paid is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Discontinued operations A component of an entity that is disposed of or classified as held for sale is reported as a discontinued operation if the transaction represents a strategic shift that will have a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results. The results of discontinued operations are aggregated and presented separately in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations and cash flows. Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations are aggregated and reported separately as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Operations designated as discontinued operations as of March 31, 2015 are presented in discontinued operations for all periods presented. Revenue recognition and shipping and handling costs Revenues are recognized when title transfers and risk of loss passes to the customer, in accordance with SAB 104. This typically occurs when the goods reach their destination. For customer-owned toll material, revenue is recognized upon the performance of the tolling service for the customers. For material that is consigned, revenue is not recognized until the product is used by the customer. Shipping and handling costs are included within cost of sales in the condensed consolidated statements of operations included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. 31 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined primarily on the average cost or specific identification method and includes material, labor and overhead related to the manufacturing process. We review our inventory values on a regular basis to ensure that their carrying values can be realized. In assessing the ultimate realization of inventories, we are required to make judgments as to future demand requirements and compare that with the current or committed inventory levels. As the ultimate realizable value of most inventory is based upon the price of prime or scrap aluminum, future changes in those prices may lead to the determination that the cost of some, or all, of our inventory will not be realized, which would lead to recording the appropriate adjustment to inventory values. Derivative financial instruments Real Alloy is engaged in activities that expose it to various market risks, including changes in the prices of aluminum alloys, scrap aluminum, copper, zinc and natural gas, as well as changes in currency exchange rates. Certain of these financial exposures are managed as an integral part of its risk management program, which seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of the markets may have on operating results. Real Alloy may enter into forward contracts or swaps to manage its exposure to market risk. The fair value of these instruments is reflected in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the impact of these instruments is reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Real Alloy does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The fair values of Real Alloys derivative financial instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities at the balance sheet dates. Fair values for its metal and natural gas derivative instruments, if any, are determined based on the differences between contractual and forward rates of identical hedge positions as of the balance sheet date. Real Alloy has included an estimate of the risk associated with nonperformance by either itself or its counterparties in developing these fair values. See Note 12 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included Part I, Item 1 of this Report for additional information about our derivative instruments. Real Alloy does not account for its derivative financial instruments as hedges. The changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that are not accounted for as hedges and the associated gains and losses realized upon settlement are recorded in losses on derivative financial instruments in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. All realized gains and losses are included within net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Real Alloy is exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by its counterparties. Currency translation Certain of Real Alloys international subsidiaries use local currency as their functional currency. We translate substantially all of the amounts included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations from our international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars at average monthly exchange rates, which management believes is representative of the actual exchange rates on the dates of the transactions. Adjustments resulting from the translation of the assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at the balance sheet date exchange rates are reflected as a separate component of stockholders equity. Currency translation adjustments accumulate in stockholders equity until the disposition or liquidation of the international subsidiary. Currency transactional gains and losses associated with receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are included within other expense (income), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The translation of accounts receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies resulted in transactional losses of $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Environmental and asset retirement obligations Environmental obligations that are not legal or contractual asset retirement obligations and that relate to existing conditions caused by past operations with no benefit to future operations are expensed while expenditures that extend the life, increase the capacity or improve the safety of an asset or that mitigate or prevent future environmental contamination are capitalized in property, plant and equipment. Our environmental engineers and consultants review and monitor environmental issues at our existing operating sites. This process includes investigation and remedial action selection and implementation, as well as negotiations with other potentially responsible parties and governmental agencies. Based on the results of this process, we provide reserves for environmental liabilities when and if environmental assessment and/or remediation cost are probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with ASC 410. While our accruals are based on managements current best estimate of the future costs of remedial action, these liabilities can change substantially due to factors such as the nature and extent of contamination, changes in the required remedial actions and technological advancements. Our existing environmental liabilities are not discounted to their present values as the amount and timing of the expenditures are not fixed or reliably determinable. Asset retirement obligations represent obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. Our asset retirement obligations relate primarily to the requirement to cap our three landfills, as well as costs related to the future removal of asbestos and costs to remove underground storage tanks. The fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation is recognized in the period in 32 which it is incurred and capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the associated long-lived asset. These fair values are based upon the present value of the future cash flows expected to be incurred to satisfy the obligation. Determining the fair value of asset retirement obligations requires judgment, including estimates of the credit adjusted interest rate and estimates of future cash flows. Estimates of future cash flows are obtained primarily from independent engineering consulting firms. The present value of the obligations is accreted over time, while the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. Pension benefits Pension benefit costs are accrued based on annual analyses performed by actuaries. These analyses are based on assumptions such as an assumed discount rate and an expected rate of return on plan assets. Both the discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets require estimates and projections by management and can fluctuate from period to period. Real Alloys objective in selecting a discount rate is to select the best estimate of the rate at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. In making this estimate, projected cash flows are developed and matched with a yield curve based on an appropriate universe of high-quality corporate bonds. Assumptions for long-term rates of return on plan assets are based upon historical returns and future expectations for returns. See Note 3 Business Combinations in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for more information about the assumptions used to determine the pension benefit obligation as of the date of the Real Alloy Acquisition. The actuarial assumptions used to determine pension benefits may differ from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of participants. We do not believe differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions will materially affect our financial position or results of operations. Results of Operations The following table presents selected components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014: Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2015 2014 Revenues $ 137.8 $ 0.1 Cost of sales 133.0 Gross profit 4.8 0.1 Operating costs 7.6 2.6 Operating loss (2.8 ) (2.5 ) Nonoperating expense (income) 22.1 (0.8 ) Loss from continuing operations before income taxes (24.9 ) (1.7 ) Income tax benefit (7.4 ) (0.3 ) Loss from continuing operations (17.5 ) (1.4 ) Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 24.3 1.5 Net earnings 6.8 0.1 Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 0.1 Net earnings attributable to Signature Group Holdings, Inc. $ 6.7 $ 0.1 EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share: Continuing operations $ (0.82 ) $ (0.10 ) Discontinued operations 1.12 0.11 Basic and diluted earnings per share $ 0.30 $ 0.01 Consolidated Results of Operations As a result of the transformation of our business in the first quarter of 2015 from the Real Alloy Acquisition and the NABCO Sale, historical comparisons of our operating results are limited in value and we have elected not to make any comparisons that management deems could be misleading. As discussed in more detail below in Segments Results of Operations, net earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased $6.7 million to $6.8 million, from $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Basic and diluted earnings per share were $0.30 per share and $0.01 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our consolidated results only include the results of operation of Real Alloy from the acquisition date through March 31, 2015, or thirty-three days, and 33 include a number of one-time expenses related to the acquisition and the related financing. Particularly noteworthy, we incurred $14.4 million of transaction and financing-related costs and fees during the period; $3.7 million in one-time costs related to the amortization of the fair value adjustment of inventories under purchase accounting; and approximately $4.9 million of interest expense (including amortization of issuance discount and debt origination costs) associated with the Senior Secured Notes for the fifty days from funding on January 8, 2015 to the closing date of the Real Alloy Acquisition where we had no offsetting operations from Real Alloy. Segments Results of Operations The following table presents our segment result of operations of the three months ended March 31, 2015. As there were no segments for 2014, we are not showing a segment table for the three months ended March 31, 2014. (Dollars in millions, tons in thousands) RANA RAEU Buy/Sell metric tons invoiced 31.4 17.3 Toll metric tons invoiced 42.1 21.0 Total metric tons invoiced 73.5 38.3 Revenues $ 86.4 $ 51.4 Cost of sales (excluding depreciation) 81.2 48.3 Gross profit 5.2 3.1 Cost of sales related to impact of recording inventory at fair value 2.7 1.0 Gross profit adjusted to exclude impact of recording inventory at fair value 7.9 4.1 Selling, general and administrative expenses (excluding depreciation) 2.7 1.3 Other operating expense, net 0.1 0.1 Other EBITDA Adjustments 0.1 0.3 Adjusted EBITDA $ 5.2 $ 2.7 (Dollars in millions) Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Adjusted EBITDA $ 7.9 Unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments (0.1 ) Depreciation and amortization 3.7 Share-based compensation expense 0.3 Impact of recording inventory at fair value through purchase accounting 3.7 Other operating expense, net 3.1 Nonoperating expense (income): Interest expense 8.1 Change in fair value of common stock warrant liability (0.7 ) Acquisition-related costs and expenses 14.4 Other, net 0.3 Total nonoperating expense (income) 22.1 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes $ (24.9 ) As previously discussed, as a result of the transformative transactions completed in the first quarter of 2015, the current period results of operations are not comparable to the prior period. The results of operations of Real Alloy are included from the acquisition date, February 27, 2015, through March 31, 2015. RANA Segment General For the thirty-three day period ended March 31, 2015, RANA generated $5.2 million of Adjusted EBITDA on $86.4 million of total revenues. During the period, buy/sell arrangements with our customers represented 43% of total invoiced volume, while tolling arrangements represented 57%. Overall volume and the mix of buy/sell and toll volume were consistent with the similar period in 2014, while the business was operated by Aleris. See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for more information about Adjusted EBITDA. 34 Gross profit Gross profit for RANA was $5.2 million for the thirty-three days ended March 31, 2015, representing a margin of 6.0% of total revenues. RANAs cost of sales includes $2.7 million in expenses associated with purchase accounting due to the amortization of the fair value adjustment of acquired inventory, which will not be significant in the future. Excluding this amount, gross profit would have been $7.9 million during the period or a gross margin of 9.1%. Gross profit improved over the similar period in 2 014 due to commercial efforts and favorable market conditions when the business was part of Aleris. Operating costs Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, were $2.7 million for the thirty-three days ended March 31, 2015. As a result of corporate overhead allocations from Aleris prior to the Real Alloy Acquisition, current and prior period SG&A expenses are not comparable. In addition, Real Alloy is incurring transition services expenses for support received from Aleris for information technology services, treasury services, accounts payable, cash management and payroll, credit/collection services, environmental services and human resource services . As Real Alloy implements its separation from Aleris, management expects expenses related to the transition services agreement with Aleris to decrease over the remainder of the year, but such costs and expenses will be replaced directly at Real Alloy as it builds out its own stand-alone infrastructure. We expect the ongoing expenses as a stand-alone operation will be below the expenses associated with the transition services provided by Aleris. Other operating information There were no realized gains or losses on derivative financial instruments, and unrealized gains were $0.1 million for the thirty-three days ended March 31, 2015. Generally, realized gains or losses represent the cash paid or received upon settlement of our derivative financial instruments. Unrealized gains or losses reflect the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments from the later of the end of the prior period or our entering into the derivative instrument, as well as the reversal of previously recorded unrealized gains or losses for derivatives that settled during the period. Depreciation and amortization was $2.5 million for the thirty-three days ended March 31, 2015. As a result of purchase accounting adjustments, which increased the carrying value of property, plant and equipment to estimated fair value at the acquisition date, depreciation and amortization expense for the same period in 2014 is not comparable. RAEU Segment General For the thirty-three day period ended March 31, 2015, RAEU generated $2.7 million of Adjusted EBITDA on $51.4 million of total revenue. During the period, buy/sell arrangements with our customers represented 45% of total invoiced volume, while tolling arrangements represented 55%. Overall volume and the mix of buy/sell and toll volumes were consistent with the similar period in 2014, while the business was operated by Aleris. See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for more information about Adjusted EBITDA. Gross profit Gross profit for RAEU was $3.1 million for the thirty-three days ended March 31, 2015, representing a margin of 6.0% of total revenue. RAEUs cost of sales includes $1.0 million in expenses associated with purchase accounting due to the amortization of the fair value adjustment of acquired inventory, which will not be significant in the future. Excluding this amount, gross profit would have been $4.1 million during the period, or a gross margin of 8.0%. Excluding the impact of currency translation, gross profit has improved over the similar period in 2014, while the business was operated by Aleris. Operating costs SG&A expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, were $1.3 million for the thirty-three days ended March 31, 2015. As a result of corporate overhead allocations from Aleris prior to the Real Alloy Acquisition, current and prior period SG&A expenses are not comparable. In addition, Real Alloy is incurring transition services expenses for support received from Aleris for information technology services, treasury services, accounts payable, cash management and payroll, credit/collection services, environmental services and human resource services . As Real Alloy implements its separation from Aleris, management expects expenses related to the transition services agreement with Aleris to decrease over the remainder of the year, but such costs and expenses will be replaced directly at Real Alloy as the business builds out its own stand-alone infrastructure. We expect the ongoing expenses as a stand-alone operation to be below the expenses associated with Aleris transition services. 35 Other operating information Generally, realized gains or losses represent the cash paid or received upon settlement of our derivative financial instruments. Unrealized gains or losses reflect the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments from the later of the end of the prior period or our entering into the derivative instrument, as well as the reversal of previously recorded unrealized gains or losses for derivatives that settled during the period. Depreciation and amortization was $1.2 million for the thirty-three days ended March 31, 2015. As a result of purchase accounting adjustments, which increased the carrying value of property, plant and equipment to estimated fair value at the acquisition date, depreciation and amortization expense for the same period in 2014 is not comparable. Operating costs outside of segments Our operating costs related to administrative, financial and human resource activities that are not allocated to specific segments are considered Corporate and Other, as management excludes such costs when assessing segment performance. Additionally, Corporate and Other includes the costs of Cosmedicine, LLC, a small operating subsidiary of SGGH, LLC that is re-launching a line of branded specialty skin care products, as it does not meet the threshold of a reportable segment. In the first quarter of 2015, operating costs in Corporate and Other were $3.0 million, which includes $2.7 million related to corporate administrative, financial and human resource activities. Nonoperating expenses and income Interest expense Interest expense for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 was $8.1 million and is related to long-term debt and the Factoring Facility. Included in interest expense are the amortization of debt issuance costs, which represent original issue discounts, placement and advisory fees, legal, accounting and other costs associated with issuing such debt. The amortization of debt issuance costs included in interest expense in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $1.1 million. Interest expense and amortization of original issue discount and debt issuance costs associated with the Senior Secured Notes are for the period January 8, 2015 through March 31, 2015, while the interest expense and debt issuance costs associated with the Factoring Facility and Asset-Based Facility are for the period February 27, 2015 through March 31, 2015. Acquisition and financing-related costs and expenses Acquisition and financing-related costs and expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 were $14.4 million, including $11.2 million related to expired commitments associated with the financings and $3.2 million of Real Alloy Acquisition transaction costs and expenses. Provision for income taxes At the end of each reporting period, Signature makes an estimate of its annual effective income tax rate. The estimate used for the three months ended March 31, 2015 may change in subsequent periods. Income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was $7.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 differed from the federal statutory rate applied to earnings and losses before income taxes primarily as a result of the mix of earnings and losses and tax rates between tax jurisdictions and valuation allowances. Signature has valuation allowances recorded to reduce certain deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. The valuation allowances relate to the potential inability to realize our deferred tax assets associated with NOLs in the United States and certain other foreign jurisdictions. Signature intends to maintain its valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support their reversal. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations presents the financial condition and results of operations of our former businesses, specifically, NABCO and certain of Fremonts former operations. Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes increased $22.8 million to $24.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The earnings of discontinued operations, net of income taxes in 2015 primarily represents the $39.8 million gain on sale of NABCO, while the earnings in 2014 primarily represent NABCOs operating results. 36 FINANCIAL CONDITION The following table presents selected components of the Companys condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014: March 31, December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2015 2014 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 28.6 $ 62.0 Trade accounts receivable, net 170.7 Inventories 136.1 Deferred income taxes 5.1 Other current assets 9.6 1.0 Current assets of discontinued operations 0.1 18.0 Total current assets 345.1 86.1 Debt and equity offering costs 14.5 Property, plant and equipment 316.4 0.1 Intangible assets, net 21.6 0.1 Goodwill 102.3 Deferred income taxes 3.0 Other noncurrent assets 2.9 1.1 Noncurrent assets of discontinued operations 20.0 TOTAL ASSETS $ 791.3 $ 121.9 LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Current liabilities: Trade payables $ 116.2 $ Accrued liabilities 37.7 6.2 Long-term debt due within one year 1.5 Other current liabilities 62.4 0.9 Current liabilities of discontinued operations 0.3 8.1 Total current liabilities 218.1 15.2 Accrued pension benefits 44.5 Environmental liabilities 18.4 Long-term debt, net 323.0 Common stock warrant liability 4.9 5.6 Other noncurrent liabilities 11.4 0.3 Noncurrent liabilities of discontinued operations 5.3 15.2 TOTAL LIABILITIES 625.6 36.3 Redeemable preferred stock 19.8 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 145.9 85.6 TOTAL LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 791.3 $ 121.9 General As a result of the transformation of our business in the first quarter of 2015 from the Real Alloy Acquisition and the NABCO Sale, historical comparisons of our financial condition are limited in value and we have elected not to make any comparisons that management deems could be misleading. As discussed further below, total assets increased $669.4 million, or 549%, to $791.3 million as of March 31, 2015, from $121.9 million as of December 31, 2014; total liabilities increased $589.3 million, or 1,623%, to $625.6 million as of March 31, 2015, from $36.3 million as of December 31, 2014; and total stockholders equity increased to $145.9 million as of March 31, 2015, from $85.6 million as of December 31, 2014. 37 Changes in stockholders equity reflect net earnings during the period, increased by equity issuances share-based compensation expense. See the Note 7 Stockholders Equity and Noncontrolling Interest in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for more details on changes in stockholders equity. The following tables present the assets and liabilities of our operating segments as of March 31, 2015. (Dollars in millions) RANA RAEU Segment Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3.3 $ 6.1 Trade accounts receivable, net 95.7 74.9 Inventories 88.6 47.5 Other current assets 3.4 0.3 Total current assets 191.0 128.8 Property, plant and equipment, net 210.9 105.4 Intangible assets, net 20.5 1.0 Other noncurrent assets 0.7 1.1 Total segment assets $ 423.1 $ 236.3 Segment Liabilities Current liabilities: Trade payables $ 63.8 $ 50.8 Accrued liabilities 22.2 11.1 Long-term debt due within one year 0.2 1.3 Other current liabilities 39.5 20.7 Total current liabilities 125.7 83.9 Accrued pension benefits 44.5 Environmental liabilities 18.4 Long-term debt, net 239.7 84.8 Other noncurrent liabilities 8.6 3.1 Total segment liabilities $ 392.4 $ 216.3 (Dollars in millions) Assets: RANA $ 423.1 RAEU 236.3 Unallocated 128.9 Total consolidated assets $ 791.3 Liabilities: RANA $ 392.4 RAEU 216.3 Unallocated 16.9 Total consolidated liabilities $ 625.6 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents maintained at RANA and RAEU are generally for working capital needs and general corporate purposes, including debt service payments. Cash at Corporate and Other decreased $22.8 million from December 31, 2014, to $19.2 million as of March 31, 2015, primarily as a result of capital contributions to Real Alloy to fund a portion of the Real Alloy Acquisition. Trade accounts receivable, net Trade accounts receivable, net was $170.7 million as of March 31, 2015, which was in line with managements expectations given seasonality and commercial activity. Inventories Inventories were $136.1 million as of March 31, 2015, which was in line with managements expectations. 38 Debt and equity offering costs The debt and equity offering costs of $14.5 million at December 31, 2014 have been expensed in the three months ended March 31, 2015 in the case of commitment fees of $10.6 million associated with backstop and bridge financing agreements arranged, but not used, to fund the Real Alloy Acquisition; while $3.0 million of costs associated with the Senior Secured Notes and Asset-Based Facility have been included as a reduction of the associated debt; and $0.9 million in equity costs associated with the Rights Offering have been included as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Property, plant and equipment, net Property, plant and equipment, net was $316.4 million as of March 31, 2015, and reflects the preliminary purchase accounting adjustments to estimated fair value at the acquisition date, offset by scheduled depreciation and amortization during the three months ended March 31, 2015. Other assets Other assets increased $10.4 million to $12.5 million as March 31, 2015, from $2.1 million as of December 31, 2014, primarily due to the Real Alloy Acquisition. Goodwill and intangible assets, net Intangible assets, net are comprised primarily of customer relationships and increased $21.5 million to $21.6 million as of March 31, 2015, from $0.1 million as of December 31, 2014, primarily as a result of the preliminary estimate of the fair values associated with the Real Alloy Acquisition, offset by scheduled amortization. As of March 31, 2015, the goodwill from the Real Alloy Acquisition is preliminary and has not been allocated to the reporting units. Trade payables Trade payables increased to $116.2 million as of March 31, 2015, primarily due to the Real Alloy Acquisition. Accrued liabilities Accrued liabilities increased $31.5 million to $37.7 million as of March 31, 2015, from $6.2 million as of December 31, 2014. The increase is primarily related the Real Alloy Acquisition offset by the payment of accrued costs and expenses associated with the Real Alloy Acquisition. Accrued pension benefits and environmental liabilities Accrued pension benefits and environmental liabilities were $44.5 million and $21.8 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2015 and were assumed as part of the Real Alloy Acquisition. Long-term debt Long-term debt increased to $324.5 million as of March 31, 2015, from zero as of December 31, 2014 as a result of the debt-related Financings to fund the Real Alloy Acquisition. See Note 5 Debt, Other Financing Arrangements and Redeemable Preferred Stock in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included in Part 1, Item 1 of this Report for additional information about our long-term debt. The current portion of long-term debt is related to capital leases. Common stock warrant liability Common stock warrant liability decreased $0.7 million to $4.9 million as of March 31, 2015, from $5.6 million as of December 31, 2014. The $0.7 million change in fair value of common stock warrant liability during the three months ended March 31, 2015 is attributable to a decrease in the exercise price of the Warrants to $5.64, as a result of the Rights Offering in February 2015, offset by a decrease in the underlying market price of our common stock. See Note 6 Common Stock Warrant Liability in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for more information about the Warrants. 39 Discontinued Operations Assets of discontinued operations decreased to $0.1 million as of March 31, 2015, from $38.0 million as of December 31, 2014. Liabilities of discontinued operations decreased to $5.6 million as of March 31, 2015, from $23.3 million as of December 31, 2014. The decrease in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations is the result of the sale of NABCO in January 2015. Following the sale of NABCO, there are nominal assets in discontinued operations and the only significant liabilities are the repurchase reserve, discussed further below. Repurchase reserve The repurchase reserve decreased $0.2 million to $5.3 million as of March 31, 2015, from $5.5 million as of December 31, 2014. There were no settlements or new claims received during the three months ended March 31, 2015, and we received no communication on our existing claims, which continued to age as described below. Accordingly, our estimated exposure has fallen and our reserve has likewise been reduced. While management believes the $5.3 million repurchase reserve is sufficient as of March 31, 2015, the reserve is subjective and is based on managements current expectations utilizing facts currently known to management. Changing or new facts and circumstances could cause us to increase the repurchase reserve in future periods or may cause the Company to experience losses in excess of the recorded repurchase reserve. Any material increase in, or change in the nature of, our repurchase claim activity and payout amounts, or changes in our ability to object to, defend or settle such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This liability represents estimated losses we may experience from repurchase claims, both known and unknown, based on claims of breaches of certain representations and warranties Fremont provided to counterparties that purchased residential real estate loans Fremont originated, predominantly from 2002 through 2007. In preparing its estimate for the repurchase reserve, management considers the loan products, vintage, aging of repurchase claims, prior investor settlements and actual loss experience. Total outstanding repurchase claims as of March 31, 2015 were $101.7 million. Of the outstanding repurchase claims, there has been no communication or other action from the claimants: for more than six years in the case of $65.8 million in claims, or 64.6% of total claims outstanding; for more than four years, but less than six years, in the case of $35.4 million in claims, or 34.8% of total claims outstanding; and for more than two years, but less than four years, in the case of $0.5 million in claims, or 0.6% of total claims outstanding. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary capital needs are for working capital obligations, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. Our primary existing sources of working capital are cash from operations and credit facilities, which we intend to supplement as needed by public and private capital market transactions. We assess liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating activities. Factors that could materially impact our liquidity include: cash flows generated from operating activities; adequacy of available lines of credit; acquisitions; and our ability to attract long-term capital, whether debt or equity, with satisfactory terms. We expect to review and consider possible acquisitions of new businesses and evaluate the retention and disposition of our existing operations. Further acquisitions, divestitures, investments and changes in capital structure are possible. Corporate Liquidity Our holding company assets are principally comprised of stock or membership interests of our subsidiaries, cash and cash equivalents, and receivables from our subsidiaries related to tax sharing agreements. Our principal sources of liquidity include current cash and cash equivalents, public and private capital markets transactions, funds received from subsidiaries from tax sharing payments and repayments of advances, and borrowings and dividends from subsidiaries, as well as dispositions of existing businesses. As of March 31, 2015, we have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3, with $213.5 million of securities available to be issued to use for existing business requirements and future acquisitions. In April 2015, Signature issued 843,000 shares of its common stock to holders of the Warrants as the final component of the Rights Offering launched in January 2015, and received $4.8 million. Our principal uses of liquidity, as of March 31, 2015, are the payment of operating costs of the holding company. 40 Assets of our operating subsidiary, SGGH, LLC, are principally comprised of stock or membership interests of its subsidiaries and cash and cash equivalents. Its current available liquidity is used to meet short-term cash requirements, which are principally the payment of corporate overhead expenses associated with the business and operations of SGGH, LLC, including discontinued operations. SGGH, LLCs principal source of liquidity is its current cash and cash equivalents, funds received from subsidiaries from tax sharing payments and repayments of advances, and borrowings and dividends from affiliates, as well as dispositions of existing businesses. Real Alloy Liquidity Based on our current and anticipated levels of operations and the conditions in our markets and industry, we believe that our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and availability under the Asset-Based and Factoring Facilities will enable us to meet our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service and other funding requirements for the foreseeable future. However, our ability to fund our working capital needs, debt payments and other obligations, and to comply with the financial covenants under the Senior Secured Notes and Asset-Based Facility, including borrowing base limitations under the Asset-Based Facility, depends on our future operating performance and cash flows and many factors outside of our control, including the costs of raw materials, the state of the overall industry and financial and economic conditions and other factors, including those described under Risk Factors in Part 1, Item 1A of the Annual Report. Any future acquisitions, joint ventures or other similar transactions will likely require additional capital and there can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. As of March 31, 2015, approximately $8.8 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We currently have no plans to repatriate these foreign earnings, which are expected to be permanently reinvested. If circumstances change and it becomes apparent that some or all of the permanently reinvested earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, an additional income tax charge may be necessary, however, we currently have the ability to remit all of the cash held by non-U.S. subsidiaries without incurring a U.S. tax liability. The following discussion provides a summary description of the significant components of our sources of liquidity and long-term debt. Cash Flows The following table summarizes net cash provided (used) by operating, investing and financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. The following presentation and discussion of cash flows reflects the combined cash flows from our continuing operations and discontinued operations. Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in millions) 2015 2014 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 24.2 $ (3.7 ) Net cash used in investing activities (419.5 ) (0.1 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 361.1 0.5 Cash flows from operating activities Operating activities provided $24.2 million of cash for the three months ended March 31, 2015, which was the result of net earnings of $6.8 million for the period, plus depreciation and amortization of $7.4 million, including the amortization of $3.7 million of the purchase accounting adjustment to inventories, and $41.8 million of changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of acquisition. These inflows were primarily offset by $24.3 million in earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, and $7.4 million deferred income tax benefit. Cash flows used in operating activities were $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, primarily related to the activities of NABCO classified within discontinued operations. Cash flows from investing activities Cash flows used by investing activities were $419.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and included $491.0 million to acquire Real Alloy, partially offset by $74.1 million proceeds from the sale of NABCO. Cash flows used by investing activities were $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 were related to capital expenditures. Cash flows from financing activities Cash flows provided by financing activities were $361.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015, which included $290.1 million of net proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Secured Notes, net debt issuance costs, proceeds from the Asset-Based Facility of 41 $57.1 million and $51.2 million of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock. These fundings were offset by the repayment of NABCO debt totaling $14.3 million and $24.0 million repayment on the Asset-Based Facility. Cash flows provided by financing activities were $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, primarily from the advances on the NABCO line of credit within discontinued operations for seasonal operating needs. Description of Indebtedness Senior Secured Notes On January 8, 2015, Real Alloy (Issuer), as successor to SGH Escrow, completed a private placement of $305.0 million aggregate principal of Senior Secured Notes to qualified institutional purchasers in accordance with Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act at a price of 97.206% of the principal amount thereof. The Senior Secured Notes were issued pursuant to the Indenture between Real Alloy, Real Alloy Parent, and Wilmington, as trustee and notes collateral trustee. The Senior Secured Notes and related guarantees are secured by first priority security interests in the fixed assets of Issuer, Real Alloy Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined in the Pledge and Security Agreement) and by second priority security interests in certain other collateral of Issuer, Real Alloy Parent and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Asset-Based Facility On February 27, 2015, a wholly owned subsidiary of Real Alloy and an affiliate of Real Alloy entered into the $110.0 million Asset-Based Facility. The Asset-Based Facility is secured by a first priority lien on Real Alloys wholly owned domestic subsidiarys and, to the extent no adverse tax impact would be incurred, foreign subsidiaries: accounts receivable, inventory, instruments representing receivables, guarantees and other credit enhancements related to receivables, and bank accounts into which receivables are deposited, among other related assets. The Asset-Based Facility is also secured by a second priority lien on the assets that secure the Senior Secured Notes. The borrowing base under the Asset-Based Facility is determined based on eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory. As of March 31, 2015, we estimate that the borrowing base would have supported borrowings of $105.5 million. After giving effect to outstanding borrowings, Real Alloy had $74.6 million available for borrowing under the Asset-Based Facility as of March 31, 2015. Capital Leases As part of the Real Alloy Acquisition, existing capital leases of the Real Alloy business were assumed. At March 31, 2015, $1.5 million is due within the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations as of March 31, 2015 are summarized by contractual maturity in the following table: Contractual Obligations - Payments Due By Period (Dollars in thousands) Less Than One Year One to Three Years Three to Five Years More Than Five Years Total Senior Secured Notes $ $ $ 305.0 $ $ 305.0 Asset-Based Facility 35.4 35.4 Capital leases 1.5 2.5 4.0 Redeemable preferred stock 25.1 25.1 $ 1.5 $ 2.5 $ 340.4 $ 25.1 $ 369.5 Non-GAAP Financial Measures A non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the balance sheets, statements of operations, or statements of cash flows; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measures so calculated and presented. We report our financial results in accordance with GAAP; however, our management believes that certain non-GAAP performance measures, which we use in managing our businesses, may provide investors with additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior periods. Adjusted EBITDA is an example of a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe provides investors and other users of our financial information with useful information. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as a performance metric and believes this measure provides additional information commonly used by holders of our common stock, as well as the holders of the Senior Secured Notes and parties to the Asset-Based Facility with 42 respect to the ongoing performance of our underlying business activities, as well as our ability to meet our future debt service, capital expenditures and working capital needs. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is a component of certain covenants under the Indenture governing the Senior Secured Notes. Our Adjusted EBITDA calculations represent net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, unrealized gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, share-based compensation expense, charges and expenses related to acquisitions, and certain other gains and losses. Adjusted EBITDA as we use it may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA by eliminating the impact of a number of items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating performance and certain other items. You are encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons we consider it appropriate for supplemental analysis. However, Adjusted EBITDA is not a financial measurement calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, and when analyzing our operating performance, investors should use Adjusted EBITDA in addition to, and not as an alternative for, net earnings, operating income or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or in addition to, and not as an alternative for, cash flows from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and it should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for, or superior to, our measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include: does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital needs; does not reflect interest expense or cash requirements necessary to service interest and/or principal payments under the Senior Secured Notes or Asset-Based Facility; does not reflect certain tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; Although depreciation and amortization are noncash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash requirements for such replacements; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate these measures differently and the degree of their usefulness as a comparative measure correspondingly decreases as the number of differences in computations increases. In addition, in evaluating Adjusted EBITDA it should be noted that in the future we may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in the below presentation. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or nonrecurring items. 43 The tables below provide reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to its most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with GAAP. Our reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net earnings and net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. (Dollars in millions) Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Adjusted EBITDA $ 7.9 Unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments (0.1 ) Depreciation and amortization 3.7 Share-based compensation expense 0.3 Impact of recording inventory at fair value through purchase accounting 3.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses of Corporate and Other 2.8 Other operating expense, net 0.3 Nonoperating expense (income): Interest expense 8.1 Change in fair value of common stock warrant liability (0.7 ) Acquisition and financing-related costs and expenses 14.4 Other, net 0.3 Total nonoperating expense 22.1 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes (24.9 ) Income tax benefit (7.4 ) Loss from continuing operations (17.5 ) Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 24.3 Net earnings 6.8 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (24.3 ) Depreciation and amortization 3.7 Deferred income tax benefit (7.4 ) Change in fair value of common stock warrant liability (0.7 ) Share-based compensation expense 0.3 Amortization of debt issuance costs 1.1 Amortization of the fair value adjustment of acquired inventory 3.7 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of acquisition 41.8 Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations (0.8 ) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 24.2 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions Factoring Facility On February 27, 2015, an indirect wholly owned German subsidiary of Real Alloy, entered into the 50 million Factoring Facility. The Factoring Facility provides for purchases by a financial institution of eligible receivables, which are subject to certain limitations and eligibility requirements to be determined in the reasonable discretion of such financial institution based on the relevant account debtor creditworthiness and reliability. The arrangement is a true-sale, where receivables are sold on a nonrecourse basis in the event of payment default by the relevant customer. Advances on eligible factored receivables are 90% of their face value. The Factoring Facility has a termination date of January 15, 2019. The German subsidiary of Real Alloy had 43.7 million of availability under the Factoring Facility as of March 31, 2015. Real Alloy has also entered into customer specific factoring arrangements in North America, as permitted under its debt agreements. Discontinued Operations Prior to 2007, Fremont securitized a portion of its residential real estate loans. Securitization is a process of transforming loans into securities that are sold to investors. The loans were first sold to a special purpose corporation, which then transferred them to a qualified special purpose entity (QSPE), which was a separate legal entity from Fremont. The QSPE, in turn, issued interest-bearing securities, commonly known as asset-backed securities, secured by the future cash flows to be derived from the securitized loans. The QSPE used the proceeds from the issuance of the securities to pay the purchase price of the securitized loans. 44 Securitizations of mortgage loans were used to provide an additional source of liquidity and were structured as sales. The special purpose entities to which the mortgage loans were transferred were QSPEs and, therefore, under previous accounting rules through 2009, were not subject to consolidation. The accounting standards were amended effective January 1, 2010 to eliminate the concept of QSPEs. We reevaluated these QSPEs, as well as all other potentially significant interests in other unconsolidated entities, to determine if we should include them in our consolidated financial statements. We determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of these variable interest entities and, therefore, do not consolidate the loan securitization trusts. The security investors and the QSPEs do not have any recourse against SGGH, LLC if the cash flows generated by the securitized loans are inadequate to service the securities issued by the QSPEs. At the close of each securitization, Fremont removed the carrying value of the loans securitized from its balance sheet and added the estimated fair value of the assets obtained in consideration for the loans, which generally included the cash received (net of transaction expenses), retained junior class securities (referred to as residual interests) and mortgage servicing rights, to its balance sheet. SGGH, LLC holds these residual interests, which are carried at zero in the consolidated balance sheets, and management does not anticipate receiving any distributions from these residual interests in the foreseeable future. We also have repurchase reserve liabilities related to sales of residential real estate loans by Fremonts former business that are subject to standard industry representations and warranties that may require SGGH, LLC to repurchase certain loans. Additional information concerning the repurchase reserve included in discontinued operations is included in Note 14 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report.