Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Item 7 also contains certain non-GAAP financial information included in Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures. OVERVIEW Signature is a diversified business and financial services enterprise with principal holdings in cash, financial assets, and controlling ownership interests in two operating subsidiaries, NABCO and Cosmed. We anticipate that we will continue to use our cash and other financial assets to grow the Company into a profitable enterprise by completing additional acquisitions of operating businesses, as well as expanding the Signature Special Situations financial services business unit, which is described herein. We seek to engage in acquisitions to acquire a controlling interest in middle market businesses that we expect will generate between $7.0 million and $25.0 million in annual EBITDA. We also will selectively review potential acquisition opportunities of larger businesses. We look to acquire businesses that have talented and experienced management teams, strong margins, defensible market positions and, in most instances, long-term growth potential. We regularly consider acquisitions of businesses that operate in unique 31 Table of Contents industries as well as businesses that we believe to be in transition or are otherwise misunderstood by the marketplace. Post-acquisition, we have and expect to continue to operate the businesses we acquire as autonomous subsidiaries. In addition to the connections that our management team has in the industry, we also have strong relationships with significant numbers of potential deal referral sources, including accountants, attorneys, business brokers, commercial and investment bankers, and other professionals, which generate substantial opportunities to assess middle market businesses that may be available for acquisition. Our strategy tends to emphasize non-auction, or proprietary deal flow sourced directly through our management teams established referral networks. See C. Business Strategy in Item 1 of this Annual Report for additional information related to our business acquisition strategy. Our Signature Special Situations business unit primarily acquires sub-performing and non-performing commercial and industrial loans, leases, and mortgages typically at a discount to unpaid principal balance. We may also originate secured debt financings to middle market companies for a variety of situations including to support another transaction such as an acquisition, recapitalization or restructuring. We also take positions in corporate bonds, trade claims, and other structured debt instruments, which may be performing, sub-performing or non-performing. We may also acquire specialized assets, such as product or brand licenses, royalty streams, or subscriber bases. See D. Operating Segments in Item 1 of this Annual Report for additional information related to our Signature Special Situations business unit. Our operations include a discontinued operations segment, where we hold and are managing the Legacy Assets and Liabilities to maximize cash recoveries and limit our costs and exposures to protect the value for our shareholders. The net cash flows from our discontinued operations segment are expected to be redeployed into our continuing operations segment over time. See D. Operating Segments in Item 1 of this Annual Report for additional information related to our discontinued operations segment. We have been and continue to reposition our business after a two year bankruptcy reorganization process, from which we emerged in June 2010. During the bankruptcy period, Fremonts operations focused on maximizing the value of its assets, which included the liquidation and sale of certain assets, and minimizing its costs and liabilities through the negotiation and resolution of litigation, loan repurchase claims and other claims. In particular, Fremont managed its remaining residential and commercial loan portfolios, commercial real estate investments and other assets. Accordingly, the Companys results of operations include reorganization items, which are direct costs incurred by Fremont operating as a debtor-in-possession during bankruptcy proceedings. These items include professional fees, trustee fees and other expenses directly related to the bankruptcy filing, and gains or losses resulting from activities of the reorganization process offset by interest earned on cash accumulated while in bankruptcy. In 2011, continuing operations included the results of operations from NABCO and Cosmed, which provided combined revenues and other income (expense) of $15.2 million and operating expenses of $15.9 million, including $1.5 million of intangible asset amortization. We acquired these businesses in 2011; and, therefore, no comparable revenues and expenses are included in the 2010 results from continuing operations. OPERATING SEGMENTS The presentation set forth below in this Managements Discussion and Analysis and in the Companys consolidated financial statements present the Companys financial condition and results of operations by operating segment. Until the Legacy Assets and Liabilities are monetized, whether through sale, collection, settlement or other means, and we resolve any liabilities associated thereto, we will report our results of operations under both continuing and discontinued segment classifications. All of our activities related to our operating subsidiaries and our growth strategies, as well as ongoing, general corporate functions are included in the continuing operating segment. All of our activities related to the Legacy Assets and Liabilities, as well as the prosecution and defense of litigation matters related to Fremonts prior business activities are included in the discontinued operating segment. Continuing Operations : At December 31, 2011, Signatures continuing operations had approximately $101.6 million in assets, or 71% of our total assets. Our continuing operations consists of three operating units, NABCO, Cosmed and Signature Special Situations, as discussed below. As we continue to implement our business plan, we expect the percentage of assets in our continuing operations to grow. NABCO The largest operating unit by revenue, NABCO is a wholly owned subsidiary whose results of operations are consolidated into Signatures as of July 29, 2011, the date of acquisition. Headquartered in Burbank, California, NABCO is one of the largest independent suppliers of circuit breakers in the country. Circuit breakers are critical safety devices used in virtually all residential, commercial and industrial structures and many large electrical power systems. Circuit breakers automatically shut off an electrical circuit when the flow of electricity increases above a safe level so that potentially serious damage, such as that caused by a fire, can be averted. Accordingly, when a circuit breaker is damaged, as a critical component for the overall electrical system, it must be replaced immediately. NABCOs niche is focused on this replacement market, particularly for commercial and industrial circuit breakers where replacement time is extremely important, but it also supplies residential circuit breakers in order to provide its customers with a single source solution for their circuit breaker needs. The electrical power system in the United States is characterized by an aging infrastructure and largely reflects technology developed in the 1950s or earlier. According to the United States Department of Energy, it is estimated that 60% of circuit breakers in operation are more than 30 years old. 32 Table of Contents NABCO operates from five warehouse locations across the country. This national presence allows NABCO to service a broad section of its customer base with next day ground shipping, which provides a competitive advantage for the mission critical components it supplies. NABCO sells primarily to wholesale electrical distributors as opposed to end users like electricians and do-it-yourself business owners and homeowners. In 2011, NABCO served approximately 600 customers and shipped approximately 5,000 SKUs to over 3,000 customer locations nationwide. Its customer base includes many of the largest wholesale electrical distribution companies in the nation, who tend to carry a limited amount of circuit breaker inventory and use NABCO, and other circuit breaker distribution specialists like NABCO, as a just-in-time supplier. By providing industry leading customer service, maintaining an extensive inventory, and offering same day shipping, NABCO has become a preferred supplier for most of its large wholesale electrical distributor customers. Circuit breakers are manufacturer specific and not interchangeable, so product availability in the replacement niche is very important. Accordingly, NABCO maintains a significant depth of certified, new product inventory from all the major manufacturers and also carriers a number of products that have been discontinued by the manufacturer and are no longer widely available. As a result, NABCO does not manage its operations in terms of inventory turns or other traditional operating metrics based on inventory levels. NABCOs inventory levels have the potential to increase in a declining sales environment if valuable purchase opportunities present themselves as there is minimal risk of obsolescence for these products. Other business factors pertaining to NABCO include: it is a seasonal business with higher sales volume occurring during the summer months due to weather conditions driving increased electrical usage; it operates in a highly fragmented market with hundreds of competitors, although few have NABCOs depth of inventory or national presence; and it does not sell used circuit breakers, nor does it refurbish circuit breakers or provide any other type of service operations. Cosmed As measured by revenue, Cosmed is the smallest operating unit in our continuing operations segment. Cosmed is a subsidiary we formed to consummate the acquisition of certain assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of Costru in February 2011, for total purchase consideration of $2.6 million (refer to Note 4 Business Combinations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report). Cosmed does business under the trade name Cosmedicine TM and owns the intellectual property and proprietary product formulations for a line of anti-aging skin care products. The Cosmedicine TM formulations are proven effective at reducing dryness, fine lines and wrinkles, skin discolorations, and multiple forms of acne. Cosmed markets and sells its skin care line in specialty retail stores across the country. Cosmeds products are manufactured in an outsourced FDA and OTC approved laboratory. Historically, the Cosmedicine TM product line was only available through high-end retailers and specialty beauty boutiques. Beginning in 2009, Costru management attempted to reposition the business and grow sales by marketing its product line through the major mass market retailers of health and beauty products. Although Cosmeds management continued having success in rolling-out its products into the mass merchandising channel, the products did not achieve sufficient sales volume to generate re-orders. Accordingly, Cosmed is no longer focusing on selling its products through mass merchants. Cosmedicine TM continues to be sold through a number of specialty health and beauty accounts including Ulta and Nordstrom as well as through certain specialty internet channels such as Dermstore and Hautelook. Cosmed is in the process of re-focusing the Cosmedicine TM brand, by launching it in private label and custom original equipment manufacturer relationships to leverage its significant intellectual property and unique formulations. Additionally, Cosmed is seeking strategic partnerships in alternative sales platforms including, but not limited to, leading direct response and network marketing conglomerates. Signature owns 92% of the outstanding common stock of Cosmed, with the remaining 8% noncontrolling interest held by the former owners of Costru. 33 Table of Contents Signature Special Situations Our Signature Special Situations operation primarily acquires sub-performing and non-performing commercial and industrial loans, leases, and mortgages typically at a discount to unpaid principal balance, or par. We may also originate secured debt financings to middle market companies for a variety of situations including to support another transaction such as an acquisition, recapitalization or restructuring and take positions in corporate bonds, trade claims, and other structured debt instruments, which may be performing, sub-performing or non-performing. We also seek to acquire specialized assets, such as product or brand licenses, royalty streams, or subscriber bases. The objective of this operation is to generate high risk adjusted returns in the form of interest income, fees, recovery of discounted principal balances, or market value appreciation, while maintaining an intense focus on managing downside risks and exposure. In some instances, we may also receive equity securities in the form of convertible debt, preferred and convertible preferred stock, options or warrants, where our returns would come in the form of gains associated with such equity securities. In 2011, Signature Special Situations purchased $14.1 million in par value corporate bonds and senior secured debt for $9.0 million. Annual contractual interest rates on the corporate bonds range from 11.25% to 13.00%. The acquired senior secured debt has annual contractual interest rates of 5.75% and, as a result of the discounted purchase price, yielded an overall return of 13.95% during 2011. As of December 31, 2011, this segment had income generating assets with a carrying value of $8.7 million. Discontinued Operations : At December 31, 2011, our discontinued operations had approximately $41.4 million in assets, or 29% of the Companys total assets. The assets of our discontinued operations consisted primarily of an $86.5 million portfolio of subprime residential real estate loans, carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value of approximately $32.7 million and $4.0 million in REO, carried at net realizable value, which is the result of foreclosure actions associated with the subprime residential real estate loan portfolio. Under our business strategy, we seek to maximize the value of the assets of our discontinued operations and expect to redeploy the proceeds in our continuing operations. During the year, we converted approximately $12.0 million of discontinued operations assets to cash primarily through the sale of a portion of our non-performing subprime residential real estate loan portfolio; sales of REO; and sales of commercial real estate investments. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized $4.2 million of interest income and $5.6 million of principal payments from our subprime residential real estate loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, we are actively marketing our subprime residential real estate loans. Our performing subprime residential real estate loans, which have a UPB of approximately $53.0 million at December 31, 2011, and have a weighted average seasoning of 65 months. Of our $4.2 million in interest income during the year, approximately 82.0% was associated with our performing loans, which equates to a current yield of approximately 14.0% based upon the average carrying value of our performing loan portfolio. 34 Table of Contents During 2011, we sold 50 REO properties and generated net cash recoveries, after fees and expenses, of approximately $5.0 million, resulting in net gains of $0.3 million. We believe our ongoing efforts to monetize REO properties through individual sales is economically superior to other alternatives, such as a bulk sales or joint venture arrangements and results in superior recoveries for the Company. Additionally, we believe our analysis adds value to our REO properties prior to sale by identifying cost effective repair efforts to damaged REO properties where we determine that the return on the investment for such repairs is justified, as well as through insurance claims on damaged REO properties, when appropriate. We believe that our hands-on approach in evaluating each REO property is the appropriate value maximizing strategy at this time. Our residential real estate loans and REO are managed by a third-party, whose efforts are overseen by our staff. The largest liability in our discontinued operations is our residential loan repurchase reserve. At December 31, 2011, the repurchase reserve liability was $8.5 million. This liability represents estimated losses we may experience from repurchase claims, both known and unknown, based on the representations and warranties provided by FIL, Fremonts California industrial bank subsidiary, to counterparties that had purchased the residential real estate loans FIL predominantly originated from 2002 through 2007. Management estimates the likely range of potential loan repurchase liability based on an number of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of such claims given when the loan was originated; the quality of the counterparties documentation supporting such claims; the number and involvement of cross defendants, if any, related to such claims; and a time and expense estimate if a claim were to result in litigation. Only $1.8 million in repurchase claims were received during the year ended December 31, 2011, of which, $0.9 million were subject to a pre-existing settlement agreement, resulting in an increase in active claims of only $0.9 million. Our total outstanding repurchase claims at December 31, 2011 were approximately $101.7 million. Of our outstanding repurchase claims, there has been no communication or other action from the claimants: for more than 36 months in the case of approximately $65.3 million in claims, or 64.2% of total claims outstanding; for more than 24 months, but less than 36 months, in the case of approximately $6.4 million in claims, or 6.3% of total claims outstanding; for more than 12 months, but less than 24 months, in the case of approximately $29.1 million in claims, or 28.6% of total claims outstanding. See Note 22 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 and Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this Annual Report for more information about the Companys repurchase reserve liability. Discontinued operations also include expenses and liabilities associated with various litigation matters that pertain to Fremonts prior business activities. As of December 31, 2011, the Company is involved in sixty-two defensive cases involving individual home borrowers, the majority of whom are fighting to hold off foreclosure against the loan servicer and current mortgage owner, and where Fremont has been named in the matter because it was the originator of the mortgage. We are also involved in five defensive cases involving Fremonts securitization transactions and three defensive cases involving former Fremont executives seeking severance claims. See Legal Proceedings included in Item 3 of this Annual Report for more information about the material legal proceedings in which we are involved. Although we were successful in resolving eighty-one lawsuits during the year ended December 31, 2011, we were served with fifty-six new matters. Signature is also a plaintiff in eight cases related to mortgage fraud, which are not described in Item 3 of this Annual Report, whose activities account for a significant portion of the Companys professional expenses, included in the discontinued operations statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. Corporate and other Corporate and other costs primarily represent expenses related to those administrative, financial and human resource activities that are not allocated to operations and are excluded from segment results of operations. These costs are not allocated to the segments, as management excludes such costs when assessing the performance of the segments. Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting . As of December 31, 2011, the Companys internal control over financial reporting was not effective and it was determined that the material weakness identified as of December 31, 2010 had not 35 Table of Contents been fully remediated. The Company is currently working to remediate the material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. See Item 9A,