Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements in this report, including, without limitation, matters discussed in this Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, related notes, and other detailed information included in Signature Group Holdings, Inc.s (Signature, formerly Fremont General Corporation (Fremont), or Company, we, us or our) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (the Annual Report). We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements. Certain of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, estimates, assumes, may, should, will, likely, could or other similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from future results, performance or achievements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, intentions and expectations. These statements are not guarantees or indicative of future performance. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those factors, risks and uncertainties described in the Annual Report and in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2012, under the caption Risk Factors and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All forward-looking statements set forth herein are qualified by these cautionary statements and are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update or revise the information contained herein, including without limitation any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, or otherwise, unless otherwise required by law. OVERVIEW Signature is a diversified business and financial services enterprise with principal holdings in cash, financial assets, and controlling ownership interests in two operating subsidiaries, North American Breaker Co., LLC (NABCO) and Cosmed, Inc. (Cosmed). We anticipate that we will continue to use our cash and other financial assets to grow the Company into a profitable enterprise by completing additional acquisitions of operating businesses, as well as expanding the Signature Special Situations financial services business unit, which is described herein. We seek to engage in acquisitions to acquire controlling interests in middle market businesses that we expect will generate between $7.0 million and $25.0 million in annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), but will also selectively review potential acquisition opportunities of larger businesses. We look to acquire businesses that have talented and experienced management teams, strong margins, defensible market positions and, in most instances, long-term growth potential. We regularly consider acquisitions of businesses that operate in unique industries as well as businesses that we believe to be in transition or are otherwise misunderstood by the marketplace. Post-acquisition, we have and expect to continue to operate the businesses we acquire as autonomous subsidiaries. In addition to the connections that our management team has in the financial industry, we also have strong relationships with significant numbers of potential deal referral sources, including accountants, attorneys, business brokers, commercial and investment bankers, and other professionals, which generate substantial opportunities to assess middle market businesses that may be available for acquisition. Our strategy tends to emphasize non-auction, or proprietary deal flow sourced directly through our management teams established referral networks. Our Signature Special Situations business unit primarily acquires sub-performing and non-performing commercial and industrial loans, leases, and mortgages typically at a discount to unpaid principal balance (UPB). We may also originate secured debt financings to middle market companies for a variety of situations, including supporting another transaction such as an acquisition, recapitalization or restructuring. We also take positions in corporate bonds, trade claims, and other structured debt instruments, which may be performing, sub-performing or non-performing. We may also acquire specialized assets, such as product or brand licenses, royalty streams, or subscriber bases. The largest asset in this segment is a portfolio of residential real estate loans. Our operations include a discontinued operations segment, where we hold and are managing certain assets and liabilities related to the former businesses of the Company, then known as Fremont, including Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock, subprime residential real estate loans, residential real estate, commercial real estate investments, litigation claims under fidelity insurance bonds, and contingent liabilities for litigation and repurchase claims. Assets and liabilities are being managed to maximize cash recoveries and limit costs and exposures to the Company. Operating segments The presentation set forth below in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in the Companys unaudited consolidated financial statements present the Companys financial condition and results of operations by operating segment. We report our results of operations under both continuing and discontinued operations segment classifications. All of our activities related to our operating subsidiaries and our growth strategies, as well as ongoing and general corporate functions are 29 Table of Contents included in the continuing operations segment. Discontinued operations presents the financial condition and results of operations of the assets, liabilities, businesses and operations that were sold or discontinued by Fremont prior to the date of emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, excluding the loans reclassified to continuing operation in the second quarter of 2012, as discussed below in Signature Special Situations . Continuing Operations: At June 30, 2012, Signatures continuing operations had approximately $128.8 million in assets, or 97% of our total assets. Our continuing operations consist of three operating units, NABCO, Cosmed and Signature Special Situations, as discussed below. NABCO The largest operating unit by revenue, NABCO is a wholly owned subsidiary whose results of operations have been consolidated into Signatures since July 29, 2011, the date of acquisition. Headquartered in Burbank, California, NABCO is one of the largest independent suppliers of circuit breakers in the country. Circuit breakers are critical safety devices used in virtually all residential, commercial and industrial structures and many large electrical power systems. Circuit breakers automatically shut off an electrical circuit when the flow of electricity increases above a safe level so that potentially serious damage, such as that caused by fire, can be averted. Accordingly, when a circuit breaker is damaged, as a critical component for the overall electrical system, it must be replaced immediately. NABCOs niche is focused on this replacement market, particularly for commercial and industrial circuit breakers where replacement time is extremely important, but it also supplies residential circuit breakers in order to provide its customers with a single source solution for their circuit breaker needs. In furtherance of its strategy to be a single source supplier for its customers, NABCO began carrying a new product line, fusible panel switches, during the first quarter of 2012. NABCO operates from five warehouse locations across the country. This national presence allows NABCO to service a broad section of its customer base with next day ground shipping, providing a competitive advantage for the mission critical components it supplies. NABCO sells primarily to wholesale electrical distributors as opposed to end users, like electricians and do-it-yourself business owners and homeowners. In 2011, NABCO served approximately 600 customers and shipped approximately 5,000 SKUs to over 3,000 customer locations nationwide. Its customer base includes many of the largest wholesale electrical distribution companies in the nation, who tend to carry a limited amount of circuit breaker inventory and use NABCO, and other circuit breaker distribution specialists like NABCO, as a just-in-time supplier. By providing industry-leading customer service, maintaining an extensive inventory and offering same day shipping, NABCO has become a preferred supplier for most of its large wholesale electrical distributor customers. The electrical power system in the United States is characterized by an aging infrastructure and largely reflects technology developed in the 1950s or earlier. According to the United States Department of Energy, it is estimated that 60% of circuit breakers in operation are more than thirty years old. Circuit breakers are manufacturer specific and not interchangeable, so product availability in the replacement niche is very important. Accordingly, NABCO maintains a significant depth of certified, new product inventory from all the major manufacturers and also carries a number of products that have been discontinued by the manufacturer and are no longer widely available. As a result, NABCO does not manage its operations in terms of inventory turns or other traditional operating metrics based on inventory levels. NABCOs inventory levels have the potential to increase in a declining sales environment if valuable purchase opportunities present themselves as there is minimal risk of obsolescence for these products. Other business factors pertaining to NABCO include: the business is seasonal with higher sales volume occurring during the summer months due to weather conditions driving increased electrical usage; the business operates in a highly fragmented market with hundreds of competitors, although few have NABCOs depth of inventory or national presence; and the business does not sell used circuit breakers, nor does it refurbish circuit breakers or provide any other type of service operations. Cosmed As measured by revenue, Cosmed is the smallest operating unit in our continuing operations segment. Cosmed is a subsidiary we formed to consummate the acquisition of certain assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of Costru Company, LLC (Costru) in February 2011. Cosmed does business under the trade name Cosmedicine TM and owns the intellectual property and proprietary product formulations for a line of anti-aging skin care products. The Cosmedicine TM formulations are proven effective at reducing dryness, fine lines and wrinkles, skin discolorations, and multiple forms of acne. Cosmeds products are manufactured in an outsourced U.S. Federal Drug Administration and over-the-counter approved laboratory. Historically, the Cosmedicine product line was only available through high-end retailers and specialty beauty boutiques. Beginning in 2009, Costru management attempted to reposition the business and grow sales by marketing its product line through the major mass market retailers of health and beauty products. Although Cosmeds management continued having success in rolling-out its products into the mass merchandising channel, the products did not achieve sufficient sales volume to generate re-orders. Accordingly, Cosmed is no longer selling its products through mass merchants. Cosmedicine continues to be sold through a number of specialty health and beauty outlets, as well as through certain specialty 30 Table of Contents internet channels. Cosmed is in the process of re-focusing the Cosmedicine brand, and is considering private label and custom original equipment manufacturer arrangements to leverage its significant intellectual property and unique formulations. Additionally, Cosmed is seeking strategic partnerships in alternative sales platforms including, but not limited to, leading direct response and network marketing conglomerates. Signature owns 92% of the outstanding common stock of Cosmed, with the remaining 8% noncontrolling interest held by the former owners of Costru. Signature Special Situations Our Signature Special Situations business unit primarily acquires sub-performing and non-performing commercial and industrial loans, leases, and mortgages typically at a discount to UPB. We may also originate secured debt financings to middle market companies for a variety of situations including to support another transaction such as an acquisition, recapitalization or restructuring and take positions in corporate bonds, trade claims, and other structured debt instruments, which may be performing, sub-performing or non-performing. We also seek to acquire specialized assets, such as product or brand licenses, royalty streams, or subscriber bases. The objective of this operation is to generate high risk-adjusted returns in the form of interest income, fees, recovery of discounted principal balances, or market value appreciation, while maintaining an intense focus on managing downside risks and exposure. In some instances, we may also receive equity securities in the form of convertible debt, preferred or convertible preferred stock, and options or warrants, where our returns will come in the form of appreciation gains associated with such equity securities. After actively marketing and closing the sale of $27.6 million of our non-performing residential real estate loans in the first quarter, we determined that the economics of a hold and retain strategy were advantageous as compared to the secondary market bids received for the performing (less than sixty days past due) residential real estate loan portfolio. As a result of managements analysis and the Companys current liquidity position, management intends to hold these loans for investment for the foreseeable future. With the change of intention, management reclassified $23.0 million of loans, with an aggregate UPB of $46.9 million, from discontinued operations to Signature Special Situations in continuing operations, effective April 1, 2012. Corporate and other Corporate and other costs primarily represent expenses related to those administrative, financial and human resource activities that are not allocated to operations and are excluded from segment results of operations. These costs are not allocated to the segments, as management excludes such costs when assessing the performance of the segments. Discontinued Operations: At June 30, 2012, our discontinued operations had approximately $4.2 million in assets, or 3% of our total assets, and $10.8 million of liabilities, or 15% of our total liabilities. Under our business strategy, we seek to maximize the value of the assets of our discontinued operations and expect to redeploy the proceeds in our continuing operations. During the six months ended June 30, 2012, we generated approximately $13.5 million of cash from discontinued operations primarily through the sale of $37.1 million of UPB of our sub-performing and non-performing subprime residential real estate loans, with a carrying value of $10.7 million, sales of $1.6 million of REO and the collection of a $1.9 million note receivable. The largest liability in our discontinued operations is our residential loan repurchase reserve. At June 30, 2012, the repurchase reserve liability was $8.0 million. This liability represents estimated losses we may experience from repurchase claims, both known and unknown, based on the representations and warranties provided by Fremont Investment & Loan (FIL), Fremonts former California industrial bank subsidiary, to counterparties that purchased the residential real estate loans FIL originated, predominantly from 2002 through 2007. Management estimates the likely range of potential loan repurchase liability based on an number of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of such claims given when the loan was originated; the quality of the counterparties documentation supporting such claims; the number and involvement of cross defendants, if any, related to such claims; and a time and expense estimate if a claim were to result in litigation. There were no repurchase claims received or settled during the six months ended June 30, 2012. The estimated reserve is based upon currently available information, is subject to known and unknown uncertainties using multiple assumptions requiring significant judgment. Actual results may vary significantly from the current estimate. Total outstanding repurchase claims at June 30, 2012 were approximately $101.7 million. Of the outstanding repurchase claims, there has been no communication or other action from the claimants: for more than thirty-six months in the case of approximately $70.3 million in claims, or 69.2% of total claims outstanding; for more than twenty-four months, but less than thirty-six months, in the case of approximately $3.1 million in claims, or 3.0% of total claims outstanding; and for more than twelve months, but less than twenty-four months, in the case of approximately $28.3 million in claims, or 27.8% of total claims outstanding. Discontinued operations also include expenses and liabilities associated with various litigation matters that pertain to Fremonts prior business activities. As of June 30, 2012, the Company was involved in seventy defensive cases involving individual home borrowers, the majority of whom are fighting to hold off foreclosure against the loan servicer and current mortgage owner, and where Fremont has been named in the matter because it was the originator of the mortgage. We are also involved in five defensive cases involving Fremonts securitization transactions and three defensive cases involving former Fremont executives seeking severance claims. 31 Table of Contents Signature is also a plaintiff in eight cases related to mortgage fraud, whose activities account for a significant portion of our professional expenses included in the statements of operations of discontinued operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012. Material weakness in internal control over financial reporting As of June 30, 2012, the Companys internal control over financial reporting was not effective and it was determined that the material weakness identified as of December 31, 2011 had not been remediated. The Company is currently working to remediate the material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. See Item 4,