Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Signature, formerly known as Fremont General Corporation, is an externally managed financial services company that seeks to become a diversified business enterprise that is intended to generate strong, risk-adjusted return on equity while protecting shareholder capital. We presently operate in two primary business lines: (i) Special Situation Lending and (ii) Strategic Acquisitions. Additionally, we maintain and are managing certain assets related to Fremonts former businesses, that we refer to as the Legacy Assets, which include a portfolio of subprime residential real estate mortgages, residential real estate, commercial real estate investments and litigation claims under fidelity insurance bonds. The Legacy Assets are being managed to maximize cash recoveries and value for our shareholders and will be redeployed into our long term business strategy over time. The Company also has significant federal and state NOLs, estimated to be approximately $882.7 million and $998.6 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The Company has established a full valuation allowance against its NOL in the consolidated balance sheets. After a nearly two year reorganization process, Fremont emerged from bankruptcy proceedings and filed Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation with the Office of the Secretary of the State for the State of Nevada on June 11, 2010, which, among other things, changed Fremonts name to Signature Group Holdings, Inc. Previously, on May 25, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court had entered an order, as amended, confirming Signature Group Holdings, LLCs Fourth Amended Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Fremont General Corporation, Joined by James McIntyre as Co-Plan Proponent, dated May 11, 2010, as amended. See B. Recent History in Item 1 of this Annual Report for additional information related to Fremonts bankruptcy proceedings and related events. Since the Effective Date, the business and operations of the Company have been under new management. Our business plan and strategic initiatives are based upon the business plan that was included in the Plan, which was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and was approved by 69.6% of the Companys then outstanding common shares, 88.7% of its then outstanding TOPrS, and a majority of all other impaired creditor classes . With the exception of the management of the Legacy Assets, we have no plans to operate in the banking or consumer mortgage lending businesses that Fremont and FIL previously conducted. Signature remains a financial services company and plans to continue providing financing for various commercial purposes. Our business is primarily funded by the asset base of our reorganized company. On the Effective Date, and pursuant to the Plan, the Company distributed approximately $280.8 million to Fremonts creditors. Additionally, pursuant to various settlement agreements related to residential loan repurchase liabilities, and with Bankruptcy Court approval, Fremont paid out an additional $28.3 million during the weeks leading up to the Effective Date. After factoring in these significant distributions, the Companys assets and shareholders equity at June 30, 2010 were approximately $157.8 million and $90.9 million, respectively. To manage our business affairs, we entered into an Interim Management Agreement dated June 11, 2010 with SCA. Presentation of Continuing Operations and Discontinued Operations . The presentation set forth below in this Managements Discussion and Analysis and in the Consolidated Financial Statements present the Companys financial condition and results of operations in two separate categories, which are continuing operations and discontinued operations. The continuing operations present the financial condition and results of operations for the assets, liabilities, businesses and operations that are consistent with Signatures current business strategy. The discontinued operations present the financial condition and results of operations for the assets, liabilities, businesses and ope rations that were sold or discontinued by Fremont and FIL prior to the Effective Date. See Note 20 Discontinued Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information about the Companys discontinued operations. Presentation of Financial Information Due to Fremonts Bankruptcy Proceedings . For the fiscal year 2009 and through June 11, 2010, the Companys financial results reflect the impact of filing a voluntary petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code in June 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Companys results of operations include reorganization items which are direct costs incurred by Fremont operating as a debtor-in-possession during bankruptcy proceedings up until the Effective Date and by Signature subsequent to the Effective Date. These items include professional fees, trustee fees and other expenses incurred directly related to the bankruptcy filing, gains or losses resulting from activities of the reorganization process and interest earned on cash accumulated while in bankruptcy. All liabilities incurred prior to the Petition Date were considered liabilities subject to compromise, unless they were fully secured by collateral. The liabilities that were subject to compromise include the Senior Notes, the Junior Subordinated Debentures, accrued interest payable, income taxes payable and other accounts payable and accrued expenses. These liabilities represent estimates of known or potential pre-petition claims that were resolved or expected to be resolved in connection with the Chapter 11 case. Liabilities of deferred compensation plans for SERP, SERP II and the Excess Benefit Plan is not considered a liability subject to compromise as this liability was fully secured by its deferred compensation plan assets. See Critical Accounting PoliciesAccounting for Reorganization below for additional information. 27 Table of Contents Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. As of December 31, 2010, the Company's internal control over financial reporting was not effective and it was determined that there was a material weakness. The Company is currently working to remediate the material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. See Item 9A,