Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we deem immaterial may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors Some of the material risks that we face include: If we fail to retain or grow our customer base, number of payment corridors, or scope of send and receive countries, our business and operating results will be harmed; We partner with third parties to support fulfillment of our service, including risk management, payment processing, customer support, and disbursement, which exposes us to risks outside our direct control; If we are not able to innovate, improve existing products, and develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our growth, business, operating results, financial condition and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected; Cyber-attacks, data security breaches, or other similar incidents could result in serious harm to our business, reputation and financial condition, including by triggering a breach of our agreements with significant partners that we rely on to deliver our services; We are subject to privacy laws across multiple jurisdictions which are highly complex, overlapping, frequently changing, and which create compliance challenges that may expose us to substantial costs, liabilities, or loss of customer trust. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws could harm our business; Use of our platform for illegal or fraudulent activities could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results; Our platform is susceptible to fraud, and our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be harmed as a result; Failure to comply with sanctions laws, anti-terrorist financing laws, anti-money laundering laws and similar laws associated with our activities outside of the United States, and anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences; We are exposed to the risk of loss or insolvency if our disbursement partners fail to disburse funds according to our instructions or were to become insolvent unexpectedly or funds are disbursed before customer funds are guaranteed to be sufficient; If there is any material change of service terms or loss of coverage in our payment processors and disbursement network, our business could be harmed; If our disbursement partners do not provide a positive recipient experience, our business would be harmed; We may fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting and may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results; If one or more of our counterparties, including financial institutions, aggregators, and local cash pick-up institutions where we have cash on deposit, or our lenders and potential hedging counterparties, default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses; and Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Business and Strategic Risks If we fail to retain or grow our customer base, number of payment corridors, or scope of send and receive countries, our business and operating results will be harmed. We must continually retain and grow our base of customers, number of payment corridors and the scope of our global networks to grow our business. Our ability to do so depends on the quality and successful execution of our business strategy, as well as factors outside our control, including the macroeconomic context, geopolitical forces, evolving consumer preferences, and regulatory costs and requirements in key jurisdictions. It also will depend on the quality and speed of competitor innovation and marketing and the reliability and quality of services provided by the third parties that we partner with to provide our integrated service. These areas are all complex and evolving regularly and any significant failure to anticipate and successfully manage these areas in relation to either traditional or emerging developed to developing corridors could significantly impair our ability to retain and grow our base of customers or the scope of our send and receive markets. If we are unable to retain and grow our base of customers or the scope of our send and receive markets, our business and operating results may be harmed. We partner with third parties to support fulfillment of our service, including risk management, payment processing, customer support, and disbursement, which exposes us to risks outside our direct control. We partner with a variety of third parties to fulfill our services. For example, we integrate third-party technologies into our proprietary KYC and risk management systems and information security program and we also partner with an extensive network of third parties to deliver payment processing for customers and disbursement of funds to recipients. In addition, in certain markets there is a limited number of third-party service providers capable of processing payments on our behalf. Any failure or disruption to the services provided by these third parties could cause disruption or delay the delivery of our services and negatively impact our customer experience. For example, any natural disaster that affects the ability of our payment processors to process funds could cause delays to our disbursement process and thereby negatively impact our customer experience and cause our express or economy delivery guarantees to fail. Additionally, if a payment processor experiences a service outage or service interruption that results in our being unable to collect funds from customers, our liquidity could be harmed and we may not meet our capital requirements. Our third-party partners also support our business operations and processes, including customer support services, from their various locations around the world. If such third-party partners choose to cease or otherwise become unable to provide the business process support services for which they are contracted by us, we risk having delays in customer service or other interruptions in our business operations, which can have a detrimental effect on our reputation and ultimately lead to a loss of customers. In addition, some of these third parties process personal information and customer payments subject to our security requirements. Any failure of these parties to implement and operate adequate privacy, data security, business continuity, fraud controls or other internal controls, or any failure of ours to identify and require remediation of weaknesses in these areas, could result in significant liability or financial loss to our customers and us. We could face regulatory or governmental consequences for any significant failure caused by such partners as well as substantial costs associated with remediation of harm, either due to legal requirements or customer experience management. In many cases, we may elect to correct such errors even where not legally or contractually required to do so in order to retain customer loyalty and maintain our brand. If we are not able to innovate, improve existing products, and develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our growth, business, operating results, financial condition and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our solution is a technology-driven platform that relies on innovation to remain competitive. Our process of developing new features and products is complex and relies upon both internally developed and third-party technologies and services, including artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, and cloud-based technologies. We may not be able to make product or technological improvements as quickly as demanded by our customers, or to market them effectively, which could harm our ability to attract or retain customers. For example, we continue to develop new products and services which require ongoing investment. It is possible that these new products may not return our investment or be profitable, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, the majority of our customers access our products through our mobile website and mobile app, and we must ensure that our offerings are optimized for mobile devices and that our mobile apps are interoperable with popular third-party mobile operating systems such as Google Android and Apple iOS. If we are unable to successfully and in a timely fashion innovate and improve our existing products that achieve market acceptance, and continue to deliver a superior customer experience, our growth, business, operating results, financial condition, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive and evolving market and may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors which employ a variety of existing business models and technologies or new innovations. The market for remittances is global, highly competitive, and fragmented and includes a mix of traditional and digital players, including traditional banks, digital-first cross-border payment providers, online-only banks, and cryptocurrency providers. Some of the competitors are significantly larger than we are, have longer operating histories, have more scale and name recognition, and more resources to deploy. We also compete against smaller, country-specific companies, banks, and informal person-to-person money transfer service providers that may have more ability to effectively tailor products and services, marketing and regulatory compliance to local preferences and requirements. 13 Table of Contents For example, some of these competitors may introduce new products or services that render us unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers at prices that are consistent with our pricing model and operating budget. Our pricing strategy for our cross-border payments may prove to be unappealing to our customers, and our competitors could choose to bundle certain products and services that are competitive with ours. If this were to occur, it is possible that we would have to change our pricing strategies or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue and operating results. In addition, the broader financial services sector is experiencing rapid evolution in technologies and there has recently been significant advancement in the development of neobanking and the exchange of digital assets, or cryptocurrency, as well as other real time payment technologies. In particular, the advancement in the development of cryptocurrencies has led to new entrants in the market for remittances and financial services more generally and could materially impact the remittance and financial services industry in the future. Any failure to timely anticipate changes in customer behavior related to new payment technologies, including a preference by our customers for cryptocurrency usage, or to successfully integrate such technologies into our services could result in a loss of customers and corresponding loss of revenue. We have grown rapidly in recent years and have limited operating experience at our current scale of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We also may not be able to sustain our growth rate in the future. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods in both our headcount and transaction volume, both of which place substantial demands on our management and operational resources. We will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures to manage this growth. For example, in the previous four years, our headcount grew from over 750 employees as of the beginning of 2019, to over 2,700 global employees as of December 31, 2022, and we expect our headcount to continue to grow. Additionally, we may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs or we may fail to effectively integrate, develop, and motivate our new employees. If we cannot efficiently and quickly hire and manage our growing number of employees, our employee morale, productivity, and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Further, as we continue to grow, our business becomes increasingly complex and requires more resources. We have expended and anticipate continuing to expend significant capital expenditures and other resources on expanding our IT infrastructure, streamlining our business and management processes, and other operational areas. Continued growth could strain our existing resources and we could experience operating difficulties in managing our business across numerous jurisdictions. Failure to effectively scale could harm our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on our growth strategy. For example, our controls, policies and procedures, including with respect to accounting, risk management, privacy, data security, client on-boarding, transaction monitoring and reliance on manual controls, among other compliance matters, remain under development and may not be consistently applied or fully effective to identify, monitor and manage all risks of our business as we continue to scale rapidly. If we do not inform, train and manage our employees properly, we may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, which could lead to adverse regulatory action. Moreover, the process by or speed with which our internal