Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. You should read the sections titled Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q represent our views as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as may be required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or the reasons that results could differ from these forward-looking statements. You should, therefore, not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Form 10-Q. Overview Remitly is a leading digital financial services provider for immigrants and their families in over 170 countries around the world. The combination of our differentiated approach and our relentless focus on meeting the financial services needs of our immigrant communities has resulted in significant customer growth, high customer engagement, rapid send volume and transaction growth, and attractive customer economics built on top of an expansive global network. Our brand promise is to bring peace of mind into everything we do. We focus on bringing trust, reliability, and a fair and transparent price to cross-border remittances and complementary financial services. To deliver on our brand promise, we have a differentiated approach that aligns with the specific needs and interests of our customers and solves the problems immigrant communities often face in making remittances. There are four core elements to our differentiated approach: Providing a Simple and Reliable Way of Sending Money with Our Mobile-Centric Suite of Products. As of June 30, 2023, our Remitly mobile app had a 4.9 iOS App Store rating with approximately 1.2 million reviewers and a 4.8 Android Google Play rating with approximately 650,000 reviewers. We have achieved this level of engagement and these high ratings by designing mobile-centric products that make the customer experience simple and convenient and give our customers complete peace of mind. Our mobile app for cross-border remittances provides an easy-to-use, end-to-end process. In just a few minutes, customers are able to set up and send money for the first time with Remitly, and repeat transactions become easier with just a few taps. Our customers and their families can also track the status of their transactions in real time. This mobile-centric experience enables us to engage beyond the initial transaction, generating strong repeat usage and high customer loyalty. Conveniently Putting Money Safely in the Hands of Our Customers Families, Wherever They Are, by Relying on Our Global Network. Our global network of funding and disbursement partnerships enables us to complete money transfers in approximately 4,800 corridors without the need to deploy local operations in each country. We are able to do this while complying with global and local licensing and regulatory requirements. A corridor represents the pairing of a send country, from which a customer can send a remittance, with a specific receive country to which such remittance can be sent. As a result of the quality of our network and the foundational investments we have made, in general, every new send country we add results in a significant number of new corridors, as we are able to quickly connect send countries with receive countries, allowing us to continue to scale rapidly. Our disbursement options within our global network continue to grow and remain an important driver of customer loyalty. We have partner relationships with global banks and leading payment providers to give our customers an array of payment (or pay-in) options, including with a bank account, card-based payments, and alternative payment methods. Our disbursement network provides our customers with various digital and traditional delivery methods and enables us to send (or pay-out) funds to approximately 4.0 billion bank accounts, approximately 1.2 billion mobile wallets, and over 460,000 cash pickup locations. We focus on creating financial inclusion by providing payout optionality and access for recipients who do not always have convenient access to traditional banking. We believe our focus on financial inclusion creates peace of mind for our customers and their families while attracting and retaining loyal customers. We continue to believe the quality of our network and our focus on customer preference in disbursement options remain a competitive differentiator. Creating Trusted and Personalized Experiences with Our Localization Expertise at Scale. We believe our expertise in localizing our marketing, products, and customer support at scale is a key differentiator and enables us to provide customers with a personalized experience that drives peace of mind. Localization can mean many things. To us, it means speaking with our customers in their preferred language, reaching them through the media channels they frequent, and being culturally relevant through their journey. While our business is global, we recognize the importance of a culturally relevant experience being delivered to our customers and their families in the many countries we serve. We strive to deliver marketing, product, and support experiences that connect with them in meaningful ways. For example, we tailor our customer experience with more than 15 native languages, and we provide peace of mind with our global customer support team. Additionally, for disbursement of funds, we partner with local brands that are among the most trusted and recognized by our customers and their families. 21 Using Our Data-Driven Approach to Better Serve Our Customers and Provide More Value. We have a data-driven approach to how we grow our business, prioritize our investments, and manage our operations. Because our customers initiate transfers digitally, we capture and leverage a body of transaction-related data that provides insight into customer behavior and customer experience. This data and the analytics we perform inform our marketing investments and product development prioritization. In addition, we leverage our data platform and proprietary models to improve our compliance systems and manage pricing, treasury, fraud risk, and customer support. Acquisition of Rewire On January 5, 2023, we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of Rewire (O.S.G) Research and Development Ltd., a company organized under the laws of the State of Israel (Rewire), for approximately $77.9 million of aggregate consideration, the majority of which was or will be settled in cash, with the remaining consideration settled or to be settled in Remitly equity. The acquisition of Rewire allows us to accelerate our opportunity to differentiate the remittance experience with complementary products, by bringing together our remittance businesses in new geographies, along with a strong team that is culturally aligned with Remitly. Our Revenue Model For our remittance business, which represents substantially all of our revenue today, we generate revenue from transaction fees charged to customers and foreign exchange spreads applied to the amount the customer is sending. Transaction fees vary based on the corridor, the currency in which funds are delivered to the recipient, the funding method a customer chooses (e.g., ACH, credit card, debit card, etc.), the disbursement method a customer chooses (e.g., bank deposit, mobile wallet, cash pick-up, etc.), and the amount the customer is sending. Foreign exchange spreads represent the difference between the foreign exchange rate offered to customers and the foreign exchange rate on the Companys currency purchases. They are an output of proprietary and dynamic models that are designed to provide fair and competitive rates to our customers, while generating a spread for the Company based on our ability to buy foreign currency at generally advantageous rates. Revenue from transaction fees and foreign exchange spreads is reduced by customer promotions. For example, we may, from time to time, waive transaction fees for first-time customers, or provide customers with better foreign exchange rates on their first transaction. These incentives are accounted for as reductions to revenue, up to the point where net historical cumulative revenue, at the customer level, is reduced to zero. We consider these incentives to be an investment in our long-term relationship with customers. Key Business Metrics We regularly review the following key business metrics to evaluate our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. We believe that these key business metrics provide meaningful supplemental information for management and investors in assessing our historical and future operating performance. The calculation of these key business metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, analysts, or investors. The key business metrics that we use to measure the performance of our business are defined as follows: Active customers is defined as the number of distinct customers that have successfully completed at least one transaction using Remitly during a given calendar quarter. We identify customers through unique account numbers. Send volume is defined as the sum of the amount that customers send, measured in U.S. dollars, related to transactions completed during a given period. This amount is net of cancellations, does not include transaction fees from customers, and does not include any credits, offers, or bonuses applied to the transaction by us. As active customers are measured on a quarterly basis, the data for the full-year periods for active customers is not meaningful, and therefore this metric is only presented on a quarterly basis herein. Active Customers Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Active customers 5,033 3,419 We believe that the number of our active customers is an important indicator of customer engagement and the overall growth of our business. Active customers increased to approximately 5.0 million, or 47% growth, for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022. This increase was primarily due to an increase in new customers, driven by investments in our mobile platform and efficient marketing spend, our focus on customer experience, expansion of our global disbursement network, and the continued diversification across both send and receive countries. While we continue to see strong results in our largest existing receive countries, our successful diversification of our corridor portfolio across both send and receive countries has contributed to new customer growth. 22 Send Volume Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Send volume $ 9,580 $ 6,964 $ 18,124 $ 13,058 We measure send volume to assess the scale of remittances sent using our platform. Our customers mostly send from the United States, Canada, and other countries in Europe. Our customers and their recipients are located in over 170 countries and territories across the globe; the largest receive countries by send volume include India, Mexico, and the Philippines. Send volume increased 38% to $9.6 billion for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $7.0 billion for the three months ended June 30, 2022, driven by the increase in active customers. Send volume increased 39%, to $18.1 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $13.1 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2022, driven by the increase in active customers. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Customer Retention and High Customer Engagement Our send volume is primarily driven by existing customers who regularly use our remittance product to send money home. We believe our mobile-first products and superior customer experience encourage high retention and repeat usage, which are significant though not the only drivers of our performance. We measure active customers to monitor the growth and performance of our customer base. The majority of our active customers send money for recurring, non-discretionary needs multiple times per month, providing a recurring revenue stream with high visibility and predictability. Attracting New Customers Our continued ability to attract new customers to our platform is a key driver for our long-term growth. We continue to expand our customer base by launching new send and receive corridors, by continuing to innovate on existing and new products, and by providing the most trusted financial services for immigrants. We plan to continue to acquire new customers through digital marketing channels and word-of-mouth referrals from existing customers, and by exploring new customer acquisition channels. Given the nature of our business, new customer acquisition may negatively impact net loss and Adjusted EBITDA in the initial period, while positively impacting net loss and Adjusted EBITDA in subsequent periods. Customer Acquisition Efficiently acquiring customers is critical to our growth and maintaining of attractive customer economics, which are impacted by online marketing competition, our ability to effectively target the right demographic, and competitor pricing. We have a history of successfully monitoring customer acquisition costs and will continue to be strategic and disciplined toward customer acquisition. For example, for performance marketing, we set rigorous customer acquisition targets that we continuously monitor to ensure a high return on investment over the long term, and we can increase or decrease this investment as desired. Customer acquisition costs refer to direct marketing expenses deployed to acquire new customers and primarily include digital advertising costs. As we look ahead, we expect to increase our investment in marketing. Corridor Mix Our business is global and certain attributes of our business vary by corridor, such as send amount, customer funding sources, and transaction frequency. For example, a period of high growth in receive corridors with large average send amounts, such as India, could disproportionately impact send volume while impacting active customers to a lesser extent. While shifts in our corridor mix could impact the trends in our global business, including send volume and customer economics, we have the ability to optimize these corridors over the long term based on their specific dynamics. Seasonality Our operating results and metrics are subject to seasonality, which may result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results. For example, active customers and send volume generally peak as customers send gifts for regional and global holidays including, most notably, in the fourth quarter around the Christmas holiday. This seasonality typically drives higher fourth quarter customer acquisition, which generally results in higher fourth quarter marketing costs and transaction losses. It also results in higher transactions and transaction expenses, along with higher working capital needs. Other periods of favorable seasonality include Ramadan/Eid, Lunar New Year/Tt, and Mothers Day, although the impact is generally lower than the seasonality we see in the fourth quarter. Conversely, we typically observe lower customer acquisition and existing customer activity through most of the first quarter, especially in regions that experience favorable seasonality in the fourth quarter.The number of business days in a quarter and the day of week that the last day of the quarter falls on may also introduce variability in our results, working capital balances, or cash flows period over period. 23 Our Technology Platform We will continue to invest significant resources in our technology platform. These investments will allow us to introduce new and innovative products, add features to current products, enhance the customer and recipient experience, grow our payment and disbursement network, invest in our risk and security infrastructure, and continue to secure data in accordance with evolving best practices and legal requirements. While we expect our expenses related to technology and development to increase, which may impact short-term profitability, we believe these investments will ultimately contribute to our long-term growth. Management of Risk and Fraud We manage fraud (e.g., through identity theft) and other illegitimate activity (e.g., money laundering) by utilizing our proprietary risk models, which include machine learning processes, early warning systems, bespoke rules, and manual investigation processes. Our models and processes enable us to identify and address complex and evolving risks in these unwanted activities, while maintaining a differentiated customer experience. In addition, we integrate historical fraud loss data and other transaction data into our risk models, which helps us identify emerging patterns and quantify fraud and compliance risks across all aspects of our customer interactions. These models and processes allow us to achieve and maintain fraud loss rates within desired guardrails, as well as tailor our risk models to target other illegitimate activity. Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Changes Global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including inflation, currency fluctuations, immigration, trade and regulatory policies, the conflict in Ukraine, global crises and natural disasters, unemployment, potential recession, and the rate of digital remittance adoption impact demand for our services and the options that we can offer. These factors evolve over time, and periods of significant currency appreciation or depreciation, whether in send or receive currencies, changes to global migration patterns, and changes to digital adoption trends may shift the timing and volume of transactions, or the number of customers using our service. In addition, foreign currency movements do impact our business in numerous ways. For example, as the U.S. dollar strengthens, we see customers in certain markets taking advantage of the ability to get more local currency to their families and friends. We also believe the strength of the U.S. dollar and the strength of other developed market currencies versus emerging market currencies make it easier to acquire new customers in certain markets. Conversely, expansion of our international business can negatively impact our condensed consolidated results when these currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar. As we grow we are becoming more diversified across geographies and currencies which can help mitigate some localized geopolitical risks and macroeconomic trends. As foreign currency can have a significant impact on our business, we strive to maintain a diversified cash balance portfolio and frequently assess for foreign currency cash concentrations. See Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Companys Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a more comprehensive description of current business concentrations. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The Companys revenue is generated on transaction fees charged to customers and foreign exchange spreads between the foreign exchange rate offered to customers and the foreign exchange rate on the Companys currency purchases. Revenue is recognized when control of these services is transferred to the Companys customers, which is the time the funds have been delivered to the intended recipient in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for services provided. Costs and expenses Transaction Expenses Transaction expenses include fees paid to disbursement partners for paying funds to the recipient, provisions for transaction losses, and fees paid to payment processors for funding transactions. Transaction expenses also include credit losses, chargebacks, fraud prevention, fraud management tools, and compliance tools. Over the long term we expect to continue to benefit from increasing scale and improvements in our proprietary fraud models, although we expect some variability in transaction expense from quarter to quarter. Provisions for Transaction Losses The Company is exposed to transaction losses, including chargebacks, unauthorized credit card use, fraud associated with customer transactions, and other non-fraud-related losses. The Company establishes reserves for such losses based on historical trends and any specific risks identified in processing customer transactions. This reserve is included in Accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The provision for transaction losses is included as a component of Transaction expenses within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 24 Customer Support and Operations Customer support and operations expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with the Companys customer support and operations organization, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, as well as third-party costs for customer support services, and travel and related office expenses. This includes our customer service teams which directly support our customers, consisting of online support and call centers, and other costs incurred to support our customers, including related telephony costs to support these teams, customer protection and risk teams, investments in tools to effectively service our customers, and increased customer self-service capabilities. Customer support and operations expenses also include professional services fees. Marketing Marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising costs used to attract new customers, including branding-related expenses. Marketing expenses also include personnel-related expenses associated with the Companys marketing organization staff, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, promotions, software subscription services dedicated for use by the Companys marketing functions, and outside services contracted for marketing purposes. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for employees involved in the research, design, development, and maintenance of both new and existing products and services, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense. Technology and development expenses also include professional services fees and costs for software subscription services dedicated for use by the Companys technology and development teams, as well as other company-wide technology tools. Technology and development expenses also include product and engineering teams used to support the development of both internal infrastructure and internal-use software, to the extent such costs do not qualify for capitalization. We believe delivering new functionality and improving existing technology is critical to attract new customers and expand our relationship with existing customers. We expect to continue to make investments to expand our solutions in order to enhance our customers experience and satisfaction, and to attract new customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for the Companys finance, legal, corporate and business development, human resources, facilities, administrative personnel, and other leadership functions, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses also include professional services fees, software subscriptions, facilities, indirect taxes, and other corporate expenses, including acquisition and integration expenses. Such expenses primarily include external legal, accounting, valuation, and due diligence costs, advisory and other professional services fees necessary to integrate acquired businesses. See Note 5. Business Combinations in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation on property and equipment and leasehold improvements, as well as the amortization of internal-use software costs and amortization of intangible assets. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of the interest expense on our borrowings. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net, primarily consists of foreign exchange gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and state income taxes in the United States. We maintain a full valuation allowance for U.S. deferred tax assets, which includes net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance in the U.S. for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that the assets will not be realized based on our history of losses. 25 Results of Operations Comparison of the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Revenue $ 234,033 $ 157,255 $ 76,778 49 % $ 437,898 $ 293,269 $ 144,629 49 % Revenue increased $76.8 million and $144.6 million, or 49%, for the three and six months months ended June 30, 2023, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in active customers period over period and continued strength in the retention of existing customers, as well as a continued mix shift trending towards digital disbursements. Rewire contributed approximately 2% to the year over year revenue growth rate in both periods. As a reflection of this growth, send volume increased 38%, to $9.6 billion for the three months ended June 30, 2023, and 39%, to $18.1 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2023, as compared to $7.0 billion and $13.1 billion, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively. Transaction Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Transaction expenses $ 80,187 $ 60,826 $ 19,361 32 % $ 154,253 $ 117,089 $ 37,164 32 % Percentage of total revenue 34 % 39 % 35 % 40 % Transaction expenses increased $19.4 million, or 32%, to $80.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $60.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to a $17.5 million increase in direct costs associated with processing a higher volume of our customers remittance transactions and the disbursement of our customers funds to their recipients, a $1.2 million increase in our provision for fraud and other losses, and a $0.7 million increase in other transaction expenses, primarily related to software and tools that support our compliance and risk operations. Transaction expenses increased $37.2 million, or 32%, to $154.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $117.1 million, for the six months ended June 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to a $34.5 million increase in direct costs associated with processing a higher volume of our customers remittance transactions and the disbursement of our customers funds to their recipients, a $2.1 million increase in other transaction expenses, primarily related to software and tools that support our compliance and risk operations, and a $0.6 million increase in our provision for fraud and other losses. As a percentage of revenue, transaction expenses decreased to 34% and 35% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, as compared to 39% and 40% for the three six months June 30, 2022, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to better economics with partners as we are able to secure better terms with our payment and disbursement partners as a result of increasing scale, and also due to improvements in our ability to prevent fraud and other losses. Customer Support and Operations Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Customer support and operations $ 21,483 $ 16,855 $ 4,628 27 % $ 41,414 $ 30,725 $ 10,689 35 % Percentage of total revenue 9 % 11 % 9 % 10 % Customer support and operations expenses increased $4.6 million, or 27%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by a $2.2 million increase in third-party customer support costs, a $1.5 million increase in internal personnel costs at our sites in the Philippines, Nicaragua, Ireland, and Israel that support customer operations, and a $1.2 million increase in software and telephony costs as we supported an increased volume of active customers, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in other operating expenses. 26 Customer support and operations expenses increased $10.7 million, or 35%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by a $5.0 million increase in third-party customer support costs, a $3.6 million increase in internal personnel costs at our sites in the Philippines, Nicaragua, Ireland, and Israel that support customer operations, and a $2.4 million increase in software and telephony costs as we supported an increased volume of active customers, partially offset by by a $0.3 million decrease in other operating expenses. As a percentage of revenue, customer support and operations expenses decreased to 9% for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, from 11% and 10% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, due to process improvements and automation driving scale across customer support headcount at internal and third party customer support sites. Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Marketing $ 53,600 $ 43,849 $ 9,751 22 % $ 97,723 $ 84,470 $ 13,253 16 % Percentage of total revenue 23 % 28 % 22 % 29 % Marketing expenses increased $9.8 million, or 22%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, due primarily to an increase of $4.8 million in direct marketing expense, including online and offline marketing spend and promotion costs to acquire new customers. Personnel-related costs increased by $4.1 million, driven by a 65% increase in marketing headcount compared to the same period in 2022, and inclusive of a $2.0 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in marketing expense was also driven by a $0.9 million increase in other marketing expenses, including professional fees, software, employee-related costs, and indirect marketing. Contributing to the increase in our marketing headcount expense and direct marketing expense is the acquisition of Rewire. Marketing expenses increased $13.3 million, or 16%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, due primarily to an increase of $7.3 million in personnel-related costs driven by a 56% increase in marketing headcount compared to the same period in 2022, and inclusive of a $3.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in marketing expense was also driven by a $4.7 million increase in direct marketing expense, including online and offline marketing spend and promotion costs to acquire new customers, as well as an increase in $1.3 million in other marketing expenses, including software and indirect marketing. Contributing to the increase in our marketing headcount expense and direct marketing expense is the acquisition of Rewire. As a percentage of revenue, marketing expenses decreased to 23% and 22% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, from 28% and 29% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, due to continued channel optimizations and momentum from a larger customer base. Technology and Development Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Technology and development $ 54,309 $ 36,083 $ 18,226 51 % $ 103,685 $ 59,658 $ 44,027 74 % Percentage of total revenue 23 % 23 % 24 % 20 % Technology and development expenses increased $18.2 million, or 51% for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022. The increase was driven by $15.2 million in personnel-related expenses resulting from a 61% increase in headcount compared to the same period in 2022, as part of our continued investment in our technology platform, and included a $4.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in technology and development expense was also driven by a $2.3 million increase in software costs for cloud services to support incremental transaction volume, and a $0.7 million increase in professional fees. Contributing to the increase in our technology and development headcount expense is the acquisition of Rewire. As a percentage of revenue, technology and development expenses remained flat at 23% for the three months ended June 30, 2023, from 23% for the three months ended June 30, 2022. Technology and development expenses increased $44.0 million, or 74%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022. The increase was driven by $38.2 million in personnel-related expenses resulting from a 60% increase in headcount compared to the same period in 2022, as part of our continued investment in our technology platform, and included a $17.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in technology and development expense was also driven by a $4.0 million increase in software costs for cloud services to support incremental transaction volume, a $1.1 million increase in professional fees, and a $0.7 million increase in employee-related costs. Contributing to the increase in our technology and development headcount expense is the acquisition of Rewire. As a percentage of revenue, technology and development expenses increased to 24% for the six months ended June 30, 2023, from 20% for the six months ended June 30, 2022, driven by an increase in stock-based compensation expense and headcount due to hiring additional personnel and contractors who are directly engaged in developing our platform, developing complementary new products, enabling increasing automation, and providing technology support and security, and inclusive of our acquisition of Rewire. 27 General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent General and administrative $ 39,490 $ 37,509 $ 1,981 5 % $ 80,898 $ 60,851 $ 20,047 33 % Percentage of total revenue 17 % 24 % 18 % 21 % Included in the three months ended June 30, 3022 results is approximately $6.5 million of stock-based compensation expense related to a prior period that was identified and corrected for in the three months ended June 30, 2022, of which $5.2 million is also included in the six months ended June 30, 2022. The discussion below excludes this amount from the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 results in all places, for comparative purposes. Excluding the aforementioned amount, general and administrative expenses would have increased $8.5 million, or 27%, and $25.2 million, or 45%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, was primarily driven by an increase in personnel-related costs and other operating expenses, primarily to support the growth of the business. Contributing to the increase in our general and administrative expenses were additional headcount, employee-related costs, facility costs, and professional fees as a result of the acquisition of Rewire. For the three months ended June 30, 2023, personnel-related expenses increased $5.3 million, inclusive of $2.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, as a result of a 43% increase in general and administrative headcount compared to the same period in 2022. We also experienced an increase in other operating expenses of $3.2 million, primarily driven by employee-related costs and professional fees. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, personnel-related expenses increased $13.5 million, inclusive of a $5.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, as a result of a 48% increase in general and administrative headcount compared to the same period in 2022. We also experienced an increase in other operating expenses of $10.2 million, driven by a $3.4 million increase in professional fees, a $2.3 million increase in employee-related costs, a $1.8 million increase in facilities costs, a $1.7 million increase in indirect taxes, and a $1.0 million increase in software. Additionally, we incurred approximately $1.5 million in expenses related to the acquisition and integration of Rewire. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses slightly decreased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, as we begin to leverage scale in our general and administrative functions as a result of our continued revenue growth. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Depreciation and amortization $ 3,187 $ 1,510 $ 1,677 111 % $ 6,216 $ 3,027 $ 3,189 105 % Percentage of revenue 1 % 1 % 1 % 1 % Depreciation and amortization increased $1.7 million, or 111%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022. Depreciation and amortization increased $3.2 million, or 105%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in both periods is primarily driven by the amortization of acquired intangible assets, as part of the acquisition of Rewire in the first quarter of 2023. Interest Income Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Interest income $ 1,368 $ 439 $ 929 nm $ 3,392 $ 475 $ 2,917 nm nm = not meaningful Interest income increased by $0.9 million and $2.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022. These increases are primarily due to an increase in yield on interest-bearing accounts driven by the increase in the U.S. federal funds interest rate. 28 Interest Expense Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Interest expense $ (592) $ (332) $ (260) 78 % $ (981) $ (645) $ (336) 52 % Interest expense increased by $0.3 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to draws on the New Revolving Credit Facility in the current year which did not occur in the prior year. Other (expense) income, net Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent Other (expense) income, net $ (1,546) $ 1,687 $ (3,233) (192) % $ (3,057) $ 2,356 $ (5,413) (230) % Other (expense) income, net, was a $1.5 million loss for the three months ended June 30, 2023, as compared to a $1.7 million gain for the three months ended June 30, 2022. Other (expense) income, net, was a $3.1 million loss for the six months ended June 30, 2023, as compared to a $2.4 million gain for the six months ended June 30, 2022. The change in other (expense) income, net is primarily due to unrealized losses and gains on foreign exchange remeasurements related to transactions associated with high-volume balance sheet amounts. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Amount Percent 2023 2022 Amount Percent (Benefit) provision for income taxes $ (143) $ 662 $ (805) (122) % $ 227 $ 1,190 $ (963) (81) % The (benefit) provision for income taxes decreased in both the three months and six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to a discrete income tax benefit related to excess stock-based compensation deductions in the three months ended June 30, 2023. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We regularly review the following non-GAAP measure to evaluate our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. We believe that this non-GAAP measure provides meaningful supplemental information for management and investors in assessing our historical and future operating performance. The calculation of this non-GAAP measure discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, analysts, or investors. We use Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure to supplement net loss. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as net loss adjusted by (i) interest (income) expense, net; (ii) (benefit) provision for income taxes; (iii) noncash charge of depreciation and amortization; (iv) gains and losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency assets and liabilities into their functional currency; (v) noncash charges associated with our donation of common stock in connection with our Pledge 1% commitment; (vi) noncash stock-based compensation expense, net; and (vii) certain transaction and integration costs associated with acquisitions. Adjusted EBITDA is a key output measure used by our management to evaluate our operating performance, inform future operating plans, and make strategic long-term decisions, including those relating to operating expenses and the allocation of internal resources. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure, should be considered as supplemental in nature, and is not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include the following: although depreciation and amortization are noncash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures or other capital commitments; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the effect of income taxes that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the effect of gains and losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency assets and liabilities into their functional currency; Adjusted EBITDA excludes noncash charges associated with the donation of our common stock in connection with our Pledge 1% commitment, which is recorded in general and administrative expenses; 29 Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has recently been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA excludes certain transaction costs, primarily acquisition and integration expenses related to the Rewire acquisition. Transaction costs primarily include external legal, accounting, valuation, and due diligence costs, advisory and other professional services fees necessary to integrate acquired businesses, and the change in the fair value of the holdback liability as part of the acquisition of Rewire; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently from how we calculate this measure or not at all, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP, for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net loss $ (18,850) $ (38,245) $ (47,164) $ (61,555) Add: Interest (income) expense, net (776) (107) (2,411) 170 (Benefit) provision for income taxes (143) 662 227 1,190 Depreciation and amortization 3,187 1,510 6,216 3,027 Foreign exchange (gain) loss 1,482 (1,687) 2,987 (2,356) Stock-based compensation expense, net 35,200 32,541 64,434 42,135 Transaction costs 316 1,489 Adjusted EBITDA $ 20,416 $ (5,326) $ 25,778 $ (17,389) Adjusted EBITDA was $20.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $(5.3) million for the three months ended June 30, 2022. Adjusted EBITDA was $25.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $(17.4) million for the six months ended June 30, 2022. The significant year over year increase in Adjusted EBITDA is primarily a result of revenue growth and increasing scale efficiencies in transaction expenses and marketing, partially offset by investments in our technology platform to support growth initiatives, including our acquisition of Rewire. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity and Material Future Cash Requirements As of June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $227.5 million and $300.6 million, respectively, as well as funds available under the New Revolving Credit Facility, which we entered into in September 2021. We have historically financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through cash generated from operations including transaction fees and foreign exchange spreads. In recent periods, we have supplemented those cash flows with borrowings on our New Revolving Credit Facility, primarily to support customer transaction volumes during peak periods, which we expect to continue to do in the future. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, we borrowed $334.0 million against this credit facility, of which we repaid $300.0 million. The outstanding balance of $34.0 million as of June 30, 2023 was subsequently repaid the following business day on July 3, 2023. Operations continue to be substantially funded by the existing cash we have on hand and ongoing utilization of the New Revolving Credit Facility (including the letter of credit sub-facility), which has included active borrowings and repayments during 2023. As of June 30, 2023, we have unused borrowing capacity of $190.0 million. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, and funds available under the New Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our material cash requirements include funds to support current and potential operating activities, capital expenditures, and other commitments, and could include other uses of cash, such as strategic investments. In addition, on January 5, 2023, we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of Rewire (as defined herein) for approximately $77.9 million, which includes the fair value of cash and equity issued, or to be issued, to selling shareholders. A portion of these proceeds were held back at closing for any potential indemnity claims, which will be released after a 15-month holdback period, subject to any deductions, the majority of which will be settled in cash, with a portion in Company common stock. As of June 30, 2023, the fair value of the liability held back that will be settled in cash and Company common stock was $12.9 million and is expected to be settled in the next 12 months. 30 Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of expansion into new corridors, and the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements of existing products, and other strategic investments. Furthermore, certain jurisdictions where we operate require us to hold eligible liquid assets, based on regulatory or legal requirements, equal to the aggregate amount of all customer balances. In addition, as discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we expect that our operating expenses may continue to increase to support the continued growth of our business, including increased investments in our technology to support product improvements, new product development, and geographic expansion. We also routinely enter into marketing and advertising contracts, software subscriptions and other service arrangements, including cloud infrastructure arrangements, which are generally entered into in the ordinary course of business, and that can include minimum purchase quantities, requiring us to utilize cash on hand to fulfill these amounts. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments discussed further below. In the future, we may also attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or through equity-linked securities, and the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. In addition, if we raise additional financing by incurring additional indebtedness, we may be subject to increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that are unfavorable to equity investors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital. The inability to raise capital would adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. The following table shows a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods presented: Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (51,467) $ 26,030 Investing activities (44,843) (3,180) Financing activities 23,154 4,437 The year over year change in our cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances is primarily driven by timing of customer transaction-related balances to fund the weekend, as the June 30, 2023 quarter closed on a Friday, as opposed to a Thursday in prior year, as well as activity related to our acquisition of Rewire and our draws on the New Revolving Credit Facility, offset by repayments, further discussed below. Cash Flows Operating Activities Our main sources of operating cash are transaction fees charged to customers and foreign exchange spreads on transactions. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for advertising expenses used to attract new customers, transaction expenses that include fees paid to payment processors and disbursement partners, personnel-related expenses, technology, and other general corporate expenditures. Our changes in operating cash flows are heavily impacted by the timing of customer transactions and, in particular, the day of the week that the quarter end falls on, including holidays and long weekends. For example we generally have higher prefunding amounts if the quarter closes on a weekend or in advance of a long weekend, such as a holiday, which creates variability in customer transaction-related balances period over period and can reduce our cash position at a particular point in time. These balances within our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows include disbursement prefunding, customer funds receivable, customer liabilities, and book overdrafts and disbursement postfunding liabilities, both of which are included within the line item Accrued expenses and other liabilities. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $51.5 million, which was primarily driven by an increase in overall growth in our global network of funding and disbursement partnerships and an increase in volume of customer transactions to support the holiday weekend, which encompassed both domestic and international holidays. Specifically, as a result of both growth and timing, we saw an increase disbursement prefunding of $117.9 million, offset by a decrease in customer funds receivable of $54.2 million, which were the key drivers for the unfavorable changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $77.2 million. This change in our operating assets and liabilities was also partially offset by cash generated from our operations, when excluding the $72.9 million of noncash charges included within the $47.2 million net loss for the period. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $26.0 million, which primarily consisted of favorable changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $42.3 million, partially offset by a net loss of $61.6 million, and excluding $45.3 million of noncash charges included within net loss for the period. The main drivers for the favorable change in operating assets and liabilities were an increase in customer funds liability of $60.3 million due to growth in our business and timing of disbursements and an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $50.4 million due to an increased amount of book overdrafts and disbursement postfunding liabilities driven by the timing of our cash transfers and settlement of customer liabilities. This was partially offset by an increase in disbursement prefunding of $39.9 million, which related to a higher than average balance as of the current period end to fund disbursement partners for expected send volume over a long holiday weekend, combined with an increase of $29.9 million in customer funds receivable due to timing of cash receipts from customers. 31 Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of property and equipment, capitalization of internal-use software, and cash paid for acquisitions of businesses, net of acquired cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Net cash used in investing activities was $44.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, primarily related to the acquisition of Rewire. Net cash used in investing activities also includes purchases of property and equipment to support the increase in headcount, and capitalization of internal-use software costs. Net cash used in investing activities was $3.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily related to purchases of property and equipment to support the increase in headcount and capitalization of internal-use software costs. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of borrowings on the Companys line of credit and proceeds from the exercise of stock options, offset by repayments of borrowings and other indebtedness. Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 of $23.2 million was primarily driven by aggregate proceeds on the New Revolving Credit Facility of $334.0 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $8.3 million, offset by aggregate repayments of borrowings on the New Revolving Credit Facility of $300.0 million and the repayment of assumed indebtedness of $17.1 million associated with the acquisition of Rewire. Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2022 of $4.4 million was primarily driven by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $4.5 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of standby letters of credit, long-term leases, and other purchase commitments entered into in the normal course of business. In addition, we routinely enter into marketing and advertising contracts, software subscriptions or other service arrangements, including cloud infrastructure arrangements, that contractually obligate us to purchase services, including minimum service quantities, unless we give notice of cancellation based on the applicable terms of the agreements. Most contracts are typically cancelable within a period of less than one year, although some of our larger software or cloud service subscriptions require multi-year commitments. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. In addition, on February 19, 2023, we entered into a lease for an office in Israel. This lease commenced in 2023 and will expire in 2027. Total incremental estimated cash payments that will be made over the course of the lease agreement total approximately $6.0 million. This lease has been recorded in accordance with ASC 842, Leases, on the Companys Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2023. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, other than software, cloud infrastructure, and marketing contracts entered into in the normal course of business, there were no other material changes to the contractual obligations and contingencies as disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. For further discussion of commitments and contingencies, also refer to Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2023, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our condensed consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. From time to time we do enter into short-term leases that have lease terms of less than 12 months, and are typically month-to-month in nature. As described in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we elected not to record leases on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets if the lease term is 12 months or less. For further information on our lease arrangements, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. The Companys estimates are based on historical experience and on various other factors that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes, other than as described in Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and as described below to the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 32 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to an impairment assessment annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset cannot be recovered from estimated future cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, the fair value of the asset is calculated using the present value of estimated net future cash flows. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment is recorded. The impairment assessments involve the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Companys Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.