Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References to the Company, us, our or we refer Thunder Bridge Acquisition, Ltd. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated financial statements and related notes included herein. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward- looking statements. When used in this Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward- looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Companys behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Overview The Company is a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company and incorporated for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. The Company intends to effectuate its initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of Public Offering and the Private Placement, the proceeds of the sale of our securities in connection with our initial Business Combination (pursuant to a the forward purchase contract the Company entered into with a member of the Sponsor or backstop agreements we may enter into in connection with our initial Business Combination), our shares, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional ordinary shares in a business combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B ordinary shares resulted in the issuance of Class A ordinary shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B ordinary shares; may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if preference shares are issued with rights senior to those afforded our ordinary shares; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A ordinary shares and/or warrants. 19 Similarly, if the Company issues debt securities, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; the Companys immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; the Companys inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; the Companys inability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares; using a substantial portion of the Companys cash flow to pay principal and interest on the Companys debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on the Companys ordinary shares if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on the Companys flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the Companys business and in the industry in which the Company operates; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on the Companys ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of the Companys strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to the Companys competitors who have less debt. As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, at June 30, 2019 we had $159,379 in cash outside of the Trust Account and have received advances from our Sponsor of $316,866. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete our initial business combination will be successful. On January 21, 2019, the Company, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, including by the First Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 11, 2019, the Second Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 9, 2019 and the Third Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 19, 2019, each such amendment effective as of January 21, 2019, (the Merger Agreement) with TB Acquisition Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), Hawk Parent Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Repay), and CC Payment Holdings, L.L.C., solely in its capacity as the securityholder representative thereunder (the Repay Securityholder Representative). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, (i) the Company will domesticate from a Cayman Islands exempted company to a Delaware corporation (the Domestication) and (ii) Merger Sub will merge with and into Repay with Repay continuing as the surviving entity and a subsidiary of the Company (the Merger and together with the Domestication and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Transactions). In connection with the Transactions, the Companys corporate name will change to Repay Holdings Corporation. As a result of the Transactions, each issued and outstanding Class A ordinary share and Class B ordinary share of the Company will convert into a share of Class A common stock of the Company, and each issued and outstanding warrant to purchase Class A ordinary shares of the Company will be exercisable by its terms to purchase an equal number of shares of Class A common stock of the Company. Each share of Company Class A common stock will provide the holder with the rights to vote, receive dividends, and share in distributions in connection with a liquidation and other shareholder rights with respect to the Company. 20 The merger consideration (the Merger Consideration) to be paid to holders of the limited liability company interests of Repay pursuant to the Merger Agreement will be an amount equal to $580,650,000, subject to adjustment, paid in a mix of cash and units representing limited liability company interests of Repay as the surviving company following the Merger (Post-Merger Repay Units), each of which will be exchangeable on a one-for-one basis for shares of Class A common stock of the Company. The Merger Consideration of $580,650,000 will be reduced (or increased if such amount is negative) by an amount equal to the sum of certain Closing Adjustment Items (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and may be increased by any amounts remaining of the following, which will be deducted from the Merger Consideration and escrowed or otherwise set aside under the Merger Agreement: (a) the Escrow Units referred to under Escrow Units; Purchase Price Adjustment below, (b) $2,000,000 in cash to be held by the Repay Securityholder Representative to pay its costs and expenses, and (c) $150,000 in cash to be held in escrow to cover certain specified indemnity matters under the Merger Agreement. In addition, the Repay equity holders will have the contingent right to receive up to an additional 7,500,000 Post-Merger Repay Units (the Earn Out Units) 50% of which may be earned if within the twelve month anniversary of the closing, the volume weighted average price of the Class A common stock is greater than or equal to $12.50 over any 20 trading days within any 30 trading day period and 100% of which may be earned if within the twenty-four month anniversary of the closing, the volume weighted average price of the Class A common stock is greater than or equal to $14.00 over any 20 trading days within any 30 trading day period (and subject to early release in connection with a sale of the Company after the closing where the price in the sale if more than $10.00 per share). In connection with the Merger Agreement, the Sponsor has agreed to forfeit 2,335,000 of its Founder Shares and any of its remaining Private Placement Warrants after transferring its warrants to PIPE Investors who entered into Lock-Up Agreement (as described below) and to escrow 2,965,000 of its Founder Shares. Fifty percent of the escrowed Sponsor shares will be released from escrow if at any time prior to the seventh anniversary of the closing, the closing price of shares of Class A common stock is greater than or equal to $11.50 for 20 trading days over a 30 trading day period, and 100% of the escrowed Sponsor shares will be released from escrow if at any time prior to the seventh anniversary of the closing the closing price of shares of Class A common stock is greater than or equal to $12.50 for 20 trading days over a 30 trading day period, or subject to certain triggers related to de-listing or a change of control of the Company. The Merger Agreement also requires the establishment of a new management incentive plan and allocates a number of shares to such plan equal to 10% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company after the closing, treating for such purposes (i) the Post-Merger Repay Units as if they had been converted into Company common stock, (ii) the Earn Out Units as if they had been issued and converted into Company common stock, and (iii) the number of shares reserved under the incentive plan as if they were issued and outstanding. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement and subject to certain conditions set forth thereunder, either the Company or Repay can terminate the Merger Agreement if the Closing has not occurred on or prior to July 31, 2019. On January 21, 2019, SunTrust Bank and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. (SunTrust) provided a commitment letter to Merger Sub (the Debt Commitment Letter ) to provide credit facilities of approximately $170,400,000 at the closing of the Merger. In conjunction with its contingent forward purchase contract as described in Note 6, a member of the Sponsor granted its consent to the Merger Agreement. However, in order to facilitate the arrangement of the SunTrust debt financing, the member of the Sponsor waived its right to provide equity financing for the proposed transaction. On May 9, 2019, the parties to the Merger Agreement entered into the Second Amendment to the Merger Agreement (the Second Amendment ) pursuant to which the parties further amended and restated the Merger Agreement, effective as of January 21, 2019, in order to, among other things: require as a condition to the closing of the Transactions (the Closing ) that Thunder Bridge (i) obtain the requisite consent of the holders of Thunder Bridges Warrants (as defined below) to enter into and implement the Warrant Amendment (as defined below) (and provide each of Thunder Bridge and Repay a right to terminate the Merger Agreement if such consent is not obtained), and (ii) enter into and implement the Warrant Amendment; reduce the Base Merger Consideration (as defined in the Merger Agreement) from $600,000,000 to $580,650,000; reduce the Required Cash Consideration Amount (as defined in the Merger Agreement) by $30,000,000; reduce the Cash Consideration payable to the Company Equity Holders (as defined in the Merger Agreement) by the amount of cash required to be paid to holders of Warrants pursuant to the Warrant Amendment; provide for the retention by the consolidated post-Closing company of up to $50,000,000 to the extent there are cash proceeds in excess of the cash amounts required to be paid in connection with the Closing (in addition to the $10 million in cash reserves already provided for in the Merger Agreement) (the Company Balance Sheet Allocation ), which excess cash proceeds are intended to be used for general corporate purposes, including paying debt or funding future acquisitions; remove the $300,000,000 cap on Cash Consideration payable to the Company Equity Holders; 21 provide that Richard Thornburgh will serve on the board of directors of the surviving corporation in lieu of James Kirk; eliminate certain escrow and other provisions of the Merger Agreement relating to contingent obligations of Repay that have been eliminated or satisfied; add additional covenants regarding any Additional Equity Financing (as defined in the Merger Agreement) that is obtained, including the PIPE Investment (as defined below); add additional covenants regarding the Warrant Amendment (including the related Warrantholder Meeting (as defined below)) referred to below; and exclude the Sponsor and the PIPE Investors (as defined below) from Repays Closing condition under the Merger Agreement relating to the 9.9% and 25% Thunder Bridge share ownership limitations upon the Closing. In the Second Amendment, the parties also approved and consented to the Sponsor Letter Amendment (as defined below) and the PIPE Investment with the PIPE Investors specified therein. On June 19, 2019, the parties to the Merger Agreement entered into the Third Amendment to the Merger Agreement (the Third Amendment ) pursuant to which the parties amended the Merger Agreement to extend the termination date of the Merger Agreement from June 30, 2019, to July 31, 2019. In addition, Repay consented to the Debt Commitment Letter Amendment (as defined below). In connection with the execution of the Third Amendment, the parties to the Debt Commitment Letter agreed to amend the Debt Commitment Letter (the Debt Commitment Letter Amendment ) to extend the termination date of the Debt Commitment Letter from June 30, 2019 to July 31, 2019. PIPE Financing On May 9, 2019, Thunder Bridge entered into subscription agreements (each, a Subscription Agreement ) with the investors named therein (the PIPE Investors ), pursuant to which Thunder Bridge agreed to issue and sell to the PIPE Investors an aggregate of One Hundred Thirty-Five Million Dollars ($135,000,000) of Thunder Bridge Class A ordinary shares, at a price of $10.00 per Class A ordinary share, simultaneously with or immediately prior to the Closing (the PIPE Investment ). The PIPE Investment is conditioned on the Closing being scheduled to occur concurrently or immediately following the closing of the PIPE Investment and other customary closing conditions. The proceeds from the PIPE Investment will be used to fund a portion of the Required Cash Consideration payable to the Company Equity Holders, the Warrant Cash Payment payable to the Warrantholders in connection with the Warrant Amendment and other payments required in connection with the Transactions. Excess proceeds will be paid by Thunder Bridge to Repay as the Company Balance Sheet Allocation pursuant to the Merger Agreement and will be available for corporate purposes including paying indebtedness or funding future acquisitions. In the event those excess proceeds together with other cash available in connection with the Transactions exceed $60 million, the excess over such amount will increase the portion of the Merger consideration to be paid to the Company Equity Holders in cash (with a corresponding decrease of the amount to be paid to the Company Equity Holders in units of Repay). Thunder Bridge has agreed in the Subscription Agreements to file a registration statement covering the shares purchased by the PIPE Investors within 15 business days after the closing of the PIPE Investment and to use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of two years following the closing of the PIPE Investment and the first day on which the PIPE Investors can sell all of their shares under Rule 144 without manner of sale or volume restrictions. The foregoing obligations are subject to delay or suspension by Thunder Bridge for customary limited periods. 22 In connection with the PIPE Investment, on May 9, 2019, certain PIPE Investors entered into a letter agreement by and among Thunder Bridge, the Sponsor and the PIPE Investors named therein (the Lock-up Agreement ). Pursuant to the Lock-up Agreement, the PIPE Investors party thereto agreed, for a period commencing on the Closing and ending one hundred twenty (120) days thereafter, not to engage in a Prohibited Transfer (as defined in the Lock-up Agreement (which generally includes all sales, lending and other transfer arrangements, subject to specified exceptions)) with respect to the Thunder Bridge shares acquired by such PIPE Investor pursuant to the Subscription Agreement and the Private Warrants (and any shares issuable upon exercise of such Private Warrants) acquired by such PIPE Investor from the Sponsor pursuant to the Lock-up Agreement. In consideration for entering into the Lock-up Agreement, the Sponsor agreed to transfer to the PIPE Investors party to the Lock-up Agreement an aggregate of 8,000,000 Private Warrants held by the Sponsor. The Private Warrants to be transferred pursuant to the Lock-up Agreement will be subject to the terms of the Warrant Amendment such that following such amendment they will be exercisable for an aggregate of 2,000,000 Class A ordinary shares. Amended Sponsor Letter In connection with the execution of the Second Amendment and the PIPE Investment, the parties amended the letter agreement, dated as of January 21, 2019 (the Sponsor Earnout Letter ), among Thunder Bridge, the Sponsor and Repay (such amendment, the Sponsor Letter Amendment ). Pursuant to the Amended Sponsor Letter, among other things: the Sponsor has agreed to deliver for cancellation at the Closing an additional 1,935,000 of its Class B ordinary shares of Thunder Bridge, for a total of 2,335,000 Class B ordinary shares to be so cancelled; the number of Class B ordinary shares to be deposited into escrow by Sponsor at the Closing and subject to vesting has been reduced by 935,000, to a total of 2,965,000 Class B ordinary shares; the Sponsor has agreed to transfer certain of its Private Warrants (as defined below) to the PIPE Investors pursuant to the Lock-up Agreement referred to below, and to deliver to Thunder Bridge for cancellation any of its remaining Private Warrants after giving effect to such transfer; the Sponsor has waived any rights that it might otherwise have with respect to its Private Warrants to the Warrant Cash Payment (as defined below); the Parent Expense Cap (as defined in the Amended Sponsor Letter) has been increased from $20,000,000 to $21,750,000, and certain expenses relating to the Debt Financing (as defined in the Merger Agreement) were excluded from the expenses subject to the Parent Expense Cap; and the number of Class B ordinary shares that the Sponsor may transfer prior to the Closing without Repays consent to third parties who provide any equity or debt financing for the Transactions has been reduced from 2,150,000 to 1,462,335. The Warrant Amendment In connection with, and as a condition to the consummation of, the proposed Transactions, Thunder Bridge is proposing to enter into an amendment (the Warrant Amendment ) to the Warrant Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2018 (the Warrant Agreement ), between Thunder Bridge and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent (the Warrant Agent ). Pursuant to the Warrant Amendment, the Warrant Agreement will be amended to provide, that: each of the warrants (the Warrants ) to purchase Thunder Bridge Class A ordinary shares outstanding immediately prior to the Closing, including the Warrants issued in Thunder Bridges initial public offering (the Public Warrants ) and the Warrants initially issued to the Sponsor and Cantor in a private placement (the Private Warrants ), will become exercisable for one-quarter of one Class A ordinary share of Thunder Bridge, rather than a whole Class A ordinary share, at an exercise price of $2.875 per one-quarter share ($11.50 per whole share); each holder of the Warrants will receive, for each such Warrant (in exchange for the reduction in the number of shares for which such Warrants are exercisable), $1.50 in cash (the Warrant Cash Payment ); and the Private Warrants will be redeemable and exercisable on the same basis as the Public Warrants. The holders of the Private Warrants have waived their rights to receive the Warrant Cash Payment. 23 In connection with the Transactions, the Warrants will be converted automatically in the Domestication into the right to acquire the number of shares of common stock of Repay Holdings Corporation (Thunder Bridge, as renamed following the Domestication) as would have been issuable if the holder of such Warrants had exercised the Warrants immediately prior to the Domestication (in each case, after giving effect to the Warrant Amendment). The Warrant Amendment requires the approval of holders of at least 65% of the outstanding Public Warrants to become effective. Thunder Bridge will call a meeting (the Warrantholder Meeting ) of the holders of the outstanding Warrants ( Warrantholders ) (to be held immediately prior to the special meeting of holders of Thunder Bridge ordinary shares to be called to consider and vote upon the matters relating to the Transactions) to approve the Warrant Amendment. Cantor Forfeiture Agreement In connection with the PIPE Investment, on May 9, 2019, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. ( Cantor ) entered into a letter agreement, pursuant to which Cantor agreed to forfeit all 350,000 of its Private Warrants. Cantor also waived its rights to the Warrant Cash Payment with respect to its Private Warrants. Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders and Special Meeting of Public Warrant Holders On June 20, 2019, the Company announced that it has set July 10, 2019 as the meeting date for the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders (the Shareholders Meeting) and the special meeting of holders of its public warrants (the Warrant Holders Meeting) relating to the previously announced Transactions. At the Shareholders Meeting, Thunder Bridges shareholders will be asked to approve and adopt the Merger Agreement, as amended, and such other proposals as disclosed in the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the transactions. At the Warrant Holders Meeting, holders of Thunder Bridges public warrants will be asked to approve and adopt the previously announced proposal to amend certain terms of the warrants. If the proposals at the Shareholders Meeting and the Warrant Holders Meeting are approved, Thunder Bridge anticipates closing the Business Combination shortly thereafter, subject to the satisfaction or waiver (as applicable) of all other closing conditions. Results of Operations For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we had a net income of $561,700 and $1,079,312, and a loss from operations of $1,098,216 and $2,102,450, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, we had a net loss of $40,639 and $40,699, respectively. Our entire activity from inception to June 21, 2018 was in preparation for our Public Offering. Since the consummation of our Public Offering through June 30, 2019, our activity has been limited to the evaluation of Business Combination candidates, and we will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our Business Combination. We are incurring increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the Public Offering, our only sources of liquidity were an initial purchase of Founder Shares for $25,000 by the Sponsor, and a total of $277,600 of loans and advances by the Sponsor. On June 21, 2018, we consummated our Public Offering in which we sold 22,500,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit generating gross proceeds of $225,000,000 before underwriting fees and expenses. The Sponsor and Cantor purchased 8,500,000 Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Placement Warrant in a Private Placement that occurred simultaneously with the Public Offering. On June 28, 2018, in connection with the underwriters exercise of their over-allotment option in full, we consummated the sale of an additional 3,300,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, and the Company consummated a private sale of an additional 330,000 private placement warrants to the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $330,000. In connection with the Public Offering, we incurred offering costs of $14,889,816 (including an underwriting fee of $4,500,000 and deferred underwriting commissions of $9,690,000). Other incurred offering costs consisted principally of formation and preparation fees related to the Public Offering. A total of $260,580,000 of the net proceeds from the Public Offering and the Private Placement were deposited in the Trust Account established for the benefit of our public stockholders. As of June 30, 2019, we have available to us $4,005 of cash on our balance sheet and a working capital deficit of $2,183,767. We have been advanced $561,866 by our Sponsor to fund our operations. We will use these funds primarily to and evaluate target businesses, perform business, legal, and accounting due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a business combination. The interest income earn on the investments in the Trust Account are unavailable to fund operating expenses. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor or certain of the Companys officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If the Company completes its initial business combination, it would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that the initial business combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of the working capital held outside the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from its trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 (excluding the $600,000 discussed herein) of such loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants issued to the Sponsor. On April 15, 2019, the Company executed a promissory note with the Sponsor, whereby the Company may borrow up to $600,000. The note is non-interest bearing and matures the earlier of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination or the date of the winding down of the Company. As of June 30, 2019, the Company has borrowed $561,866 under the promissory note. All advances under the note are at the discretion of our Sponsor. We currently have $4,005 of cash available to fund our operations with a working capital deficit of $2,183,767. If our funds are insufficient to meet the expenditures required for operating our business through the consummation of the Transactions and in the event that that Transactions are not consummated, we will likely need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. Moreover, in the event that the Transactions are not consummated, we may need to obtain additional financing to either complete our business combination if our forward purchase agreements are not consummated or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. We cannot assume that additional financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 25 Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or entered into any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations At June 30, 2019, we did not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities. The Underwriter was paid a cash underwriting fee of 2% of gross proceeds of the Public Offering, excluding any amounts raised pursuant to the overallotment option, or $4,500,000. In addition, the Underwriter is entitled to aggregate deferred underwriting commissions of $9,690,000 consisting of (i) 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Public Offering, excluding any amounts raised pursuant to the overallotment option, and (ii) 5.5% of the gross proceeds of the Units sold in the Public Offering pursuant to the overallotment option. The deferred underwriting commissions will become payable to the Underwriter from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes an initial Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires the Companys management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Emerging Growth Company The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. 26 Net Gain (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Basic loss per ordinary share is computed by dividing net income (loss) applicable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Consistent with FASB 480, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, as well as their pro rata share of undistributed trust earnings consistent with the two-class method, have been excluded from the calculation of loss per ordinary share for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of trust earnings. Diluted loss per share includes the incremental number of shares of ordinary shares to be issued to settle warrants, as calculated using the treasury method. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company did not have any dilutive warrants, securities or other contracts that could potentially, be exercised or converted into ordinary shares. As a result, diluted loss per ordinary share is the same as basic loss per ordinary share for all periods presented. A reconciliation of net loss per ordinary share as adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to ordinary shares subject to redemption is as follows: For the Three Months Ended June 30, For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net income (loss) $ 561,700 $ (4,588 ) $ 1,079,312 $ (4,648 ) Less: Income attributable to ordinary shares (1,561,343 ) (36,051 ) (3,004,175 ) (36,051 ) Net loss available to ordinary shares: $ (999,643 ) $ (40,639 ) $ (1,924,863 ) $ (40,699 ) Basic and diluted weighted average number of shares 7,982,110 6,596,299 7,890,005 6,523,554 Basic and diluted loss available to ordinary shares $ (0.13 ) $ (0.01 ) $ (0.24 ) $ (0.01 ) Fair Value of Financial Instruments The fair value of the Companys assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, approximates the carrying amounts represented in the balance sheet primarily due to their short term nature. Offering Cost The Company complies with the requirements of FASB ASC 340-10-S99-1 and SEC Staff Bulletin 5A - Expenses of Offering. Offering costs were $14,889,816 (including underwriting commission of $4,500,000 and deferred underwriting commissions of $9,690,000), consisting principally of costs incurred in connection with formation and preparation for the Public Offering. These offering costs were charged to additional paid in capital upon closing of the Public Offering. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740). ASC 740 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax loss and tax credit carry forwards. ASC 740 additionally requires a valuation allowance to be established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. ASC 740 also clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits as of September 30, 2018. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. There is currently no taxation imposed on income by the Government of the Cayman Islands. 27 Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption The Company accounts for its ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as stockholders equity. The Companys ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the Companys control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at September 30, 2018, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of the Companys balance sheet. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys financial statements.