Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks described under Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except to the extent required by federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there is no assurance that the events or results suggested by the forward-looking statements will in fact occur, and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 1 PART i Item 1. Business Organizational Structure and Corporate Information Repay Holdings Corporation was incorporated as a Delaware corporation on July 11, 2019 in connection with the closing of a transaction (the Business Combination) pursuant to which Thunder Bridge Acquisition Ltd., a special purpose acquisition company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands (Thunder Bridge), (a) domesticated into a Delaware corporation and changed its name to Repay Holdings Corporation and (b) consummated the merger of a wholly owned subsidiary with and into Hawk Parent Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Hawk Parent). Unless otherwise noted or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, Repay and the Company and similar references refer (1) before the Business Combination, to Hawk Parent and its consolidated subsidiaries and (2) from and after the Business Combination, to Repay Holdings Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted or unless the context otherwise requires, Thunder Bridge refers to Thunder Bridge Acquisition. Ltd. prior to the consummation of the Business Combination. We are headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Our legacy business was founded as M & A Ventures, LLC, a Georgia limited liability company doing business as REPAY: Realtime Electronic Payments (REPAY LLC), in 2006 by current executives John Morris and Shaler Alias. Hawk Parent was formed in 2016 in connection with the acquisition of a majority interest in the successor entity of REPAY LLC and its subsidiaries (the 2016 Recapitalization) by certain investment funds sponsored by, or affiliated with, Corsair Capital LLC (Corsair). Business Overview We are a leading payments technology company. We provide integrated payment processing solutions to industry-oriented vertical markets in which businesses have specific and bespoke transaction processing needs. We refer to these markets as vertical markets or verticals. We are a payments innovator, differentiated by our proprietary, integrated payment technology platform and our ability to reduce the complexity of electronic payments for businesses. We intend to continue to strategically target verticals where we believe our ability to tailor payment solutions to our customers needs, our deep knowledge of our vertical markets, and the embedded nature of our integrated payment solutions will drive strong growth by attracting new customers and fostering long-term customer relationships. We processed approximately $10.7 billion of total card payment volume in 2019. Our year-over-year card payment volume growth was approximately 44% in 2019 and 42% in 2018. As of December 31, 2019, we had over 14,000 customers. Our top 10 customers, with an average tenure of approximately four years, contributed to approximately 28% and 33% of total gross profit during the year ended December 31, 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018, respectively. Our leading competitive position and differentiated solutions have enabled us to achieve unique advantages in fast-growing and strategically-important segments of the payments market. We provide payment processing solutions to customers primarily operating in the personal loans, automotive loans, receivables management, and business-to-business verticals. Our payment processing solutions enable consumers and businesses in these verticals to make payments using electronic payment methods, rather than cash or check, which have historically been the primary methods of payment in these verticals. We believe that a growing number of consumers and businesses prefer the convenience and efficiency of paying with cards and other electronic methods and that we are poised to benefit from the significant growth opportunity of electronic payment processing as these verticals continue to shift from cash and check to electronic payments. The personal loans vertical is predominately characterized by installment loans, which are typically utilized by consumers to finance everyday expenses. The automotive loans vertical predominantly includes subprime automotive loans, automotive title loans and automotive buy-here-pay-here loans and also includes near-prime and prime automotive loans. Our receivables management vertical relates to consumer loan collections, which typically enter the receivables management process due to delinquency on credit card bills or as a result of major life events, such as job loss or major medical issues. The business-to-business vertical relates to transactions occurring between a wide variety of enterprise customers, many of which operate in the manufacturing, wholesale, and distribution industries. Our go-to-market strategy combines direct sales with integrations with key software providers in our target verticals. The integration of our technology with key software providers in the verticals that we serve, including loan management systems, dealer management systems, collection management systems, and enterprise resource planning software systems, allows us to embed our omni-channel payment processing technology into our customers critical workflow software and ensure seamless operation of our solutions within our customers enterprise management systems. We refer to these software 2 providers as our software integration partners. This integration allows our sales force to readily access new customer opportunities or respond to inbound leads because, in many cases, a business will prefer, or in some cases only consid er, a payments provider that has already integrated or is able to integrate its solutions with the business primary enterprise management system. We have successfully integrated our technology solutions with numerous, widely-used enterprise management sys tems in the verticals that we serve, which makes our platform a more compelling choice for the businesses that use them. Moreover, our relationships with our partners help us to develop deep industry knowledge regarding trends in customer needs. Our integr ated model fosters long-term relationships with our customers, which supports our volume retention rates that we believe are above industry averages. As of December 31, 2019 , we maintained approximately 70 integrations with various software providers. Strategic acquisitions are another important part of our long-term strategy. Our acquisitions have allowed us to further penetrate existing vertical markets, access new strategic vertical markets, broaden our technology and solutions suite, and expand our customer base. Our growth strategy is to continue to build our company through a disciplined combination of organic and acquisitive growth. We continue to focus on identifying strategic acquisition candidates in an effort to drive accretive growth. Growth Strategies We intend to drive future growth in the following ways: Increase Penetration in Existing Verticals We expect to grow meaningfully by continuing to provide innovative payment solutions and customer support to our existing customers as well as new customers in the verticals that we currently serve. In addition, our business model allows us to benefit from the growth of our customers and software integration partners. As our customers payment volumes and transactions increase, our revenues increase as a result of the fees we charge for processing these payments. Many of the vertical markets in which we compete are experiencing a secular shift from legacy payment mediums primarily cash and check to electronic forms of payment. We stand to benefit from this trend as our customers increasingly opt to process payments via the electronic forms of payment in which we specialize. New Vertical and Geographic Expansion We also expect that we will find attractive growth potential in certain verticals in which we currently have limited operations. Though we offer highly customized payment solutions to our customers, our core technology platform is comprehensive and can be leveraged to penetrate other strategic vertical markets. Several verticals, including but not limited to, healthcare, credit unions, and niche business-to-business, are natural extensions of our existing verticals and are well suited to benefit from our core technology offerings. Additionally, we envision growing our geographic footprint, as new territories continue to present new business opportunities. For example, we are focused on expanding our Canadian operations, as the demand for our solutions among existing and prospective Canadian customers remains strong. Strengthen and Extend Our Solution Portfolio through Continued Innovation. As we further integrate our solution into our clients workflow, we will look to continue to innovate on our solution set and broaden our suite of services. Our acquisition of TriSource and our continued investment in our technology capabilities position us to provide value-added services that will address the evolving needs of our clients as they seek to best serve their customers. The ability to serve clients across market verticals and to be integrated across various software platforms enables us to understand the needs of clients across markets and to scale our innovative solutions to a broad segment of the market. Continue to Drive Operational Efficiencies As we continue to grow, we expect to become a more significant partner to our sponsor banks, third party processors and software integration partners, which we expect will give us greater leverage as we expand our contractual relationships with them. We will continue to drive operating leverage in our non-technology personnel expenditures, as we believe that we can process larger payment volumes without significant increases to our personnel and operating expenses. Strategic Acquisitions From January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2019, we have successfully acquired eight businesses. Given the large size and attractive growth trends of our current addressable market, we are primarily focused on growing our business 3 organically. However, we may selectively pursue strategic acquis itions as opportunities arise that meet our internal requirements for the use of capital and return on investment. Some of these opportunities may include those that enable us to acquire new capabilities that may be harder to develop in-house, gain entranc e into new segments of the market, enter new markets , or consolidate our existing market. Solutions We provide our customers with comprehensive solutions relating to the following methods of electronic payment: Credit and Debit Processing Allows our customers to send and accept card payments. These payments can be made using any of our payment channels, as further described below. Automated Clearing House (ACH) Processing Our ACH processing capabilities allow our customers to send and accept traditional and same-day ACH transactions. Instant Funding Our instant funding capabilities allow our customers to transfer funds directly to a consumers debit or prepaid card. We have created a proprietary process that decreases processing delays typically associated with traditional fund disbursements. The above payment and funding methods are processed through our proprietary payment channels: Web-based Virtual Terminal A terminal that provides virtual payment access for processing of ACH or card transactions. Hosted Payment Page A customer-branded terminal that enables ACH and card transaction processing. Online Customer Portal A consumer-facing, merchant-specific website that gives a merchants customer the ability to pay online and view account information anywhere, anytime. A Repay hosted website may be stand alone or integrated with any other software application. Mobile Application We provide customers the ability to accept payments via a mobile application on a customized, white-label basis. Text-to-Pay Allows a business customer to pay with a simple text message after receiving an SMS alert that reminds such customer when payments are due. Interactive Voice Response (IVR) A secure and flexible option to pay over the phone, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, via a 1-800 number with bilingual capabilities. Point of Sale (POS) We provide payment acceptance at brick-and-mortar locations through POS equipment that requires a merchants customer to provide a card. Sales and Distribution Our sales strategy consists of our direct sales representatives, who focus on each of our core verticals, and our software integration partners, which primarily focus on prospective customers within their targeted verticals whose businesses could be best served by their enterprise software solutions. Direct Sales Representatives Our sales representatives are organized by vertical market and account size. Direct sales representatives work with our customers and software integration partners to understand our customers desired payment solutions and then communicate those desires to our product and technology teams, who build a customized suite of products and payment channels tailored to our customers specific needs. Software Integration Partners We are currently integrated with approximately 70 software partners that are providers of our customers primary enterprise management systems. Our integrations ensure seamless delivery of our full suite of payment processing capabilities to our customers. These integrations are also a critical part of our marketing strategy, as many customers will 4 p refer to award their payments business to payments processors who have worked to integrate their solutions into the customers enterprise management systems. Operations We believe that we have developed an effective operations system, including our proprietary onboarding, compliance and merchant oversight processes, which is structured to enhance the performance of our platform and support our customers. 5 Customer and Transaction Risk Management We target customers that we identify as low-risk through the development of underwriting policies and transaction management procedures to manage approval of new accounts and to establish ongoing monitoring of customer accounts. Effective risk management aids us in minimizing merchant losses relating to chargebacks, rejecting losses and avoiding merchant fraud for the mutual benefit of our customers, our sponsor banks and ourselves. Proprietary Compliance Management System . We have developed proprietary onboarding, compliance, and merchant oversight processes, of which our Compliance Management System (CMS) is a part. Our CMS, developed in conjunction with the Third Party Payment Processors Association (TPPPA), is based on four main components board and management oversight, a compliance program with written policies and procedures and employee training and monitoring, response to consumer complaints and annual compliance audits from an independent third party and is inclusive of the Electronic Transaction Association (ETA) guidelines on underwriting and risk. Customer Onboarding . We believe we maintain rigorous underwriting standards. Prospective customers submit applications to our credit underwriting department, which performs verification and credit-related checks on all applicants. Each customer is assigned a risk profile based on sponsor bank requirements, as well as additional criteria specified by us. Our sponsor banks periodically review and approve of our underwriting policies to ensure compliance with applicable law, regulations and payment network rules. Upon approval, the ongoing risk level of a customer is monitored and adjusted on a monthly basis based on additional data relating to such customer. Customer Monitoring . Each customers file is assigned one of three risk levels (low, medium or high) corresponding to several customer behaviors. We review and adjust these risk levels on a monthly basis and additionally subject them to more in-depth quarterly reviews. We also engage third parties and rely on internal reporting to identify and monitor credit/fraud risk. We generate customer-specific reports that compile daily and historical transactions, which may include average ticket, transaction volume, refund and chargeback levels and authorization history, which we utilize in order to identify suspicious processing activity. We review these reports on a daily basis and suspend any irregular processing activity, which is subject to review, remediation and, as appropriate, suspension of either an individual or batch of transactions or a particular customer, as applicable. Investigation and Loss Prevention . If a customer exceeds the parameters established by our underwriting and/or risk management team or we determine that a customer has violated the payment network rules or the terms of its service agreement with us, one of our team members will identify and document the incident. We then review the incident to determine the actions taken or that we can take to reduce our exposure to loss and the exposure of our customer to liability. As a part of this process, we may request additional transaction information, withhold or divert funds, verify delivery of merchandise or, in some circumstances, deactivate the customer account, include the customer on the Network Match List to notify our industry of the customers behavior or take legal action against the customer. Collateral . We require some of our customers to establish cash or non-cash collateral reserves, which may include certificates of deposit, letters of credit, rolling merchant reserves or upfront cash. This collateral is utilized in order to offset potential credit or fraud risk liability that we may incur. We attempt to hold such collateral reserves for as long as we are exposed to a loss resulting from a customers payment processing activity. Chargebacks . The payment networks permit the reversal of a money transfer, a chargeback, up to six months (or in rare cases, a longer time frame) after the later of the date the transaction is processed or the delivery of the product or service to the cardholder. If the customer incurring the chargeback is unable to fund the refund to the card-issuing bank, we are required to do so by the rules of the payment networks and our contractual arrangements with our sponsor banks. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we believe our chargeback rate was under 1% of our payment volume. Security, Disaster Recovery, and Back-up Systems We adhere to strict security standards to protect the payment information that we process. We regularly update our network and provide operating system security releases and virus defenses. We have retained an external party to audit our systems compliance with current security standards as established by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS), Service Organization Control (SOC), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and to test our systems against vulnerability to unauthorized access. Further, we use one of the most advanced commercially available technologies to encrypt the cardholder numbers and customer data that we store in our databases. Additionally, we have a dedicated team responsible for security incident response, which team develops, maintains, tests and verifies our incident response plan. Disaster recovery is built into our infrastructure through redundant hardware and software applications hosted in two distinct cloud regions. Our primary cloud region is set up to be replicated, substantially on a real time basis, by our secondary cloud region such that if our primary cloud region becomes impaired or unavailable, operations 6 are redirected to the secondary cloud region. Our incident response team tests these systems each quarter to assess the effectiveness of our disaster recovery plan, including staff rea diness and operational capability. Third Party Processors and Sponsor Banks We partner with institutions in the payment chain to provide authorization, settlement and funding services in connection with our customers transactions. These institutions include third party processors and sponsor banks, who sit between us, acting as the merchant acquirer, and the payment networks, such as Visa, MasterCard and Discover. When we facilitate a transaction as a merchant acquirer, we utilize third party processors such as Total Systems Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of Global Payments, Inc.), Worldpay, Inc. (a subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.), and Fiserv Inc. Under such processing arrangements, the third party processors and vendors receive processing fees based on a percentage of the payment volume they process. These processors and vendors in turn have agreements with the payment networks, which permit them to route transaction information through their networks in exchange for fees. In addition, in order for us to process and settle transactions for our customers, we have entered into sponsorship agreements with banks that are members of the payment networks. We are required to register with the payment networks through these bank partners because we, as payment processors, are not member banks as defined by the major payment networks. Our member bank partners sponsor our adherence to the rules and standards of the payment networks and enable us to route transactions under the sponsor banks control and identification numbers (for example, known as BIN for Visa and ICA for MasterCard) across the card and ACH networks to authorize and clear transactions. Our relationships with multiple sponsor banks give us the flexibility to shift payment volumes between them, which helps us to secure more competitive pricing for our customers and to maintain redundancy. Competition We compete with a variety of payment processing companies that have different business models, go-to-market strategies and technical capabilities. We compete with a large number of small payments processing companies that provide integrated payments solutions and/or related hardware to customers within our existing verticals. More broadly in the overall payments industry, our payment and software solutions compete against many forms of financial services and payment systems, including Open Edge (a division of Global Payments), ACI Worldwide, Inc., JetPay Corporation (a subsidiary of NCR Corporation), Electronic Payment Providers, Inc. (d.b.a. BillingTree), Paya, Inc., Paymentus Corporation and Zelis. We also compete against many traditional merchant acquirers, such as financial institutions, affiliates of financial institutions and payment processing companies in the payment processing industry, including Bank of America Merchant Services, Elavon, Inc. (a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp), Wells Fargo Merchant Services, Global Payments, Inc., WorldPay, Inc. (a subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.) and Total Systems Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of Global Payments, Inc.). We believe the most significant competitive factors in the markets in which we compete are: (1) economics, including fees charged to merchants and commission payouts to software integration partners; (2) product offering, including emerging technologies and development by other participants in the payments ecosystem; (3) service, including product functionality, value-added solutions and strong customer support for both merchants and software integration partners; and (4) reliability, including a strong reputation for quality service and trusted software integration partners. Our competitors include large and well-established companies, including banks, credit card providers, technology and ecommerce companies and traditional retailers, many of which are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position in the markets in which they operate or offer other products and services to consumers and customers which we do not offer. Moreover, we compete against all forms of payments, including credit cards, bank transfers, and traditional payment methods, such as cash and check. Acquisitions Our historical acquisition activity has allowed us to access new markets, acquire industry talent, broaden our product suite, and supplement organic growth. Our first three acquisitions of TBT, Inc., National Translink Corp. and Merchants Choice, Inc. and Falcon Payment Solutions, LLC were small portfolio acquisitions completed prior to 2016 that provided us with valuable merchant contract rights, industry talent and additions to our sales teams. These acquisitions are not representative of our current acquisition strategy, which will focus on integrated payments companies serving attractive vertical markets and opportunities to broaden our product offerings. Since 2016 through December 31, 2019, we have completed five larger acquisitions, which are described below. These acquisitions were of payment companies and are representative of the acquisitions we envision consummating in the future. Sigma Acquisition Effective as of January 1, 2016, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Sigma Payment Solutions, Inc. (Sigma). Sigma was an electronic payment solutions provider to the automotive finance industry. The transaction marked 7 Repays expansion into the automotive finance space. We have benefitted greatly from Sigmas deep integrations with automotive finance software platforms, or Dealer Management Systems. PaidSuite Acquisition On September 28, 2017, we acquired substantially all of the assets of PaidSuite, Inc. and PaidMD, LLC (collectively, PaidSuite). PaidSuite was an electronic payment solutions provider to the accounts receivable management industry. The transaction accelerated our growth into the accounts receivable management space via customer and software integration partner relationships. Paymaxx Acquisition On December 15, 2017, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Paymaxx Pro, LLC (Paymaxx). The acquisition of Paymaxx has been highly complementary to our earlier acquisition of Sigma and has bolstered our position in the niche automotive finance market. As part of the acquisition, we acquired increased distribution capabilities in the form of an internal sales force and numerous DMS integrations. TriSource Acquisition On August 14, 2019, we acquired all of the equity interests of TriSource for $60.1 million in cash. In addition to the $60.1 million cash consideration, the TriSource selling equityholders may be entitled to a $5.0 million cash earnout payment, dependent on the achievement of certain growth targets. Since 2012, we have used TriSource as one of our primary third-party processors for settlement solutions when we facilitate transactions as a merchant acquirer. The acquisition of TriSource has provided further control over our transaction processing ecosystem and accelerated product delivery capabilities. APS Acquisition On October 14, 2019, we acquired substantially all of the assets of American Payment Services of Coeur DAlene, LLC, North American Payment Solutions LLC, and North American Payment Solutions Inc. (collectively, APS) for $30.0 million in cash. In addition to the $30.0 million cash consideration, the APS selling equityholders may be entitled to a total of $30.0 million in three separate cash earnout payments, dependent on the achievement of certain growth targets. The acquisition of APS meaningfully expanded our addressable market by enabling us to access the business-to-business vertical. Government Regulation We operate in an increasingly complex and ever evolving legal and regulatory environment. Our and our customers businesses are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as the rules and standards of the payment networks that we utilize to provide our electronic payment services. While in some cases payment processors such as Repay are not directly regulated by governmental agencies, because of the rules and regulations enacted at the state and federal level that affect our customers and sponsor banks, we have developed and continually evaluate and update our compliance models to keep up with the rapid evolution of the legal and regulatory regime our customers and sponsor banks face. We are also subject to legal and regulatory requirements which govern the use, storage and distribution of the information we collect from our customers and cardholders while processing transactions. Dodd-Frank Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act) and its related rules and regulations have resulted in significant changes to the regulation of the financial services industry, including the electronic payment industry. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer receives and are established by a payment card network for an electronic debit transaction are regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve). The Dodd-Frank Act and the Federal Reserves implementing regulations require that such interchange fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer in processing the transactions. Federal Reserve regulations implementing this reasonable and proportional requirement have capped debit interchange rates for card issuers operating in the United States with assets of $10 billion or more at the sum of $0.21 per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction to reflect a portion of the issuers fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. In addition, the regulations contain non-exclusivity provisions that ban debit card networks from prohibiting an issuer from contracting with any other card network that may process an electronic debit transaction involving an issuers debit cards and prohibit card issuers and card networks from inhibiting the ability of merchants to direct the routing of debit card transactions over any network that can process the transaction. Beginning April 1, 2012, most debit card issuers in the United States were required 8 to participate in at least two unaffiliated debit card networks. On A pril 1, 2013, the ban on network exclusivity arrangements became effective for prepaid card and healthcare debit card issuers, with certain exceptions for prepaid cards issued before that date. On May 1, 2013, the ban on network exclusivity arrangements be came effective for all reloadable general use prepaid cards. Effective July 22, 2010, merchants were allowed to set minimum dollar amounts (not to exceed $10) for the acceptance of a credit card (while federal governmental entities and institutions of higher education may set maximum amounts for the acceptance of credit cards). They were also allowed to provide discounts or incentives to entice consumers to pay with an alternative payment method, such as cash, checks or debit cards. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB), which has rulemaking authority over consumer protection laws, including the authority to regulate consumer financial products in the United States, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. The CFPB may also have authority over us as a provider of services to regulated financial institutions in connection with consumer financial products. Any new rules or regulations implemented by the CFPB, and other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, or pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that are applicable to us or our customers businesses, or any adverse changes thereto, could increase our cost of doing business or limit our current offerings of integrated payment solutions. Privacy and Information Security Regulations We provide services that may be subject to various state and federal privacy laws and regulations. Relevant federal privacy laws include the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which (along with its implementing regulations) restricts certain collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, requires notice to individuals of privacy practices and provides individuals with certain rights to prevent the use and disclosure of certain nonpublic or otherwise legally protected information. These rules also impose requirements for the safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. Our business may also be subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, which regulates the use and reporting of consumer credit information and imposes disclosure requirements on entities who take adverse action based on information obtained from credit reporting agencies. In addition, there are state laws governing the collection of personal information, including those restricting the ability to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and drivers license numbers. Certain state laws impose similar privacy obligations as well as obligations to provide notification of security breaches of computer databases that contain personal information to affected individuals, state officers and others. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) of 2018, which became effective January 1, 2020, imposes more stringent requirements with respect to California data privacy. The CCPA includes provisions that give California residents expanded rights to access and delete certain personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how certain personal information is used. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Regulation Our business is subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws and regulations. We are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by OFAC that prohibit or restrict transactions to or from (or transactions dealing with) narcotics traffickers, terrorists, terrorist organizations, certain individuals, specified countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals. Similar anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified on lists maintained by organizations similar to OFAC in several other countries and which may impose specific data retention obligations or prohibitions on intermediaries in the payment process. We have developed and continue to enhance compliance programs and policies to monitor and address related legal and regulatory requirements and developments. Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices We and many of our customers are subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices and various state laws similar in scope and subject matter thereto. In addition, laws prohibiting these activities and other laws, rules and or regulations, including the Telemarketing Sales Act, may directly impact the activities of certain of our customers, and in some cases may subject us, as the customers payment processor or provider of certain services, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds if we are deemed to have aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal or improper activities of a customer through our services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission and the states attorneys general, have authority to take action against payment processors who violate such laws, rules and regulations. To the extent we are processing payments or providing services for a customer suspected of violating such laws, rules and 9 regulations, we may face enforcement actions and, as a result, incur losses and liabilities that may adversely affect our business. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act gave the CFPB broad authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the provision of consumer financial products and services. The CFPB recently issued a policy statement providing a framework for how it defines abusive conduct and how it will enforce the prohibition against abusive acts or practices in enforcement actions against financial services companies and their service providers (including payment processors). UDAAP violations include omissions or misrepresentations of important information to consumers or practices that take advantage of vulnerable consumers, such as elderly or low-income consumers. The CFPB has left open the possibility of engaging in a future rulemaking to further define the abusiveness standard and it is uncertain how future rulemaking may impact our business operations and risk. Indirect Regulatory Requirements Certain of our customers and our sponsor banks are financial institutions that are directly subject to various regulations and compliance obligations issued by the CFPB, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration and other agencies responsible for regulating financial institutions, which includes state financial institution regulators. While these regulatory requirements and compliance obligations do not apply directly to us, many of these requirements materially affect the services we provide to our customers and us overall. The financial institution regulators have imposed requirements on regulated financial institutions to manage their third-party service providers. Among other things, these requirements include performing appropriate due diligence when selecting third-party service providers; evaluating the risk management, information security, and information management systems of third-party service providers; imposing contractual protections in agreements with third-party service providers (such as performance measures, audit and remediation rights, indemnification, compliance requirements, confidentiality and information security obligations, insurance requirements and limits on liability); and conducting ongoing monitoring, diligence and audit of the performance of third-party service providers. Accommodating these requirements applicable to our customers imposes additional costs and risks in connection with our relationships with financial institutions. We expect to expend significant resources on an ongoing basis in an effort to assist our customers in meeting their legal requirements. Additionally, our customers, particularly those in the consumer finance market, are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that impose restrictions and requirements on their businesses, such as limitations on interest rates and fees, maximum loan amounts and the number of simultaneous or consecutive loans, imposition of required waiting periods between loans, loan extensions and refinancing, requiring payment schedules (including maximum and minimum loan durations) or repayment plans for borrowers claiming inability to repay loans, mandating disclosures, security for loans, licensing requirements and, in certain jurisdictions, database reporting and loan utilization information. Payment Network Rules and Standards Payment networks, such as Visa, MasterCard and American Express, establish their own rules and standards that allocate liabilities and responsibilities among the payment networks and their participants. These rules and standards, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, govern a variety of areas, including how consumers and customers may use their cards, the security features of cards, security standards for processing, data security and allocation of liability for certain acts or omissions, including liability in the event of a data breach. The payment networks may change these rules and standards from time to time as they may determine in their sole discretion and with or without advance notice to their participants. These changes may be made for any number of reasons, including as a result of changes in the regulatory environment, to maintain or attract new participants, or to serve the strategic initiatives of the networks, and may impose additional costs and expenses on or be disadvantageous to certain participants. Participants are subject to audit by the payment networks to ensure compliance with applicable rules and standards. The networks may fine, penalize or suspend the registration of participants for certain acts or omissions or the failure of the participants to comply with applicable rules and standards. In order for us to process and settle transactions for our customers, we have entered into sponsorship agreements with banks that are members of the payment systems. We are required to register with the payment networks through these bank partners because we, as payment processors, are not member banks as defined by the major payment networks rules and standards governing access to those networks. Our bank partners sponsor our adherence to the rules and standards of the payment networks and enable us to route transactions under the sponsor banks control and identification numbers (known as BIN for Visa and ICA for MasterCard) across the card and ACH networks to authorize and clear transactions. Payment network rules restrict us from performing funds settlement and require that merchant settlement funds be in the possession of 10 the member bank until the merchant is funded. These restrictions place the settle ment assets and liabilities under the control of the member bank. Our sponsorship agreements give our sponsor banks substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for customers and the terms of our agreements with customers, and provide them with the right to audit our compliance with the payment network rules and guidelines. We are also subject to network operating rules and guidelines promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA) relating to payment transactions we process using the Automated Clearing House Network. Like the payment networks, NACHA may update its operating rules and guidelines at any time, which can require us to take more costly compliance measures or to develop more complex monitoring systems. Similarly, our ACH sponsor banks have the right to audit our compliance with NACHAs rules and guidelines, and are given wide discretion to approve certain aspects of our business practices and terms of our agreements with ACH customers. Other Regulation We are subject to U.S. federal and state unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws, which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others we hold that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as account balances that are due to a software integration partner or customer following discontinuation of its relationship with us. The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 requires certain merchant acquiring entities and third-party settlement organizations to provide information returns for each calendar year with respect to payments made in settlement of electronic payment transactions and third-party payment network transactions occurring in that calendar year. Reportable transactions are also subject to backup withholding requirements. The foregoing is not an exhaustive list of the laws and regulations to which we are subject and the regulatory framework governing our business is changing continuously. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Intellectual Property Certain of our products and services are based on proprietary software and related payment systems solutions. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party non-disclosure, confidentiality, and other contractual arrangements to establish, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property rights in our technology, including with respect to our proprietary rights related to our products and services. In addition, we license technology from third parties that is integrated into some of our solutions. We own a number of registered service marks, including REPAY and REPAY REALTIME ELECTRONIC PAYMENTS, and we have other pending applications. We also own a number of domain names, including www.repay.com. For additional information regarding some of the risks relating to our intellectual property see Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had 243 employees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union and we have experienced no work stoppages. We consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information We maintain a website at www.repay.com, through which you may access our public filings free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the inclusion of our website address in this report is an inactive textual reference only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves significant risks. In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed above under Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, you should carefully consider the specific risks set forth herein. If any of these risks actually occur, it may materially harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As a result, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additionally, the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any document incorporated by 11 reference herein are not the only risks and uncertainti es that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may become material and adversely affect our business. Unless the context requires otherwise, we, us, our, Repay and the Company refer to the business of Repay Holdings Corporation and its subsidiaries. In the section of the Risk Factors entitled Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock, we, us and our refer only to Repay Holdings Corporation excluding, unless the context requires otherwise or as expressly stated, its subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Business The payment processing industry is highly competitive. Such competition could adversely affect the fees we receive, and as a result, our margins, business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for payment processing services is highly competitive. There are other payment processing service providers that have established a sizable market share in the merchant acquiring sector and service more customers than we do. Our growth will depend, in part, on a combination of the continued growth of the electronic payment market and our ability to increase our market share. Our payment and software solutions compete against many forms of financial services and payment systems, including electronic, mobile and integrated payment platforms as well as cash and checks. Our competitors include Open Edge (a division of Global Payments), ACI Worldwide, Inc., JetPay Corporation (a subsidiary of NCR Corporation), Electronic Payment Providers, Inc. (d.b.a. BillingTree), Paya, Inc., Paymentus Corporation and Zelis. There are also many traditional merchant acquirers, such as financial institutions, affiliates of financial institutions and well-established payment processing companies, in the payment processing industry, including Bank of America Merchant Services, Elavon, Inc. (a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp), Wells Fargo Merchant Services, Global Payments, Inc., WorldPay, Inc. (a subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.) and Total Systems Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of Global Payments, Inc.). These institutions have established, or may establish in the future, payment processing businesses that could target our existing and potential customers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, management and mark eting resources than we have. Accordingly, if these competitors target our business model and, in particular, the vertical markets that we serve, they may be able to offer more attractive fees or payment terms and advances to our customers and more attractive compensation to our software integration partners. They also may be able to offer and provide services and solutions that we do not offer. There are also a large number of small providers of processing services, including emerging technology and non-traditional payment processing companies, that provide various ranges of services to our existing and potential customers. This competition may effectively limit the prices we can charge, cause us to increase the compensation we pay to our software integration partners and require us to control costs aggressively in order to maintain acceptable profit margins. Further, if the use of payment cards other than Visa, MasterCard or Discover grows, or if there is an overall decrease in the use of debit cards as compared to other payment methods, our profitability could be reduced. Competition could also result in a loss of existing customers and greater difficulty attracting new customers, and could impact our relationships with software integration partners that integrate our services into the software used by our customers. Although we carefully monitor attrition levels of our existing customers, we cannot predict such attrition rates in the future. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized disclosure of merchant or consumer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, computer viruses, or otherwise, could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation, and damage our reputation. We are responsible for data security for us and for third parties with whom we partner, including with respect to rules and regulations established by the payment networks, such as Visa, MasterCard and Discover, and debit card networks. These third parties include our customers, software integration partners and other third-party service providers and agents. We and other third parties collect, process, store and/or transmit sensitive data, such as names, addresses, social security numbers, credit or debit card numbers, expiration dates, drivers license numbers and bank account numbers. We have ultimate liability to the payment networks and our sponsor banks that register us with the payment networks for our failure or the failure of other third parties with whom we contract to protect this data in accordance with payment network requirements. The loss, destruction or unauthorized modification of merchant or consumer data by us or our contracted third parties could result in significant fines, sanctions, proceedings or actions against us by the payment networks, governmental bodies, consumers or others. Threats may result from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or from accidental technological failure. For example, certain of our employees have access to sensitive data that could be used to commit 12 identity theft or fraud. Concerns about security increase when we transmit information electronically because such transmissions can be subj ect to attack, interception or loss. Also, computer viruses can be distributed and spread rapidly over the Internet and could infiltrate our systems or those of our contracted third parties. Denial of service or other attacks could be launched against us f or a variety of purposes, including interfering with our services or to create a diversion for other malicious activities. These types of actions and attacks and others could disrupt our delivery of services or make them unavailable. We and our contracted third parties could be subject to breaches of security by hackers. Our encryption of data and other protective measures may not prevent unauthorized access to or use of sensitive data. A systems breach may subject us to material losses or liability, including payment network fines, assessments and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit, debit or card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter merchants or other customers from using electronic payments generally and our services specifically, thus reducing our revenue. In addition, any such misuse or breach could cause us to incur costs to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits, and result in the imposition of material penalties and fines under state and federal laws or by the payment networks or limitations on our ability to process payment transactions on such payment networks. While we maintain cyber insurance coverage (which, in certain cases, is required pursuant to certain of our contractual commitments) that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of these risks, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Additionally, we may be required to increase our cyber insurance coverage pursuant to our contractual commitments entered into in the future. The costs to maintain or increase our cyber insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any human error, fraud, malice, accidental technological failure or attacks against us or our contracted third parties could hurt our reputation, force us to incur significant expenses in remediating the resulting impacts, expose us to uninsured liability, result in the loss of our sponsor bank relationships or our ability to participate in the payment networks, subject us to lawsuits, fines or sanctions, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business and/or materially impede our ability to conduct business. Although we generally require that our agreements with our software integration partners or service providers include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any merchant or consumer data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, we cannot guarantee that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized use, modification, destruction or disclosure of data or allow us to seek reimbursement from the contracted party. In addition, many of our customers are small and medium-sized businesses that may have limited competency regarding data security and handling requirements and may thus experience data breaches. Any unauthorized use, modification, destruction or disclosure of data could result in protracted and costly litigation, and the incurrence of significant losses by us. In addition, our agreements with our sponsor banks and our third-party payment processors (as well as payment network requirements) require us to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. Any failure to adequately comply with these protective measures could result in fees, penalties, litigation or termination of our sponsor bank agreements. Security breaches may be subject to scrutiny from governmental agencies such as the CFPB. See the risk factor entitled Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and other federal and state regulations may increase our compliance costs, limit our revenues and otherwise negatively affect our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid developments and changes in our industry, the use of our products and services could decline, causing a reduction in our revenues. The electronic payments market is subject to constant and significant changes. This market is characterized by rapid technological evolution, new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the entrance of new competitors, including products and services that enable card networks and banks to transact with consumers directly. To remain competitive, we continually pursue initiatives to develop new products and services to compete with these new market entrants. These projects carry risks, such as difficulty in determining market demand and timing for delivery, cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of customer acceptance, and some projects may require investment in non-revenue generating products or services that our software integration partners and customers expect to be included in our offerings. In addition, new products and offerings may not perform as intended or generate the business or revenue growth expected. 13 Additionally, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will increase our market penetration and enhance our technological capabilities , product offerings and distribution capabilities. Any delay in the delivery of new products and services or the failure to differentiate our products and services or to accurately predict and address market demand could increase the costs of our developme nt efforts and render our products and services less desirable or even obsolete to our customers and to our software integration partners. Any defects in our products and errors or delays in our processing of transactions could also increase costs of devel opment efforts and result in harm to our reputation or liability claims against us. Furthermore, even though the market for integrated payment processing products and services is evolving, we may develop too rapidly or not rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new products and services targeted at this market. Any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued growth and development of our payment processing services and solutions will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer behavior. For example, consumer behavior may change regarding the use of payment card transactions, including the relative increased use of cash, crypto-currencies, other emerging or alternative payment methods and payment card systems that we or our processing partners do not adequately support or that do not provide adequate commissions to parties like us. Any failure to timely integrate emerging payment methods into our software, to anticipate consumer behavior changes or to contract with processing partners that support such emerging payment technologies could cause us to lose traction among our customers or referral sources, including industry associations, resulting in a corresponding loss of revenue, if those methods become popular among end-users of their services. Our products and services are designed to process complex transactions and provide reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Our technology offerings must also integrate with a variety of network, hardware, mobile and software platforms and technologies, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our products and services to adapt to changes and innovation in these technologies. Any failure to deliver an effective, reliable and secure service or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. If we do not deliver a promised new product or service to our customers or software integration partners in a timely manner or the product or service does not perform as anticipated, our development efforts could result in increased costs and a loss in business, reducing our earnings and causing a loss of revenue. We also rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to, or production of, new technologies, including software and hardware. For example, we rely on our software integration partners to integrate our services and products into the software platforms being used by our customers. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop, adapt to or access technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Potential changes in the competitive landscape, including disintermediation from other participants in the payments value chain, could harm our business. We expect that the competitive landscape will continue to change and challenge us to respond to developments such as: Rapid and significant changes in technology and new and innovative payment methods and programs; Competitors, software integration partners, and other industry participants developing products that compete with or replace our value-added services and solutions; Participants in the financial services payments and technology industries creating new payment services that compete with us or merging, creating joint ventures or forming other business combinations that strengthen their existing business services; and New services and technologies that we develop being impacted by industry-wide solutions and standards related to migration to tokenization or other security-related technologies. Failure to compete effectively against or otherwise address any of these and other competitive threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 If our vertical markets do not increase their acceptance of electronic payments or if there are adverse developments in the electronic payment industry in general, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The vertical markets we primarily serve have traditionally not utilized electronic payments. If consumers and businesses in these vertical markets do not increase their use of cards as payment methods for their transactions or if the mix of payment methods changes in a way that is adverse to us, such developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes may also result in our customers seeking to charge their own customers additional fees for use of credit or debit cards which may result in such customers using other payment methods. Additionally, in recent years, increased incidents of security breaches have caused some consumers to lose confidence in the ability of businesses to protect their information, causing certain consumers to discontinue use of electronic payment methods. Security breaches could result in financial institutions canceling large numbers of credit and debit cards, or consumers or businesses electing to cancel their cards following such incidents. Potential customers or software integration partners may be reluctant to switch to, or develop a relationship with, a new merchant acquirer, which may adversely affect our growth. Many potential customers and software integration partners worry about potential disadvantages associated with switching merchant acquirers, such as a loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. For merchants that are potential customers and software providers that are potential software integration partners, switching to us from another merchant acquirer or integrating with us may be a significant undertaking. There can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential reluctance to change merchant acquirers or to initiate a relationship with us will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth and our business overall. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of payment networks and industry self-regulatory organizations, those payment networks or organizations could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations through our sponsor banks. We rely on sponsor banks and, in certain cases, third-party processors to access the payment card networks, such as Visa, MasterCard and Discover, that enable our ability to offer to our customers the acceptance of credit cards and debit cards, and we must pay fees for such services. To provide our merchant acquiring services, we are registered through our sponsor banks with the Visa, MasterCard and Discover networks as a service provider for member institutions. As such, we, our sponsor banks and many of our customers are subject to complex and evolving payment network rules. The payment networks routinely update and modify requirements applicable to merchant acquirers, including rules regulating data integrity, third-party relationships (such as those with respect to sponsor banks and independent sales organization (ISOs)), merchant chargeback standards and PCI DSS. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. If we or our sponsor banks fail to comply with the applicable rules and requirements of any of the payment networks, such payment network could suspend or terminate our registration. Further, our transaction processing capabilities, including with respect to settlement processes, could be delayed or otherwise disrupted, and recurring non-compliance could result in the payment networks seeking to fine us or suspend or terminate our registrations that allow us to process transactions on their networks, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business on its current scale. Under certain circumstances specified in the payment network rules, we may be required to submit to periodic audits, self-assessments or other assessments with regard to our compliance with the PCI DSS. Such audits or assessments may reveal that we have failed to comply with the PCI DSS. In addition, even if we comply with the PCI DSS, there is no assurance that we will be protected from a security breach. The termination of our registrations with the payment networks, or any changes in payment network or issuer rules that limit our ability to provide merchant acquiring services, could have an adverse effect on our payment processing volumes, revenues and operating costs. If we are unable to comply with the requirements applicable to our payment processing activities, the payment networks could no longer allow us to provide these solutions, which would render us unable to conduct our business. If we were precluded from processing Visa and MasterCard electronic payments, we would lose a substantial portion of our revenues. We are also subject to the operating rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA is a self-regulatory organization which administers and facilitates private-sector operating rules for ACH payments and defines the roles and responsibilities of financial institutions and other ACH network participants. The NACHA Rules and Operating Guidelines impose obligations on us and our partner financial institutions. These obligations include audit and oversight by the financial institutions and the imposition of mandatory corrective action, including termination, for serious 15 violations. If an audit or self-assessment under PCI DSS or NACHA identifies any deficiencies that we need to remediate, the remediation efforts may distract our management team and be expensive and time consuming. Changes in payment network rules or standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Payment network rules are established and changed from time to time by each payment network as they may determine in their sole discretion and with or without advance notice to their participants. The timelines imposed by the payment networks for expected compliance with new rules have historically been, and may continue to be, highly compressed, requiring us to quickly implement changes to our systems which increases the risk of non-compliance with new standards. In addition, the payment networks could make changes to interchange or other elements of the pricing structure of the merchant acquiring industry that would have a negative impact on our results of operations. We rely on sponsor banks in order to process electronic payment transactions, and such sponsor banks have substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are not able to secure new sponsor banks, we will not be able to conduct our business. Because we are not a bank, we are not eligible for membership in the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks, and are, therefore, unable to directly access these payment networks, which are required to process transactions. These networks operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a member bank in order to process electronic payment transactions. We are currently registered with payment networks through our sponsor banks. We primarily work with such sponsor banks directly to settle transactions, whereas many of our competitors are generally more dependent on third party super-ISOs. In general, our sponsor banks may terminate their agreements with us if we materially breach the agreements and do not cure the breach within an established cure period, if we enter bankruptcy or file for bankruptcy, or if applicable laws or regulations, including Visa and/or MasterCard regulations, change to prevent either the applicable bank or us from performing services under the agreement. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are unable to secure a replacement sponsor bank within the applicable wind down period, we will not be able to process electronic payment transactions. While we maintain relationships with multiple sponsor banks for flexibility in the processing of payment volume and in the pricing of our customers solutions, the loss of or termination of a relationship with a sponsor bank or a significant decrease in the amount of payment volume that a sponsor bank processes for us could reduce such flexibility and negatively affect our business. As a result, we may be unable to obtain favorable pricing for our customers, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain customers. To the extent the number of our sponsor banks decreases, we will become increasingly reliant on our remaining sponsor banks, which would materially adversely affect our business should our relationship with any of such remaining banks be terminated or otherwise disrupted. Furthermore, our agreements with our sponsor banks provide the sponsor banks with substantial discretion in approving certain elements of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and underwriting procedures for merchants. We cannot guarantee that our sponsor banks actions under these agreements will not be detrimental to us, nor can it provide assurance that any of our sponsor banks will not terminate their sponsorship of us in the future. Our sponsor banks have broad discretion to impose new business or operational requirements on us for purposes of compliance with payment network rules, which may materially adversely affect our business. If our sponsorship agreements are terminated and we are unable to secure another sponsor bank, we will not be able to offer Visa or MasterCard transactions or settle transactions which would likely cause us to terminate our operations. Our sponsor banks also provide or supplement funding and settlement services in connection with our card processing services. If our sponsorship agreements are terminated and we are unable to secure another sponsor bank or maintain relationships with other existing sponsor banks, we will not be able to process Visa and MasterCard transactions which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To acquire and retain customers, we depend on our software integration partners that integrate our services and solutions into software used by our customers. We rely heavily on the efforts of our software integration partners to ensure our services and solutions are properly integrated into the software that our customers use. Generally, our agreements with software integration partners are not exclusive and these partners retain the right to refer potential customers to other payment processors. 16 We may need to provide financial concessions to maintain relationships with current software integration partners or to attract potential software integration partners from our competitors. We have been required, and expect to be required in the future, to make concessions when renewing contracts with our software integration partners, and such co ncessions can have a material impact on our financial condition or operating performance. If our software integration partners focus more heavily on working with other payment processors, cease operations or become insolvent, we may be at risk of losing existing customers with whom these software integration partners have relationships. If we are unable to maintain our existing base of software integration partners or develop relationships with new software integration partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our efforts to form relationships with new software integration partners may be hindered to the extent they perceive that integrating with a new payment processor or switching to us from another payment processor is too costly or time-consuming. Many software providers choose to integrate with only a small number of payments processors due to the requisite time and cost of integrating their systems with a payment processors solutions. To the extent that a potential software integration partner has already integrated with several payments processors, it may be difficult for us to convince them to expand the number of payments processors they are integrated with and incur the expense and potential business disruption needed to successfully integrate our software with their systems. Further, to the extent our software integration partners engage in, or are alleged to have engaged in, behavior that involves intentional or negligent misrepresentation of pricing or other contractual terms to customers or potential customers related to our processing services or solutions, we may be named in legal proceedings in connection with such actions of our software integration partners. Our software integration partners are independent businesses and we have no control over their day-to-day business activities, including their customer marketing and solicitation practices. While in some cases we may have indemnification rights against our software integration partners for these activities, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully enforce those indemnification rights or that our software integration partners are adequately capitalized in a manner necessary to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us. If one or more judgments or settlements in any litigation or other investigation, or related defense and investigation costs, significantly exceed our insurance coverage and we are unable to enforce our indemnification rights against a software integration partner or partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability and other liability. We are potentially liable for losses caused by fraudulent card transactions or business fraud. Card fraud occurs when a merchants customer uses a stolen card (or a stolen card number in a card-not-present transaction) to purchase merchandise or services. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the merchant swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by its customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the merchant receives authorization for the transaction, the merchant may be liable for any loss arising from the transaction. In addition, consumers may dispute repayments on a loan by claiming it was unlawful under applicable law. Business fraud occurs when a business or organization, rather than a cardholder, opens a fraudulent merchant account and conducts fraudulent transactions or when a business, rather than a consumer (though sometimes working together with a consumer engaged in fraudulent activities), knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit card or card number to record a false sales transaction, intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction, or provides services in violation of applicable law. Business fraud also occurs when employees of businesses change the business demand deposit accounts to their personal bank account numbers, so that payments are improperly credited to the employees personal account. These types of fraud present potential liability for chargebacks associated with our customers processing transactions. If a billing dispute between a customer and a consumer is not ultimately resolved in favor of our customer, the disputed transaction is charged back to the customers bank and credited to the consumers bank. Anytime our customer is unable to satisfy a chargeback, we are responsible for that chargeback. We have a number of contractual protections and other means of recourse to mitigate those risks, including collateral or reserve accounts that we may require our customers to maintain for these types of contingencies. Nonetheless, if we are unable to collect the chargeback from the customers account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the customer refuses or is financially unable due to bankruptcy or other reasons to reimburse us for the chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholders bank. We have established systems and procedures to detect and reduce the impact of business fraud, but these measures may not be effective, and incidents of fraud could increase in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we believe our chargeback rate was less than 1% of payment volume. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Our processes to reduce fraud losses depend in part on our ability to restrict the deposit of processing funds while we investigate suspicious transactions. We could be sued by parties alleging that our restriction and investigation processes violate federal and state laws on consumer protection and unfair business practice. If we are unable to defend any such claim successfully, we could be required to restructure our anti-fraud processes in ways that would harm our business or pay substantial fines. As part of our program to reduce fraud losses, we may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to access certain processing deposits if those transactions or their account activity are identified by our anti-fraud models as suspicious. We could be sued by parties alleging that our restriction and investigation processes violate federal and state laws on consumer protection and unfair business practice. If we are unable to defend any such claim successfully, we could be required to restructure our anti-fraud processes in ways that could harm our business, and to pay substantial fines. Even if we are able to defend a claim successfully, the litigation could damage our reputation, consume substantial amounts of our managements time and attention, and require us to change our customer service and operations in ways that could increase our costs and decrease the effectiveness of our anti-fraud program. We receive savings related to favorable pricing on interchange and other payment network fees. To the extent we cannot maintain such savings and cannot pass along any corresponding increases in such fees to our customers, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We bear interchange, assessment, transaction and other fees set by the payment networks to the card issuing banks and the payment networks for each transaction we process. Under certain circumstances, the payment networks afford us preferential rates with respect to such fees, which helps us to control our operating costs. From time to time, the payment networks increase the interchange fees and other fees that they charge payment processors and the sponsor banks. At their sole discretion, our sponsor banks have the right to pass any increases in interchange and other fees on to us, and they have consistently done so in the past. We are generally permitted under the contracts into which we enter with our customers, and in the past have been able to, pass these fee increases along to our customers through corresponding increases in our processing fees. However, if we are unable to pass through these and other fees in the future, or if the payment networks decline to offer us preferential rates on such fees as compared to those charged to other payment processors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements on us, such as reserves in respect of certain customers for chargeback liabilities. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Our systems and those of our third-party providers may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our service, resulting in our inability to process payments, loss of business, increase in costs and exposure to liability. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of numerous systems, including our computer network systems, software, data centers and telecommunication networks, as well as the systems and services of our sponsor banks, the payment networks, third-party providers of processing services and other third parties. Our systems and operations, or those of our third-party providers, such as our provider of dial-up authorization services, or the payment networks themselves, could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, telecommunications failure, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, unauthorized entry, computer viruses or other malware, human error, natural disaster, power loss, acts of terrorism or sabotage, financial insolvency of such providers and similar events. These threats, and errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, system outages or other difficulties, could result in failure to process transactions, additional operating and development costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of revenue, customers and software integration partners, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities and fines and other sanctions imposed by payment networks. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. At present, our critical operational systems, such as our payment gateway, are fully redundant, while certain of our less critical systems are not. Therefore, certain aspects of our operations may be subject to interruption. Also, while we have disaster recovery policies and arrangements in place, they have not been tested under actual disasters or similar events. Maintaining and upgrading our system is costly and time-consuming, involves significant technical risk and may divert our resources from new features and products, and there can be no assurances that such systems will be effective. Frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices. 18 In addition, we are continually improving and upgrading our information systems and technologies. Implementation of new systems and technologies is complex, expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to timely and successfully implement new in formation systems and technologies or improvements or upgrades to existing information systems and technologies, or if such systems and technologies do not operate as intended, this could have an adverse impact on our business, internal controls (including internal controls over financial reporting), results of operations and financial condition. We rely on other service and technology providers. If such providers fail in or discontinue providing their services or technology to us, our ability to provide services to customers may be interrupted, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We rely on third parties to provide or supplement card processing services and for infrastructure hosting services. We also rely on third parties for specific software and hardware used in providing our products and services. The termination by our service or technology providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and, if we cannot find alternate providers quickly, may cause those customers to terminate their relationships with us. Our third-party processors, which provide us with front-end authorization services and certain other services, compete with us or may compete with us in the future in the vertical markets that we serve. There can be no assurance that these processors will maintain their relationships with us in the future or that they will refrain from competing directly with the solutions that we offer. If we are unable to renew our existing contracts with our most significant vendors, we might not be able to replace the related products or services at the same cost, which would negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, while we believe we would be able to locate alternative vendors to provide substantially similar services at comparable rates, or otherwise replicate such services internally, no assurance can be made that a change would not be disruptive to our business, which could potentially lead to a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability until resolved. We also rely in part on third parties for the development of and access to new technologies, and updates to existing products and services for which third parties provide ongoing support, which reliance increases the cost associated with new and existing product and service offerings. Failure by these third-party providers to devote an appropriate level of attention to our products and services could result in delays in introducing new products or services, or delays in resolving any issues with existing products or services for which third-party providers provide ongoing support. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles of our customers and software integration partners and the overall level of consumer and commercial spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payment industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer and commercial spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and changes in consumer purchasing habits, including natural disasters and health emergencies, including earthquakes, fires, power outages, typhoons, floods, pandemics or epidemics such as the coronavirus and manmade events such as civil unrest, labor disruption, international trade disputes, international conflicts, terrorism, wars and critical infrastructure attacks. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the United States, or increases in interest rates, could adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or aggregate volume of transactions made using electronic payments. For example, the recent COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak may impact the global economy or negatively affect various aspects of our business, including reductions in the amount of consumer spending and lending which could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If our customers make fewer sales of products and services using electronic payments, or consumers spend less money through electronic payments, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A weakening in the economy could have a negative impact on our customers, as well as their customers who purchase products and services using the payment processing systems to which we provide access, which could, in turn, negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the primary vertical markets that we serve, merchants are affected by macroeconomic conditions such as employment, personal income and consumer sentiment. If economic conditions deteriorate and our customers experience decreased demand for consumer lending (particularly in the automobile finance market as consumers cut down on discretionary spending), we would experience a decrease both in volume and number of transactions processed. In addition, a weakening in the economy could force merchants to close at higher than historical rates in part because many of them are not as well capitalized as larger organizations, which could expose us to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Further, credit card issuers 19 may reduce credit limits and become more selective in their card issuance practices. We also have a certain amount of fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, debt service and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. In addition, a significant portion of our customers are consumer lenders that provide personal loans and automotive loans to consumers that have varying degrees of credit risk. The regulatory environment that these customers operate in is very complex because applicable regulations are often enacted by multiple agencies in the state and federal governments. For example, the CFPB promulgated new rules applicable to such loans that could have an adverse effect on our customers businesses, and numerous state laws impose similar requirements. Such customers are also subject to negative public perceptions that their consumer lending activities constitute predatory or abusive lending to consumers, and concerns raised by consumer advocacy groups and government officials may lead to efforts to further regulate the industry in which many of our customers operate. The combination of these factors, and in particular the uncertainties associated with the regulatory environments in the various jurisdictions in which our customers operate, could materially adversely affect the business of our customers and may force our consumer lender customers to change their business models. As a result, we may need to be nimble and quickly respond to the evolving needs of the vertical markets that we serve. If the business of our customers is materially adversely affected by the uncertainties described above and if we or our customers fail to respond to such changes in the industry in a timely manner, or if there are significant changes in such vertical markets that we do not anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risks. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor, manage and remediate our risks. Some of our risk evaluation methods depend upon information provided by others and public information regarding markets, merchants or other matters that are otherwise inaccessible by us. In some cases, that information may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. Additionally, our risk detection system is subject to a high degree of false positive risks being detected, which makes it difficult for us to identify real risks in a timely manner. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that materially increase our costs and limit our ability to grow and may cause us to lose existing customers. We may not be able to continue to expand our share in our existing vertical markets or continue to expand into new vertical markets, which would inhibit our ability to grow and increase our profitability. Our future growth and profitability depend, in part, upon our continued expansion within the vertical markets in which we currently operate, the emergence of other vertical markets for electronic payments and our integrated solutions, and our ability to penetrate new vertical markets and our current software integration partners customer bases. As part of our strategy to expand into new vertical markets and increase our share in our existing vertical markets, we look for acquisition opportunities and partnerships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or partnership candidates in the future, and if we do identify them, they may not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. In addition, we recently began offering our products and services in Canada, a market in which we have no prior operating experience. As a result, our ability to grow and profitably service customers in Canada is uncertain and will require additional resources and controls, and we may encounter unanticipated challenges. Our expansion into new vertical markets also depends on our ability to adapt our existing technology or to develop new technologies to meet the particular needs of each new vertical market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services or distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new vertical markets. Penetrating these new vertical markets may also prove to be more challenging or costly or may take longer than we may anticipate. If we fail to expand into new vertical markets and increase our penetration into existing vertical markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions. A significant part of our growth strategy is to enter into new vertical markets through platform acquisitions of vertically-focused integrated payment and software solutions providers, to expand within our existing vertical markets through selective tuck-in acquisitions and to otherwise increase our presence in the payments processing market. From 2016 until the closing of the Business Combination, we completed a total of three platform acquisitions that enabled us to enter 20 new, or expand within existing, vertical markets. Since the closing o f the Business Combination, we have completed three additional acquisitions described in more detail below. Although we expect to continue to execute our acquisition strategy: we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or acquire additional assets on favorable terms; we may compete with others to acquire assets, which competition may increase, and any level of competition could result in decreased availability or increased prices for acquisition candidates; competing bidders for such acquisitions may be larger, better-funded organizations with more resources and easier access to capital; we may experience difficulty in anticipating the timing and availability of acquisition candidates; we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; potential acquisitions may be subject to regulatory approvals, which may cause delays and uncertainties; and we may not be able to generate cash necessary to execute our acquisition strategy. The occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our growth strategy. Our acquisitions subject us to a variety of risks that could harm our business. We review and complete selective acquisition opportunities. There can be no assurances that we will be able to complete suitable acquisitions for a variety of reasons, including the difficulties associated with the identification of and competition for acquisition targets, the need for regulatory approvals, the inability of the parties to agree to the structure or purchase price of the transaction and our inability to finance the transaction on commercially acceptable terms. In addition, any completed acquisition will subject us to a variety of other risks: we may need to allocate substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products, and management may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel or systems of the acquired business; the acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business relationships with existing or future customers or software integration partners; we may assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities, known and unknown; the acquisition may not meet our expectations of future financial performance; we may experience delays or reductions in realizing expected synergies or benefits; wet may incur substantial unanticipated costs or encounter other problems associated with the acquired business, including challenges associated with transfer of various data processing functions and connections to our systems and those of our third-party service providers; we may be unable to achieve our intended objectives for the transaction; and we may not be able to retain the key personnel, customers and suppliers of the acquired business. These challenges and costs and expenses may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The anticipated benefits from our recently announced acquisitions may not be realized on the expected timeline or at all. 21 On August 14, 2019, we announced our acquisition of TriSource. Since 2012, TriSource has been our primary third-party processor for back-end settlement solutions. We have no prior expe rience in providing back-end payment processing services, which represents TriSources primary capability. Accordingly, our lack of experience in the back-end processing market may result in operational difficulties, which could cause a delay or failure t o integrate and realize the benefits of the TriSource acquisition. On October 14, 2019, we announced our acquisition of APS. APS is an integrated payments provider focused on the business-to-business (or B2B) vertical. APS markets its products and services in the B2B vertical through key integrations with leading enterprise resource planning (or ERP) software platforms. The B2B vertical represents a new vertical market for us, and we do not have any prior experience with the key ERP platforms that are critical to the B2B vertical. Accordingly, our lack of experience in the B2B vertical and with the key ERP platforms may result in operational difficulties, which could cause a delay or failure to integrate and realize the benefits of the APS acquisition. On February 10, 2020, we announced our acquisition of Ventanex. Ventanex is an integrated payment solutions provider to consumer finance (including mortgage servicers) and B2B healthcare verticals. The mortgage loan servicer and B2B healthcare verticals represent a material expansion of our existing focus. Accordingly, our lack of experience in the mortgage and B2B healthcare verticals may result in operational difficulties, which could cause a delay or failure to integrate and realize the benefits of the Ventanex acquisition. We may also experience other challenges associated with operating these acquired businesses, including (1) difficulties and delays in integrating each acquired business, including with respect to implementing systems to prevent a material security breach of any internal systems or to successfully manage credit and fraud risks; (2) business disruptions from the acquisition that will harm us or the acquired business, including current plans and operations; (3) potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships resulting from the announcement or completion of each acquisition, including as it relates to our or the acquired business ability to successfully renew existing customer contracts on favorable terms or at all and obtain new customers; (4) retaining the acquired business customers, key personnel, vendors and other business relations; and (5) other unexpected costs or problems with integrating each acquired business. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness, react to changes in the economy or our industry and to raise additional capital to fund operations. In connection with the Ventanex acquisition, we entered into an amendment to our Credit Agreement (as amended, the Amended Credit Agreement) with Truist Bank and certain other lenders, upsizing the existing credit facility to $345.0 million. As of the closing of the Ventanex acquisition, approximately $255.0 million of aggregate principal amount was outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement, and such level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, such level of indebtedness could: make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations with respect to any indebtedness, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements or to carry out other aspects of our business; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements or to carry out other aspects of our business; limit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; and place us at a potential competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on LIBOR. LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, which may cause LIBOR to 22 disappear entirely after 2021 or to perform differently than in the past. While we expect that reasonable alternatives to LIBOR will be implemented prior to the 2021 target date, we cannot predict the consequences and timing of these development, and they could include an increase in our interest expense and/or reduction in our interest income. Future operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement, and we may be unable to comply with all covenants in the future. The Amended Credit Agreement imposes restrictions that could impede our ability to enter into certain corporate transactions, as well as increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry. These restrictions will limit our ability to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt; pay dividends on capital stock or redeem, repurchase, retire or otherwise acquire any capital stock; make certain payments, dividends, distributions or investments; and merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the Amended Credit Agreement contains certain negative covenants that restrict the incurrence of indebtedness unless certain incurrence-based financial covenant requirements are met. The restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interests of the business and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants in future periods will largely depend on our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default, which could result in the acceleration of our debt. In the event of an acceleration of our indebtedness, we could be forced to apply all available cash flows to repay such debt, which would reduce or eliminate distributions to us, which could also force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and our share price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. As a result of unidentified issues or factors outside of our control, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in reporting losses. Unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis conducted. Even though these charges may be non-cash items that would not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate leverage or other covenants to which we may be subject. Accordingly, our stockholders could suffer a reduction in the value of their shares from any such write-down or write-downs. Changes in tax laws or their judicial or administrative interpretations, or becoming subject to additional U.S., state or local taxes that cannot be passed through to our customers, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding, and ad valorem taxes. Changes in tax laws or their judicial or administrative interpretations could decrease the amount of revenues we receive, the value of any tax loss carryforwards and tax credits recorded on our balance sheet and the amount of our cash flow, and may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the applicable taxing authority which could increase our tax liabilities. Furthermore, companies in the payment processing industry, including us, may become subject to incremental taxation in various taxing jurisdictions. Taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay additional taxes and are unable to pass the tax expense through to our customers, our costs would increase and our net income would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. 23 We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology, which is critical to our success, particularly in our strategic verticals where we may offer proprietary software solutions to our customers. Third parties may challenge, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of service offerings or other competitive harm. Other parties, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology and duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property and, in such cases, we may not be able to assert our intellectual property rights against such parties. Further, our contractual arrangements may be subject to termination or renegotiation with unfavorable terms to us, and our third-party licensors may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency and other adverse business dynamics, any of which might affect our ability to use and exploit the products licensed to us by such third-party licensors. Additionally, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. We may have to litigate to enforce or determine the scope and enforceability of our intellectual property rights and know-how, which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, aspects of our business and our services rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or retain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to license or otherwise use third-party intellectual property could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation if our services and technology are alleged to infringe upon or otherwise violate a third partys proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, services or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement, breach or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights against us with respect to our products, services or technology. Any claim from third parties may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have been purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement or other violations and attempting to extract settlements from companies like us. Even if we believe that intellectual property related claims are without merit, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of time and attention of our management and employees. Claims of intellectual property infringement or violation also may require us to redesign affected products or services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products or services. Even if we have an agreement for indemnification against such costs, the indemnifying party, if any in such circumstance, may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. If we are unable to develop and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Prior to the Business Combination, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, Hawk Parent identified control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses in controls over financial reporting, which were remediated as of the year ended December 31, 2018. The material weaknesses previously identified and subsequently remediated were related to (i) insufficient segregation of duties, (ii) lack of formal documentation and the development of policies and procedures, and (iii) insufficient evidential matter to support the implementation of control activities, all of which were remediated as of the year ended December 31, 2018. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the issuers annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or deleted on a timely basis. As a private company not subject to the internal control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Hawk Parent had limited accounting and finance personnel and other resources with which to address its internal