Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References to the Company, us, our or we refer Thunder Bridge Acquisition, Ltd. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes included herein. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward- looking statements. When used in this Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward- looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Companys behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Overview The Company is a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company and incorporated for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. The Company intends to effectuate its initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of Public Offering and the Private Placement, the proceeds of the sale of our securities in connection with our initial Business Combination (pursuant to a the forward purchase contract the Company entered into with a member of the Sponsor or backstop agreements we may enter into in connection with our initial Business Combination), our shares, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional ordinary shares in a business combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B ordinary shares resulted in the issuance of Class A ordinary shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B ordinary shares; may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if preference shares are issued with rights senior to those afforded our ordinary shares; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A ordinary shares and/or warrants. Similarly, if the Company issues debt securities, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; the Companys immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; 14 the Companys inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; the Companys inability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares; using a substantial portion of the Companys cash flow to pay principal and interest on the Companys debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on the Companys ordinary shares if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on the Companys flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the Companys business and in the industry in which the Company operates; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on the Companys ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of the Companys strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to the Companys competitors who have less debt. As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, at June 30, 2018 we had $1,171,169 in cash outside of the Trust Account. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete our initial business combination will be successful. Results of Operations For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, we had a net loss of $4,588 and $4,648, and a loss from operations of $40,699 and $40,639, respectively. Our entire activity through June 30, 2018, consisted of formation and preparation for the Public Offering and since the Public Offering, the search for a target business with which to consummate an initial Business Combination, and as such, we had no operations and no significant operating expenses. Subsequent to the closing of the Public Offering on June 21, 2018, our normal operating costs included costs associated with our search for a target business, costs associated with our governance and public reporting, and state franchise taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the Public Offering, our only sources of liquidity were an initial purchase of Founder Shares for $25,000 by the Sponsor, and a total of $277,600 of loans and advances by the Sponsor. On June 21, 2018, we consummated our Public Offering in which we sold 22,500,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit generating gross proceeds of $225,000,000 before underwriting fees and expenses. The Sponsor and Cantor purchased 8,500,000 Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Placement Warrant in a Private Placement that occurred simultaneously with the Public Offering. On June 28, 2018, in connection with the underwriters exercise of their over-allotment option in full, we consummated the sale of an additional 3,300,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, and the Company consummated a private sale of an additional 330,000 private placement warrants to the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $330,000. In connection with the Public Offering, we incurred offering costs of $14,889,816 (including an underwriting fee of $4,500,000 and deferred underwriting commissions of $9,690,000). Other incurred offering costs consisted principally of formation and preparation fees related to the Public Offering. A total of $260,580,000 of the net proceeds from the Public Offering and the Private Placement were deposited in the Trust Account established for the benefit of our public stockholders. As of June 30, 2018, we have available to us $1,171,169 of cash on our balance sheet. We will use these funds primarily to and evaluate target businesses, perform business, legal, and accounting due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a business combination. 15 In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor or certain of the Companys officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If the Company completes its initial business combination, it would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that the initial business combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of the working capital held outside the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from its trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants issued to the Sponsor. We expect that we have sufficient resources subsequent to our Public Offering to fund our operations through December 21, 2019. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds following this offering in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating an initial Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing to complete our business combination if our forward purchase agreements are not consummated or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or entered into any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations At June 30, 2018, we did not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities. The Underwriter was paid a cash underwriting fee of 2% of gross proceeds of the Public Offering, excluding any amounts raised pursuant to the overallotment option, or $4,500,000. In addition, the Underwriter is entitled to aggregate deferred underwriting commissions of $9,690,000 consisting of (i) 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Public Offering, excluding any amounts raised pursuant to the overallotment option, and (ii) 5.5% of the gross proceeds of the Units sold in the Public Offering pursuant to the overallotment option. The deferred underwriting commissions will become payable to the Underwriter from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes an initial Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 16 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires the Companys management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Emerging Growth Company The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. Net Gain (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Basic loss per ordinary share is computed by dividing net income (loss) applicable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Consistent with FASB 480, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, as well as their pro rata share of undistributed trust earnings consistent with the two-class method, have been excluded from the calculation of loss per ordinary share for the three months ended June 30, 2018. Such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of trust earnings. Diluted loss per share includes the incremental number of shares of ordinary shares to be issued to settle warrants, as calculated using the treasury method. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company did not have any dilutive warrants, securities or other contracts that could potentially, be exercised or converted into ordinary shares. As a result, diluted loss per ordinary share is the same as basic loss per ordinary share for all periods presented. 17 A reconciliation of net loss per ordinary share as adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to ordinary shares subject to redemption is as follows: For the three months ended June 30, 2018 For the six months ended June 30, 2018 Net loss $ (4,588 ) $ (4,648 ) Less: Income attributable to ordinary shares subject to possible redemption (36,051 ) (36,051 ) Net loss available to ordinary shares $ (40,639 ) $ (40,699 ) Basic and diluted weighted average number of shares 6,596,299 6,523,554 Basic and diluted loss available to ordinary shares $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Fair Value of Financial Instruments The fair value of the Companys assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, approximates the carrying amounts represented in the balance sheet primarily due to their short term nature. Offering Cost The Company complies with the requirements of FASB ASC 340-10-S99-1 and SEC Staff Bulletin 5A Expenses of Offering. Offering costs were $14,889,816 (including underwriting commission of $4,500,000 and deferred underwriting commissions of $9,690,000), consisting principally of costs incurred in connection with formation and preparation for the Public Offering. These offering costs were charged to additional paid in capital upon closing of the Public Offering. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740). ASC 740 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax loss and tax credit carry forwards. ASC 740 additionally requires a valuation allowance to be established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. ASC 740 also clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits as of June 30, 2018. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. There is currently no taxation imposed on income by the Government of the Cayman Islands. 18 Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption The Company accounts for its ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as stockholders equity. The Companys ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the Companys control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at June 30, 2018, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of the Companys balance sheet. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys financial statements.