Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We commenced operations in the software development and professional services business during 1990. The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and assumptions. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience of operations and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies, among others, will affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes In determining the carrying value of the Companys net deferred income tax assets, the Company must assess the likelihood of sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions, to realize the benefit of these assets. If these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may record a reduction in the valuation allowance, resulting in an income tax benefit in the Companys statements of operations. Management evaluates whether or not to realize the deferred income tax assets and assesses the valuation allowance quarterly. Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Asset Valuations Goodwill is assigned to specific reporting units and is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually or more frequently upon the occurrence of an event or when circumstances indicate that a reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value. Management reviews the long-lived tangible and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Management evaluates, at each balance sheet date, whether events and circumstances have occurred which indicate possible impairment. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired when the anticipated cumulative undiscounted cash flows of the related asset or group of assets is less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair market value of the long-lived asset. Economic useful lives of long-lived assets are assessed and adjusted as circumstances dictate. -16- Table of Contents Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when all of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the service has been provided to the customer, (iii) the collection of our fees is probable, and (iv) the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. We recognize subscription, hosting, premium support, and maintenance revenue ratably over the length of the agreement beginning on the commencement dates of each agreement or when revenue recognition conditions are satisfied. Revenue from license and professional services agreements are recognized as delivered. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Agreements with multiple deliverables such as subscriptions, support, and professional services, are accounted for separately if the deliverables have standalone value upon delivery. Subscription services have standalone value as the services are typically sold separately. When considering whether professional services have standalone value, the Company considers the following factors: (i) availability of services from other vendors, (ii) the nature and timing of professional services, and (iii) sales of similar services sold separately. Multiple deliverable arrangements are separated into units of accounting and the total contract consideration is allocated to each unit based on relative selling prices. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The Company records compensation expense on a straight-line basis. The fair value of options granted are estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions for the risk-free interest rate, expected life, volatility, dividend yield and forfeiture rate.