Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We commenced operations in the software development and professional services business during 1990. The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and assumptions. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience of operations and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies, among others, will affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. -19- Table of Contents Income Taxes In determining the carrying value of the Companys net deferred income tax assets, the Company must assess the likelihood of sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions, to realize the benefit of these assets. If these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may record a reduction in the valuation allowance, resulting in an income tax benefit in the Companys statements of operations. Management evaluates whether or not to realize the deferred income tax assets and assesses the valuation allowance quarterly. Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Asset Valuations Goodwill and other long-lived assets assigned to specific reporting units are reviewed for possible impairment at least annually or more frequently upon the occurrence of an event or when circumstances indicate that a reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value. Management reviews the long-lived tangible and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Management evaluates, at each balance sheet date, whether events and circumstances have occurred which indicate possible impairment. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired when the anticipated cumulative undiscounted cash flows of the related asset or group of assets is less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair market value of the long-lived asset. Economic useful lives of long-lived assets are assessed and adjusted as circumstances dictate. Revenue Recognition Effective July 1, 2018, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Update 2014-09: Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , and its related amendments ( ASU 2014-09 ). ASU 2014-09 provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized and enhances certain disclosure around the nature, timing, amount and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customers. ASU 2014-09 represents a change in the accounting model utilized for the recognition of revenue and certain expense arising from contracts with customers. We adopted ASU 2014-09 using a modified retrospective approach and, accordingly, revenue and expense totals for all periods before July 1, 2018 reflect those previously reported under the prior accounting model and have not been restated. See Note 2 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for a full description of the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards on our financial statements. Following the adoption of this guidance, the revenue recognition for our sales arrangements remained materially consistent with our historical practice and there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to our critical accounting policies and estimates included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. Share-Based Compensation The Company accounts for its share-based compensation to employees and non-employees in accordance with FASB ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation . Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the requisite service or vesting period. Leases Effective July 1, 2019, the Company adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, " Leases (Topic 842)" (" ASU 2016-02 "), as discussed further in Note 5. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Report have been updated to comply with this new standard with results for reporting periods beginning after July 1, 2019 presented under ASU 2016-02, while prior period amounts and disclosures are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period. -20- Table of Contents