Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Statements made herein are as of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake, and specifically disclaim any obligation, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. PART I ITEM I. BUS IN ESS Overview Park City Group, Inc. (the Company ) is a Software-as-a-Service ( SaaS ) provider that brings unique visibility to the consumer goods supply chain, delivering actionable information that ensures product is on the shelf when the consumer expects it. Our service increases our customers sales and profitability while enabling lower inventory levels for both retailers and their suppliers. Our services are delivered principally though proprietary software products designed, developed, marketed and supported by the Company. These products are designed to facilitate improved business processes among all key constituents in the supply chain, starting with the retailer and moving back to suppliers and eventually raw material providers. In addition, the Company has built a consulting practice for business process improvement that centers around the Companys proprietary software products and through establishment of a neutral and trusted third party relationship between retailers and suppliers. The principal markets for the Company's products are multi-store retail and convenience store chains, branded food manufacturers, suppliers and distributors and manufacturing companies. Historically, the Company offered applications and related maintenance contracts to new customers for a one-time, non-recurring up front license fee. Although not completely abandoning the license fee and maintenance model, since the acquisition of Prescient Applied Intelligence, Inc. ( Prescient ) in January 2009, the Company has focused its strategic initiatives and resources to marketing and selling prospective customers a subscription for its product offerings. In support of this strategic shift toward a subscription-based model, the Company has scaled its contracting process, streamlined its customer on-boarding and implemented a financial package that integrates multiple systems in an automated fashion. As a result, subscription based revenue has grown from $203,000 for the 2008 fiscal year to approximately $10.9 million in the year ended June 30, 2015. During that same period our revenue has transitioned from 6% subscription revenue and 94% license and other revenue, to 80% subscription revenue and 20% license and other revenue. The Company is incorporated in the state of Nevada. The Company has three subsidiaries: PC Group, Inc. (formerly, Park City Group, Inc.), a Utah corporation (98.76% owned), Park City Group, Inc. (formerly, Prescient Applied Intelligence, Inc.), a Delaware corporation (100% owned) and ReposiTrak, Inc., a Utah corporation (100% owned). All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Our principal executive offices of the Company are located at 299 South Main Street, Suite 2370, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Our telephone number is (435) 645-2000. Our website address is http://www.parkcitygroup.com . -1- Table of Contents Recent Developments Acquisition of ReposiTrak During the year ended June 30, 2015, the Company entered into agreements with each of the stockholders of ReposiTrak, Inc. ( ReposiTrak ), including Leavitt Partners, LP and LP Special Asset 4, LLC, to acquire all of the outstanding capital stock of ReposiTrak (the ReposiTrak Shares ) in exchange for shares of the Companys common stock (the ReposiTrak Acquisition ). On June 30, 2015, the Company completed the ReposiTrak Acquisition and issued an aggregate total of 873,438 shares of its common stock in exchange for the ReposiTrak Shares. Immediately following the completion of the ReposiTrak Acquisition, ReposiTrak became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Registered Direct Offering On April 15, 2015, the Company offered and sold 572,500 shares of its common stock in a registered direct offering at a price of $12.50 per share. The Company received total net proceeds from the registered direct offering of approximately $6.7 million after deducting placement agent fees and other offering expenses. Creation of Series B-1 Preferred On March 31, 2015, the Company filed with the Nevada Secretary of State the Certificate of Designation of the Relative Rights, Powers and Preferences of the Series B-1 Preferred Stock (the Series B-1 Certificate of Designation ) in order to designate 300,000 shares of the Companys preferred stock as non-voting, non-convertible shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock ( Series B-1 Preferred ). Each share of Series B-1 Preferred accrued dividends at a rate of 7% per annum if paid by the Company in cash, and 9% per annum if paid by the Company in additional shares of Series B-1 Preferred. Series B Restructuring On February 4, 2015, holders of the Companys Series B Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series B Preferred ), consisting of the Companys Chief Executive Officer, his spouse, and a director (the Holders ), entered into a restructuring agreement (the Restructuring Agreement ), pursuant to which the Holders consented to the filing of an amendment (the Series B Amendment ) to the Certificate of Designation of the Relative Rights, Powers and Preference of the Series B Preferred (the Series B Certificate of Designation ), pursuant to which (i) the rate at which the Series B Preferred accrues dividends was lowered to 7% per annum if paid by the Company in cash, or 9% if paid by the Company in PIK Shares (as defined below), (ii) the Company may now elect to pay accrued dividends on outstanding shares of Series B Preferred in either cash or by the issuance of additional shares of Series B Preferred ( PIK Shares ), (iii) the conversion feature of the Series B Preferred was eliminated, and (iv) the number of shares of the Company's preferred stock designated as Series B Preferred was increased from 600,000 to 900,000 shares (the Series B Restructuring ). In consideration for the Series B Restructuring, the Company issued to the Holders: (y) an aggregate of 214,198 additional shares of Series B Preferred, which shares had a stated value equal to the amount that, but for the Series B Restructuring, would have been paid to the Holders as dividends over the next five years ( Additional Shares ), and (z) five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,085,068 shares of common stock for $4.00 per share ( Series B Warrants ), an amount and per share purchase price equal to what the Holders would otherwise be entitled to receive upon conversion of their shares of Series B Preferred ( Warrant Shares ). The terms of the Series B Restructuring were amended on March 31, 2015 as follows: (i) the Series B Certificate of Designation was further amended (the Second Series B Amendment ) to (x) reduce the number of shares of the Companys preferred stock designated thereunder from 900,000 to 600,000, which number was subsequently increased to 700,000, (y) require that, should the Company pay dividends on the Series B Preferred in PIK Shares, shares Series B-1 Preferred will be issued, rather than shares of Series B Preferred, and (z) in the event any Holder elects to exercise a Series B Warrant, one share of Series B Preferred will be automatically converted into one share of Series B-1 Preferred for every 2.5 Warrant Shares received by such Holder; and (ii) the Restructuring Agreement was amended to substitute the Additional Shares for shares of Series B-1 Preferred. The Second Series B Amendment was filed with the Nevada Secretary of State on March 31, 2015. Private Placement On January 26, 2015, we accepted subscription agreements from certain accredited investors, including certain members of the Company's Board of Directors, to purchase an aggregate total of 95,302 shares of the Company's common stock for $9.48 per share, and five year warrants to purchase an aggregate total of 23,737 shares of common stock for $10.00 per share. The Company received gross proceeds of approximately $900,000 from this private placement. -2- Table of Contents Company History The Companys technology has its genesis in the operations of Mrs. Fields Cookies co-founded by Randall K. Fields, the Companys Chief Executive Officer. The Company began operations utilizing patented computer software and profit optimization consulting services to help its retail clients reduce their inventory and labor cost - the two largest controllable expenses in the retail industry. Because the product concepts originated in the environment of actual multi-unit retail chain ownership, the products are strongly oriented to an operations bottom line results. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 8, 1964 as Infotec, Inc. From June 20, 1999 to approximately June 12, 2001, it was known as Amerinet Group.com, Inc. In 2001, the name was changed from Amerinet Group.com to Fields Technologies, Inc. On June 13, 2001, the Company entered into a Reorganization Agreement with Randall K. Fields and Riverview Financial Corporation whereby it acquired substantially all of the outstanding stock of Park City Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which became a 98.67% owned subsidiary. On July 25, 2002, Fields Technologies, Inc. changed its name from Fields Technologies, Inc. to Park City Group, Inc. through a merger with Park City Group, Inc., a Nevada corporation, which was organized for that purpose and was also the surviving entity in the merger. As a result, both the parent-holding company (Nevada) and its operating subsidiary (Delaware) were named Park City Group, Inc. In February 2014, Park City Group, Inc. (Delaware) was domesticated in Utah and changed its name to PC Group, Inc. Park City Group, Inc. (Nevada) has no business operations separate from the operations conducted through its subsidiaries, including ReposiTrak, Inc. and Park City Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation , (formerly Prescient Applied Intelligence, Inc. ( Prescient )). On January 13, 2009, the Company acquired 100% of Prescient, a leading provider of on-demand solutions for the retail marketplace, including both retailers and suppliers. Its solutions capture information at the point of sale, provide greater visibility into real-time demand and turn data into actionable information across the entire supply chain. In February 2014, Prescient changed its name to Park City Group, Inc. The Companys condensed consolidated financial statements contain the results of operations of Park City Group, Inc. (Delaware). Operations are conducted through this subsidiary. ReposiTrak, Inc. was founded by Leavitt Partners. It was originally incorporated as Global Supply Chain Systems, Inc. on May 17, 2012 and on November 8, 2012 changed its name to ReposiTrak, Inc. ( ReposiTrak ). ReposiTrak provides food retailers and suppliers with a robust solution to help protect their brands and remain in compliance with rapidly evolving regulations in the Food Safety Modernization Act. Powered by Park City Groups technology, this internet-based solution, also called ReposiTrak TM , enables all participants in the farm-to-table supply chain to easily manage records management and regulatory compliance. Additionally, ReposiTrak enables traceability as products and their ingredients move between trading partners. ReposiTrak, Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of Park City Group, Inc. on June 30, 2015. Software-as-a-Service Delivery Model Historically, the Company offered applications and related maintenance contracts to new customers for a one-time, non-recurring up front license fee and provided an option for annually renewing their maintenance agreements. As a result of the Prescient merger and Prescients reliance on subscription based revenue, and the Company began shifting away from offering its solutions for a one-time licensing fee and now principally offers prospective customers monthly subscription based licensing of its products. Although not completely abandoning the license fee and maintenance model, the Company continues to focus its strategic initiatives on increasing the number of retailers, suppliers and manufacturers that use its software on a subscription basis. Our on-demand, software-as-a-service delivery model enables our proprietary software solutions to be implemented, accessed and used by our customers remotely. Our solutions are hosted and maintained by us, thus significantly reducing costs by eliminating for our customers the time, risk and headcount associated with installing and maintaining applications within their own information technology infrastructures. As a result, we believe our solutions require significantly less capital to build and require less initial investment in third-party software, hardware and implementation services, and have lower ongoing support costs versus traditional enterprise software. The software-as-a-service (" SaaS ") model also allows for advanced information technology infrastructure management, security, disaster recovery and other best practices. Since we manage updates and upgrades to our solution on behalf of our customers, we are able to implement improvements to our solutions in a more rapid and uniform way, enabling us to take advantage of operational efficiencies. -3- Table of Contents Target Industries Overview The Company develops and offers its software to supermarkets, convenience stores and other retailers. As a result of the acquisition of Prescient, we have expanded our offerings to include supply chain solutions focused on large manufacturers, distributors and suppliers in the consumer products industry. The Company also provides professional consulting services targeting implementation, assessments, profit optimization and support functions for its application and related products. Supermarkets The supermarket industry is under increased competitive pressure from mass market retailers such as Wal-Mart, Costco, Target, and other channels, including extreme value (dollar stores), limited assortment (ALDI/Save-a-lot), and convenience (Sheetz, 7/11) stores. One of the strategies traditional supermarkets are implementing is to improve the demographic mix of products to match the unique needs of those consumers who shop at individual stores. Mix is most difficult to manage for those products that are delivered by Direct Store Delivery ( DSD ) suppliers such as carbonated beverages, bread, dairy, greeting cards, magazines and salty snacks. The Companys software provides newfound visibility to the retailer as to specific item deliveries and in-stock status with item and category productivity. In addition, supermarkets are growing sales and consumer loyalty by developing and distributing their own brand or private label for all key categories within their stores. This proliferation of new items is creating a new set of challenges for both retailers and suppliers as they battle to find space to accommodate the new private label items at the expense of the incumbent or national brand supplier. The Companys software and consulting services provide visibility tools to facilitate the decision making process by providing a shared and trusted view to information that helps the parties optimize item selection and shelf presence. Furthermore, supermarkets are under pressure to increase the quantity and quality of their perishable offerings. Perishable departments, such as bakery, meat and seafood, dairy, and deli historically are loosely managed, but now are a focus for profitability improvement. The Companys software and consulting services and change management resources are designed to address this specific business problem, increasing the profitability of perishable products at the department and store level. Convenience Stores For convenience stores, recent trends of contracting gasoline sales margins and declining tobacco sales further increases the need for improved cost controls, focus on product mix and better decision support. To intensify the focus on these issues, other industry segments such as value retailers and grocery stores are cutting into the convenience store stronghold by offering gasoline, a product that once was almost solely offered by convenience store retailers. In response to declining gasoline sales and profits, the convenience store industry is pushing into fresh food as an avenue of increasing sales and profitability. Only the most progressive convenience store operations have automated systems to help store managers, leaving the majority of the operators without any technology to ease their administrative and operational burdens. Suppliers As stated above, supermarkets and convenience stores are increasingly focused on product and margin mix, improving sales through reduced out of stocks and increasing collaboration with their suppliers. Suppliers are increasingly pressured by retailers to provide consumer insights and innovative products that differentiate both the supplier and retailer while providing economic incentives or assistance. The Companys solutions enable suppliers to work with their retail partners to align their objectives of increasing sales through expanded distribution of their product offering and the objectives of the retailer to increase sales, reduce inventory carrying risk and minimizing out of stocks. Additionally, the Company is able to share the retailer scan sales data with the supplier to assist them in improving forecasts and production planning by leveraging the most reliable demand signal in daily sales by store and item. Specialty Retailers Specialty retailers and their suppliers are faced with many of the same replenishment and forecasting challenges as other retailers, with the added complexity of managing an ever increasing imported versus domestic manufacturing model. The added manufacturing and transportation lead-time puts an increased premium on both accurate and timely forecasting. The Company has developed a suite of applications to facilitate collaborative analysis and forecasting. The specialty retailers are faced with strong competition for qualified managers and staff. Managers are time-constrained due to increased labor and inventory demands, margins are increasingly tight due to higher labor and lease costs and customer satisfaction demands are higher than ever before. The Company has developed a range of applications that enable managers in specialty retail to improve their labor scheduling efficiency and reduce their total paperwork and administrative workload. -4- Table of Contents Benefits of our Solutions and Services Our Supply Chain services bring unique visibility to the consumer goods supply chain, delivering actionable information that ensures product is on the shelf when the consumer expects it. Our service increases our customers sales and profitability while enabling lower inventory levels for both retailers and their suppliers. Key advantages of our solutions include: synchronizing retailers and suppliers so they can actually exchange information; aligning their financial interests with payment and invoicing protocols and systems; enlisting brain power of suppliers to help retailers manage complex businesses; providing information to each side to identify and fix out of stocks and overstocks; providing forecasting technology to improve store orders; providing forecasting to help suppliers replenish retailer warehouses; providing systems for suppliers to actually manage inventory flow to retailers; and helping suppliers with overall demand planning and line sequencing. Ultimately, the Companys products and services come together to create a true partnership between retailers and suppliers. Solutions and Services Solutions The Companys primary solutions are Scan Based Trading, ScoreTracker, Vendor Managed Inventory, Store Level Replenishment, Enterprise Supply Chain Planning Suite, Fresh Market Manager and ActionManager, all of which are designed to aid the retailer and supplier with managing inventory, product mix and labor while improving sales through reduced out of stocks by improving visibility and forecasting. Scan Based Trading ( SBT ) . Our SBT solution eliminates supply chain inefficiencies and helps retailers and suppliers get product to the store shelves more quickly, efficiently and profitably. SBT is an advanced commerce practice where the supplier retains ownership of the inventory until it scans at the cash register. Once the retailer and supplier have agreed to begin an SBT relationship, the first step is item and price authorization. This process matches retailer and supplier product data to eliminate invoice discrepancies at the point of sale. Our SBT system receives the scan sales data and maintains it in a repository to ensure that product movement data is available to all members of the trading community. Implementation creates increased demand visibility and improved forecast accuracy. Our SBT solution is offered as a hosted service, so implementation is immediate and always available. ScoreTracker. Our ScoreTracker solution gives retailers and suppliers a clear view into critical aspects of their supply chain operations so that they can better serve the consumer. This visibility solution provides analysis of scan sales data by store, by day and by category. Retailers and suppliers better understand what is selling, the velocity at which a product is moving and how profitable it is. In addition, our solution helps analyze shrink and how to use that information to prevent out of stocks. This tool is provided to retailers and suppliers who provide additional data inputs valuable to operating their business such as routes, returns and credits. The ScoreTracker solution enables a true collaborative view to the Key Performance Indicators ( KPIs ) for both retailers and suppliers. The Company is a neutral third party between the trading partners and the retailer and ScoreTracker delivers a trusted view to performance and actionable insights with respect to improving sales and item performance and reducing operational and shrink costs. Vendor-Managed Inventory ( VMI ). VMI programs are gaining in popularity because suppliers have come to realize that VMI offers the opportunity to better align themselves with their trading partners and add value to those relationships. Our VMI solution provides collaborative tools that increase supply chain efficiencies, lower inventory and enhance trading partner relationships. The solution is pre-mapped to the specific requirements of each trading partner for the transfer of electronic data directly into our system. This enables suppliers to analyze retailer-supplied demand information, automatically generate orders for each customer, set inventory policy at the retailers distribution center and monitor on-going inventory levels, determine which items need to be replenished, and how to ship them most cost-effectively. Our VMI suite has the flexibility and functionality to scale to accommodate new trading partners. Our solution delivers real value for suppliers through fewer out-of-stocks, increased inventory turns, and increased customer satisfaction and loyalty. -5- Table of Contents Store Level Replenishment ( SLR ) . Many retailers are shifting the responsibility of replenishing product at the store shelf onto the suppliers who bring that product into the store. Avoiding overstocks and understocks, particularly with highly promoted products such as ice cream or bread, has been a challenge for DSD suppliers. Our on-demand SLR solution provides these suppliers visibility into store level movement and activity, and generates replenishment orders based on point of sale data. Suppliers using this solution are able to optimize store-level demand forecasting and replenishment, resulting in fewer out of stocks and lost sales. Retailers benefit by having product on the shelf. Enterprise Supply Chain Planning Suite ( ESCP ) . Our ESCP suite includes a solution to help users analyze point of service data and other demand signals to gain insight into customer demand. Suppliers have visibility into historical data seasonal events, promotions and buying trends to facilitate accurate forecasting. Our software assesses how inventory will be impacted, then calculates recommended stocking levels, considers service level goals and develops a time-phased replenishment plan. The solution brings demand data into one place where users can easily manage the complex sets of data and parameters that impact their businesses, including seasonal builds, desired service levels, and manufacturing constraints. ESCP considers consumption rates and inventory levels and automatically calculates time-phase safety stocks and replenishment quantities while being extremely flexible and can be configured to meet the needs of any companys supply chain processes. The Company also offers a variety of other solutions that address the unique needs of its customers. Fresh Market Manager. Addressing the inventory issues that plague todays retailers, Fresh Market Manager is a suite of software product applications designed to help manage perishable food departments including bakery, deli, seafood, produce, meat, home meal replacement, dairy, frozen food, and floral. Fresh Market Manager helps identify true cost of goods and provides accurate and actionable profitability data on a corporate, regional, store-by-store and/or item-by-item basis. Fresh Market Manager also produces hour-by-hour forecasts, production plans, perpetual inventory and placed/received orders. Fresh Market Manager automates the majority of the planning, forecasting, ordering and administrative functions associated with fresh merchandise or products. ActionManager. The second most important cost element typically facing todays retailers is labor. ActionManager addresses labor needs by providing a suite of solutions that forecast labor demand, schedules staff resources and provides store managers with the necessary tools to keep labor costs under control while improving customer service, satisfaction, and sales. ActionManager applications provide an automated method for managers to plan, schedule and administer many administrative tasks including new hire, time and attendance paperwork. In addition to automating most administrative processes, ActionManager provides the local manager with a dashboard view of the business. ActionManager also has extensive reporting capabilities for corporate, field and store-level management to enable improved decision support. ReposiTrak . ReposiTrak provides a document management service that provides visibility to insurance and indemnification documents, reports, audits, etc. for every facility in the connected supply chain, all in a single location through its web-based application. It also provides a targeted solution for improving supply chain visibility for food and drug safety. ResposiTraks solution, similarly called ReposiTrak, is powered by the Companys technology and was developed in response to the passage of the Food Safety and Modernization Act in January of 2012. ReposiTrak enables grocery, supermarkets, packaged goods manufacturers, food processing facilities, drug stores and drug manufacturers, as well as logistics partners, to track and trace products and components to products throughout the food, drug and dietary supplement supply chains. In the event of a product recall, the solution quickly identifies the supply chain path taken by the recalled product or product component, and allows for the removal of affected products in a matter of minutes, rather than weeks. Additionally, ReposiTrak reduces risk of further contamination in the supply chain by identifying backward chaining sources and forward chaining recipients of affected products in near real time. Services Business Analytics . Park City Groups Business Analytics Group offers business-consulting services to suppliers and retailers in the grocery, convenience store and specialty retail industries. The Business Analytics Group mines store-level scan data to develop item-specific recommendations to improve customer satisfaction and profitability. Professional Services. Our Professional Services Group provides consulting services to ensure that our solutions are seamlessly integrated into our customers business processes as quickly and efficiently as possible. In addition to implementation of our solutions, we have developed a portfolio of service offerings designed to deliver unparalleled performance throughout the lifecycle of the customers solution. Specific services are tailored to each customer and include the following: implementation, business optimization, technical services, education, business process outsourcing and advisory services. The intent of such services is to support our clients business operations by enabling them to maximize the speed, effectiveness and overall value of our offerings. We believe the ability to create value for our customers is critical to our long-term success. -6- Table of Contents Technology, Development and Operations Product Development The products sold by the Company are subject to rapid and continual technological change. Products available from the Company, as well as from its competitors, increasingly offer a wider range of features and capabilities. The Company believes that in order to compete effectively in its selected markets, it must provide compatible systems incorporating new technologies at competitive prices. In order to achieve this, the Company has made a substantial commitment to on-going development. Our product development strategy is focused on creating common technology elements that can be leveraged in applications across our core markets. Except for its supply chain application, which is based on a proprietary architecture, the Companys software architecture is based on open platforms and is modular, thereby allowing it to be phased into a customers operations. In order to remain competitive, we are currently designing, coding and testing a number of new products and developing expanded functionality of our current products. Operations We currently serve our customers from a third-party data center hosting facility. Along with the Companys Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements ( SSAE ) No. 16 certification Service Organization Control ( SOC2 ), the third-party facility is also a SSAE No. 16 SOC2 certified location and is secured by around-the-clock guards, biometric screening and escort-controlled access, and is supported by on-site backup generators in the event of a power failure. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, all of our customers data is currently backed-up in near real-time. This strategy is designed to protect our customers data and ensure service continuity in the event of a major disaster. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. Customers We sell to business of all sizes. Our customers primarily include food related consumer goods retailers, suppliers and manufacturers. However, the Company is opportunistic and will offer its supply chain solutions to non-food consumer goods related companies as well. None of our retailing or supplier customers accounted for more than 10% percent of our revenue in fiscal 2015 or 2014. Prior to the ReposiTrak Acquisition, our contractual relationship with ReposiTrak generated approximately $3.0 million in subscription and management fees during 2015, which amount constituted approximately 21% of the Companys total revenue in 2015. Sales, Marketing and Customer Support Sales and Marketing Through a focused and dedicated sales effort designed to address the requirements of each of its software and service solutions, we believe our sales force is positioned to understand our customers businesses, trends in the marketplace, competitive products and opportunities for new product development. Our deep industry knowledge enables the Company to take a consultative approach in working with our prospects and customers. Our sales personnel focus on selling our technology solutions to major customers, both domestically and internationally. To date, our primary marketing objectives have been to increase awareness of our technology solutions, generate sales leads and develop new customer relationships. In addition, the sales effort has been directed toward developing existing customers by cross-selling Prescient solutions to legacy Park City Group accounts as well as introducing Park City Group solutions to legacy Prescient customers. To this end, we attend industry trade shows, conduct direct marketing programs, publish industry trade articles and white papers, participate in interviews and selectively advertise in industry publications. Customer Support Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries from our customers relating to how to use our products and is available to customers by telephone and email. Basic customer support during business hours is available at no charge to customers who purchase certain Company solutions. Premier customer support includes extended availability and additional services, such as an assigned support representative and/or administrator. Premier customer support is available for an additional fee. Additional support services include developer support and partner support. -7- Table of Contents Competition The market for the Companys products and services is very competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors include product quality, reliability, performance, price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, quality of support and degree of integration effort required with other systems. While our competitors are often considerably larger companies in size with larger sales forces and marketing budgets, we believe that our deep industry knowledge and the breadth and depth of our offerings give us a competitive advantage. Our ability to continually improve our products, processes and services, as well as our ability to develop new products, enables the Company to meet evolving customer requirements. We compete with large enterprise-wide software vendors, developers and integrators, business-to-business exchanges, consulting firms, focused solution providers, and business intelligence technology platforms. Our supply chain solution competitors include supply chain vendors, major enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) software vendors, mid-market ERP vendors and niche players for VMI and SLR. Patents and Proprietary Rights The Company relies on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our name. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. The Company has been awarded nine U.S. patents, eight U.S. registered trademarks and has 37 U.S. copyrights relating to its software technology and solutions. The Companys patent portfolio has been transferred to an unrelated third party, although the Company retains the right to use the licensed patents in connection with its business. However, Company policy is to continue to seek patent protection for all developments, inventions and improvements that are patentable and have potential value to the Company and to protect its trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information. The Company intends to vigorously defend its intellectual property rights to the extent its resources permit. The Company is not aware of any patent infringement claims against it; however, there are no assurances that litigation to enforce patents issued to the Company to protect proprietary information, or to defend against the Companys alleged infringement of the rights of others will not occur. Should any such litigation occur, the Company may incur significant litigation costs, Company resources may be diverted from other planned activities, and while the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, any litigation result may cause a materially adverse effect on the Companys operations and financial condition. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, could divert management attention from executing our business plan and could require us to alter our technology, change our business methods and/or pay monetary damages or enter into licensing agreements. Employees As of June 30, 2015, the Company employed a total of 68 employees, including 10 software developers and programmers, 19 sales, marketing and account management employees, 19 software service and support employees, 3 network operations employees and 7 accounting and administrative employees. During 2015, the Company contracted with 8 programmers and 2 business analysts overseas. The Company plans to continue expanding its offshore workforce to augment its analytics services offerings, expand its professional services and to provide additional programming resources. The employees are not represented by any labor union. Reports to Security Holders The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, it files annual, quarterly and other reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy these reports and other information at the Securities and Exchange Commission's public reference rooms in Washington, D.C. and Chicago, Illinois. The Companys filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and the website maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov . Government Regulation and Approval Like all businesses, the Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including regulations relating to patent, copyright, and trademark law matters. Cost of Compliance with Environmental Laws The Company currently has no costs associated with compliance with environmental regulations, and does not anticipate any future costs associated with environmental compliance; however, there can be no assurance that it will not incur such costs in the future. -8- Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK F ACTO RS An investment in our common stock is subject to many risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed by any of the following risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company The Company has incurred losses in the past and there can be no assurance that the Company will operate profitably in the future. The Companys marketing strategy emphasizes sales of subscription-based services, instead of annual licenses, and contracting with suppliers ( spokes ) to connect to our clients ( hubs ). This strategy has resulted in the development of a foundation of hubs to which suppliers can be connected, thereby accelerating future growth. If, however, this marketing strategy fails, revenue and operations will be negatively affected. The Company had a net loss of $3,849,773 for the year ended June 30, 2015, compared to a net loss of $2,490,145 for the year ended June 30, 2014. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve profitability in future periods. If the Company does not operate profitably in the future, the Companys current cash resources will be used to fund the Companys operating losses. Continued losses would have an adverse effect on the long-term value of the Companys common stock and any investment in the Company. The Company cannot give any assurance that the Company will continue to generate revenue or have sustainable profits. Although the Companys cash resources are currently sufficient, the Companys long-term liquidity and capital requirements may be difficult to predict, which may adversely affect the Companys long-term cash position. Historically, the Company has been successful in raising capital when necessary, including private placements, a registered direct offering, and stock issuances from its officers and directors, including its Chief Executive Officer and majority stockholder, in order to pay its indebtedness and fund its operations, in addition to cash flow from operations. As a result of the consummation of the registered direct offering on April 15, 2015, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $6.7 million, the Company anticipates that it will have adequate cash resources to fund its operations and satisfy its debt obligations for at least the next 12 months. If the Company is required to seek additional financing in the future in order to fund its operations, retire its indebtedness and otherwise carry out its business plan, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and there can be no assurance that any such arrangement, if required or otherwise sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable and in the Companys best interests. Quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate, which makes it difficult to predict future performance. Management expects a significant portion of the Companys revenue stream to come from the sale of subscriptions, and to a lesser extent, license sales, maintenance and services charged to new customers. These amounts will fluctuate because predicting future sales is difficult and involves speculation. In addition, the Company may potentially experience significant fluctuations in future operating results caused by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of its control, including: our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers' requirements; the renewal rates for our service; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business; changes in our pricing policies whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; the cost, timing and management effort for the introduction of new features to our service; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; variations in the revenue mix of editions or versions of our service; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; -9- Table of Contents general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers' ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions or upgrade their service, or delay a prospective customers' purchasing decision, or reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates; timing of additional investments in our enterprise cloud computing application and platform services and in our consulting service; regulatory compliance costs; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and the timing of stock awards to employees and the related financial statement impact. Future operating results may fluctuate because of the foregoing factors, making it difficult to predict operating results. Period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. In addition, a relatively large portion of the Companys expenses will be fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to facilities and personnel. Therefore, future operating results will be particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue because of these and other short-term fixed costs. The Company will need to effectively manage its growth in order to achieve and sustain profitability. The Companys failure to manage growth effectively could reduce its sales growth and result in continued net losses. To achieve continual and consistent profitable operations on a fiscal year on-going basis, the Company must have significant growth in its revenue from its products and services, specifically subscription-based services. If the Company is able to achieve significant growth in future subscription sales, and expands the scope of its operations, the Companys management, financial condition, operational capabilities, and procedures and controls could be strained. The Company cannot be certain that its existing or any additional capabilities, procedures, systems, or controls will be adequate to support the Companys operations. The Company may not be able to design, implement or improve its capabilities, procedures, systems or controls in a timely and cost-effective manner. Failure to implement, improve and expand the Companys capabilities, procedures, systems or controls in an efficient and timely manner could reduce the Companys sales growth and result in a reduction of profitability or increase of net losses. The Companys officers and directors have significant control over it, which may lead to conflicts with other stockholders over corporate governance. The Companys officers and directors, including our Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields, control approximately 37.8% of the Companys common stock. Mr. Fields, individually, controls 30.4% of the Companys common stock. Consequently, Mr. Fields individually, and the Companys officers and directors, as stockholders acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by the Companys stockholders, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as mergers or other business combination transactions. The Companys corporate charter contains authorized, unissued blank check preferred stock issuable without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests. The Companys certificate of incorporation currently authorizes the issuance of up to 30,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock with designations, rights, and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Companys Board of Directors, of which 700,000 shares are currently designated as Series B Preferred and 300,000 shares are designated as Series B-1 Preferred. As of June 30, 2015, a total of 625,375 shares of Series B Preferred and 74,200 shares of Series B-1 Preferred were issued and outstanding. The Companys board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights that could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, the Companys common stockholders. The issuance of an additional series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. -10- Table of Contents Because the Company has never paid dividends on its common stock, investors should exercise caution before making an investment in the Company. The Company has never paid dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate the declaration of any dividends pertaining to its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of the Companys business. The Companys board of directors will determine future dividend policy at their sole discretion and future dividends will be contingent upon future earnings, if any, obligations of the stock issued, the Companys financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors. Future dividends may also be affected by covenants contained in loan or other financing documents, which may be executed by the Company in the future. Therefore, there can be no assurance that dividends will ever be paid on its common stock. The Companys business is dependent upon the continued services of the Companys founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields; should the Company lose the services of Mr. Fields, the Companys operations will be negatively impacted. The Companys business is dependent upon the expertise of its founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields. Mr. Fields is essential to the Companys operations. Accordingly, an investor must rely on Mr. Fields management decisions that will continue to control the Companys business affairs. The Company currently maintains key man insurance on Mr. Fields life in the amount of $5,000,000; however, that coverage would be inadequate to compensate for the loss of his services. The loss of the services of Mr. Fields would have a materially adverse effect upon the Companys business. If the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, the Company may be unable to develop, retain or expand the staff necessary to support its operational business needs. The Companys current and future success depends on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate various employees, including skilled software development, technical, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for such employees is intense and the Company may be unable to attract or retain such professionals. If the Company fails to attract and retain these professionals, the Companys revenue and expansion plans may be negatively impacted. The Companys officers and directors have limited liability and indemnification rights under the Companys organizational documents, which may impact its results. The Companys officers and directors are required to exercise good faith and high integrity in the management of the Companys affairs. The Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws, however, provide, that the officers and directors shall have no liability to the stockholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in their respective managerial capacities unless they violated their duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend or stock repurchase or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. As a result, an investor may have a more limited right to action than he would have had if such a provision were not present. The Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws also require it to indemnify the Companys officers and directors against any losses or liabilities they may incur as a result of the manner in which they operate the Companys business or conduct the Companys internal affairs, provided that the officers and directors reasonably believe such actions to be in, or not opposed to, the Companys best interests, and their conduct does not constitute gross negligence, misconduct or breach of fiduciary obligations. Risks Related to the ReposiTrak The Company faces risks associated with new product introductions of ReposiTrak. The first installations of ReposiTrak began in August 2012, and market and product data related to these implementations is still being analyzed. The Company also continually receives and analyzes market and product data on other products, and the Company may endeavor to develop and commercialize new product offerings based on this data. The following risks apply to ReposiTrak and other potential new product offerings: it may be difficult for the Company to predict the amount of service and technological resources that will be needed by customers of ReposiTrak or other new offerings, and if the Company underestimates the necessary resources, the quality of its service will be negatively impacted thereby undermining the value of the product to the customer; the Company lacks experience with ReposiTrak and the market acceptance to accurately predict if it will be a profitable product; -11- Table of Contents technological issues between the Company and customers may be experienced in capturing data, and these technological issues may result in unforeseen conflicts or technological setbacks when implementing additional installations of ReposiTrak. This may result in material delays and even result in a termination of the ReposiTrak engagement; the customers experience with ReposiTrak and other new offerings, if negative, may prevent the Company from having an opportunity to sell additional products and services to that customer; if customers do not use ReposiTrak as the Company recommends and fails to implement any needed corrective action(s), it is unlikely that customers will experience the business benefits from the software service and may therefore be hesitant to continue the engagement as well as acquire any additional software services from the Company; and delays in proceeding with the implementation of ReposiTrak or other new products for a new customer will negatively affect the Companys cash flow and its ability to predict cash flow. Approximately 21% of our total revenue during 2015 was attributable to ReposiTrak. In the event the market for ReposiTraks services fails to develop as anticipated, or ReposiTrak is otherwise unable to execute its business plan, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The Company recognized approximately $3.0 million in subscription and management fees during the year ended June 30, 2015 from its contractual relationship with ReposiTrak prior to the ReposiTrak Acquisition, which amount constituted approximately 21% of the Companys total revenue in 2015. Approximately $2.3 million net was advanced to ReposiTrak for working capital purposes during the year ended June 30, 2015, which amount was evidenced by the issuance of promissory notes by ReposiTrak to the Company. The notes were eliminated in connection with the consolidation of ReposiTrak following the ReposiTrak Acquisition. In the event the market for ReposiTraks services fails to develop as anticipated, or ReposiTrak is otherwise unable to execute its business plan, the Companys financial results, including its financial condition, may be adversely and materially affected. If our products do not perform as expected, whether as a result of operator error or otherwise, it would impair our operating results and reputation. Our success depends on the food safety markets confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality reporting for our customers. We believe that our customers are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and operator errors, including if our systems fail to accurately report issues that could reduce the liability of our clients in the event of a product recall. In addition, our reputation and the reputation of our products can be adversely affected if our systems fail to perform as expected. However, if our customers or potential customers fail to implement and use our systems as suggested by us, they may not be in a position to deal with a recall as effectively as they could have. As a result, the failure or perceived failure of our products to perform as expected, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and business. If a customer is sued because of a recalled product we could be joined in that suit, the defense of which would impair our operating results. A customer which is a defendant in a product liability case could claim that had our services performed as represented the extent of potential liability would have been minimized and therefore the Company should have some contributory liability in the case. Defending such a claim could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and business. Business Operations Risks If the Companys marketing strategy fails, its revenue and operations will be negatively affected. The Company plans to concentrate its future sales efforts towards marketing the Companys applications and services, and specifically to contract with suppliers ( spokes ) to connect to our existing retail customers ( hubs ) previously signed up by the Company. These applications and services are designed to be highly flexible so that they can work in multiple retail and supplier environments such as grocery stores, convenience stores, specialty retail and route-based delivery environments. There is no assurance that the public will accept the Companys applications and services in proportion to the Companys increased marketing of this product line, or that the Company will be able to successfully leverage its hubs to increase revenue by connecting suppliers. The Company may face significant competition that may negatively affect demand for its applications and services, including the publics preference for the Companys competitors new product releases or updates over the Companys releases or updates. If the Companys applications and services marketing strategies fail, the Company will need to refocus its marketing strategy toward other product offerings, which could lead to increased development and marketing costs, delayed revenue streams, and otherwise negatively affect the Companys operations. -12- Table of Contents Because the Companys emphasis is on the sale of subscription based services, rather than annual license fees, the Companys revenue may be negatively affected. Historically, the Company offered applications and related maintenance contracts to new customers for a one-time, non-recurring up front license fee and provided an option for annually renewing their maintenance agreements. The Company is now principally offering prospective customers monthly subscription based licensing of its products. The Companys customers may now choose to acquire a license to use the software on an Application Solution Provider basis (also referred to as ASP ) resulting in monthly charges for use of the Companys software products and maintenance fees. The Companys conversion from a strategy of one-time, non-recurring licensing based model to a monthly recurring fees based approach is subject to the following risks: the Companys customers may prefer one-time fees rather than monthly fees; and there may be a threshold level (number of locations) at which the monthly based fee structure may not be economical to the customer, and a request to convert from monthly fees to an annual fee could occur. The Company faces threats from competing and emerging technologies that may affect its profitability . Markets for the Companys type of software products and that of its competitors are characterized by: development of new software, software solutions or enhancements that are subject to constant change; rapidly evolving technological change; and unanticipated changes in customer needs. Because these markets are subject to such rapid change, the life cycle of the Companys products is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company is subject to the following risks: whether or how the Company will respond to technological changes in a timely or cost-effective manner; whether the products or technologies developed by the Companys competitors will render the Companys products and services obsolete or shorten the life cycle of the Companys products and services; and whether the Companys products and services will achieve market acceptance. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facility could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from a third-party data center hosting facility located in the United States. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. As we continue to add capacity, we may move or transfer our data and our customers' data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. Further, any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, our production environment and all of our customers' data is currently replicated in near real-time in a separate facility physically located in a different geographic region of the United States. Companies and products added through acquisition may be temporarily served through an alternate facility. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. -13- Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer's data, our data or our information technology systems, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise during transfer of data to additional data centers or at any time, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. We cannot accurately predict subscription renewal or upgrade rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their initial subscription period. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our service, customers' ability to continue their operations and spending levels, and deteriorating general economic conditions. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our service or reduce the level of service at the time of renewal, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional features and services, more subscriptions or enhanced editions of our service to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions. If our efforts to upsell to our customers are not successful, our business may suffer. Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. The United States and other key international economies have experienced in the past a downturn in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. These conditions affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to purchase our enterprise cloud computing services, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts or affect renewal rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. If the Company is unable to adapt to constantly changing markets and to continue to develop new products and technologies to meet the customers needs, the Companys revenue and profitability will be negatively affected. The Companys future revenue is dependent upon the successful and timely development and licensing of new and enhanced versions of its products and potential product offerings suitable to the customers needs. If the Company fails to successfully upgrade existing products and develop new products, and those new products do not achieve market acceptance, the Companys revenue will be negatively impacted. The Company faces risks associated with the loss of maintenance and other revenue. The Company has historically experienced the loss of long-term maintenance customers as a result of the reliability of some of its products. Some customers may not see the value in continuing to pay for maintenance that they do not need or use, and in some cases, customers have decided to replace the Companys applications or maintain the system on their own. The Company continues to focus on these maintenance clients by providing new functionality and enhancements to meet their business needs. The Company also may lose some maintenance revenue due to consolidation of industries, macroeconomic conditions or customer operational difficulties that lead to their reduction of size. In addition, future revenue will be negatively impacted if the Company fails to add new maintenance customers that will make additional purchases of the Companys products and services. -14- Table of Contents The Company faces risks associated with proprietary protection of the Companys software. The Companys success depends on the Companys ability to develop and protect existing and new proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. The Company seeks to protect its software, documentation and other written materials primarily through a combination of patents, trademarks, and copyright laws, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. While the Company has attempted to safeguard and maintain the Companys proprietary rights, there are no assurances that the Company will be successful in doing so. The Companys competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Companys. Despite the Companys efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the Companys products or obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. In some types of situations, the Company may rely in part on shrink wrap or point and click licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Policing unauthorized use of the Companys products is difficult. While the Company is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of the Companys software exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as the United States. The Company can offer no assurance that the Companys means of protecting its proprietary rights will be adequate or that the Companys competitors will not reverse engineer or independently develop similar technology. The Company may discover software errors in its products that may result in a loss of revenue, injury to the Companys reputation or subject us to substantial liability. Non-conformities or bugs ( errors ) may be found from time to time in the Companys existing, new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenue or injury to the Companys reputation. In the past, the Company has discovered errors in its products and as a result, has experienced delays in the shipment of products. Errors in the Companys products may be caused by defects in third-party software incorporated into the Companys products. If so, the Company may not be able to fix these defects without the cooperation of these software providers. Since these defects may not be as significant to the software provider as they are to us, the Company may not receive the rapid cooperation that may be required. The Company may not have the contractual right to access the source code of third-party software, and even if the Company does have access to the code, the Company may not be able to fix the defect. In addition, our customers may use our service in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data. Since the Companys customers use the Companys products for critical business applications, any errors, defects or other performance problems could hurt the Companys reputation and may result in damage to the Companys customers business. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. These potential scenarios, successful or otherwise, would likely be time consuming and costly. Some competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources that may give them an advantage in the market. Many of the Companys competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources. This may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers in the industry, which could result in a loss of potential or current customers or could force us to lower prices. Any of these actions could have a significant effect on revenue. In addition, the competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources to the development of new technologies that provide improved operating functionality and features to their product and service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render the Companys product and service offerings less desirable to customers, again resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price the Company can demand for the Companys offerings. Risks Relating to the Companys Common Stock The limited public market for the Companys securities may adversely affect an investors ability to liquidate an investment in the Company. Although the Companys common stock is currently quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, there is limited trading activity. The Company can give no assurance that an active market will develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. If an investor acquires shares of the Companys common stock, the investor may not be able to liquidate the Companys shares should there be a need or desire to do so. -15- Table of Contents Future issuances of the Companys shares may lead to future dilution in the value of the Companys common stock, will lead to a reduction in shareholder voting power and may prevent a change in Company control. The shares may be substantially diluted due to the following: issuance of common stock in connection with funding agreements with third parties and future issuances of common and preferred stock by the Board of Directors; and the Board of Directors has the power to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock and the right to determine the voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation, preferences and other conditions of the shares without shareholder approval. Stock issuances may result in reduction of the book value or market price of outstanding shares of common stock. If the Company issues any additional shares of common or preferred stock, proportionate ownership of common stock and voting power will be reduced. Further, any new issuance of common or preferred stock may prevent a change in control or management. ITEM 2. PROP ERT IES Our principal place of business operations is located at 299 South Main Street, Suite 2370, Salt Lake City, UT 84111. We lease approximately 5,300 square feet at this corporate office location, consisting primarily of office space, conference rooms and storage areas. Our telephone number is (435) 645-2000. Our website address is http://www.parkcitygroup.com . ITEM 3. LEGAL PRO CEED INGS We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of our business. Historically, the outcome of all such legal proceedings has not, in the aggregate, had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. There are no pending or threatened legal proceedings at this time. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DIS CLO SURES Not applicable. -16- Table of Contents P AR T II ITEM 5. MA RKET FOR COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Share Price History Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol PCYG. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock for the periods indicated. Quarterly Common Stock Price Ranges 2015 2014 Fiscal Quarter Ended High Low High Low September 30 $ 11.48 $ 9.31 $ 10.75 $ 6.06 December 31 $ 10.14 $ 6.75 $ 11.61 $ 7.95 March 31 $ 14.87 $ 8.62 $ 10.88 $ 6.88 June 30 $ 14.25 $ 9.74 $ 13.97 $ 9.00 Stock Performance Graph Value of Investment ($) 06/30/10 06/30/11 06/30/12 06/30/13 06/30/14 06/30/15 Park City Group, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 125.00 $ 103.95 $ 199.47 $ 286.58 $ 326.05 NASDAQ Composite $ 100.00 $ 131.49 $ 139.34 $ 161.35 $ 208.99 $ 236.43 Russell 2000 Index $ 100.00 $ 153.10 $ 200.58 $ 245.54 $ 299.66 $ 314.98 The stock performance graph above shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing by us under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts. Dividend Policy To date, the Company has not paid dividends on its common stock. Our present policy is to retain future earnings (if any) for use in our operations and the expansion of our business. Outstanding shares of Series B Preferred and Series B-1 Preferred each accrue dividends at the rate per share of 7% per annum if paid by the Company in cash, and 9% per annum if paid by the Company in additional shares of Series B-1 Preferred. Dividends on the Series B Preferred and Series B-1 Preferred are payable quarterly. -17- Table of Contents Holders of Record At September 11, 2015 there were 668 holders of record of our common stock, and 19,064,108 shares were issued and outstanding, three holders of Series B Preferred and 625,375 shares issued and outstanding, and four holders of Series B-1 Preferred and 74,200 shares issued and outstanding. The number of holders of record and shares of common stock issued and outstanding was calculated by reference to the books and records of the Companys transfer agent. Issuance of Securities We issued shares of our common stock in unregistered transactions during fiscal year 2015. All of the shares of common stock issued in non-registered transactions were issued in reliance on Section 3(a)(9) and/or Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and were reported in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. No shares of common or preferred stock were issued subsequent to June 30, 2015, that have not been previously reported. ITEM 6. SEL EC TED FINANCIAL DATA The following data has been derived from our audited financial statements, including the consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 2015 and 2014 and the related consolidated statements of operations for the three years ended June 30, 2015 and related notes appearing elsewhere in this report. The statement of operations data for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 and the balance sheet data as of June 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this report. The following data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, Consolidated Statement of Operations Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Revenue $ 13,648,715 $ 11,928,416 $ 11,318,574 $ 10,098,547 $ 10,752,132 (Loss) income from Operations (4,092,394 ) (2,592,725 ) 398,199 (972,712 ) 141,241 Net (loss) income (3,849,773 ) (2,490,145 ) 257,487 (858,667 ) (205,463 ) June 30 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 11,325,572 $ 3,352,559 $ 3,616,585 $ 1,106,176 $ 2,618,229 Working Capital 5,032,139 654,042 1,124,476 (2,354,977 ) (2,395,501 ) Total Assets 36,406,784 16,937,632 15,932,898 11,936,230 13,976,151 Total Liabilities 8,822,161 6,318,551 5,691,526 6,626,109 8,652,214 Deferred Revenue 2,331,920 1,840,811 1,777,326 2,081,459 1,663,232 Total Debt (current and long-term) 3,076,493 1,849,148 2,062,063 2,710,275 4,886,544 Capital Leases (current and long-term) - - - 41,201 148,749 Stockholders' Equity (deficit) 27,584,623 10,619,081 10,241,372 5,310,121 5,323,937 ITEM 7. MANA GE MENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis is intended to assist the reader in understanding our results of operations and financial condition. Managements Discussion and Analysis is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report. This Form 10-K includes certain statements that may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this Form 10-K that address activities, events or developments that we expect, project, believe, or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including matters having to do with expected and future revenue, our ability to fund our operations and repay debt, business strategies, expansion and growth of operations and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by our management in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments, and other factors it believes are appropriate in the circumstances. These statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including general economic and business conditions, the business opportunities (or lack thereof) that may be presented to and pursued by us, our performance on our current contracts and our success in obtaining new contracts, our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and those actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in such statements. -18- Table of Contents Overview Park City Group, Inc. (the Company ) is a SaaS provider that brings unique visibility to the consumer goods supply chain, delivering actionable information that ensures product is on the shelf when the consumer expects it. Our service increases our customers sales and profitability while enabling lower inventory levels for both retailers and their suppliers. Our services are delivered principally though proprietary software products designed, developed, marketed and supported by the Company. These products are designed to facilitate improved business processes among all key constituents in the supply chain, starting with the retailer and moving back to suppliers and eventually raw material providers. In addition, the Company has built a consulting practice for business process improvement that centers around the Companys proprietary software products and through establishment of a neutral and trusted third party relationship between retailers and suppliers. The principal markets for the Company's products are multi-store retail and convenience store chains, branded food manufacturers, suppliers and distributors and manufacturing companies. Historically, the Company offered applications and related maintenance contracts to new customers for a one-time, non-recurring up front license fee. Although not completely abandoning the license fee and maintenance model, since the acquisition of Prescient in January 2009, the Company has focused its strategic initiatives and resources to marketing and selling prospective customers a subscription for its product offerings. In support of this strategic shift toward a subscription-based model, the Company has scaled its contracting process, streamlined its customer on-boarding and implemented a financial package that integrates multiple systems in an automated fashion. As a result, subscription based revenue has grown from $203,000 for the 2008 fiscal year to $10.9 million this year. During that same period our revenue has transitioned from 6% subscription revenue and 94% license and other revenue, to 80% subscription revenue and 20% license and other revenue. The Company is incorporated in the state of Nevada. The Company has three subsidiaries, PC Group, Inc. (formerly, Park City Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation), a Utah Corporation (98.76% owned), Park City Group, Inc., (formerly, Prescient Applied Intelligence, Inc.), a wholly owned Delaware corporation, and ReposiTrak, Inc., a wholly owned Utah corporation (100% owned). All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Our principal executive offices of the Company are located at 299 South Main Street, Suite 2370, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Our telephone number is (435) 645-2000. Our website address is http://www.parkcitygroup.com . Recent Developments Acquisition of ReposiTrak During the year ended June 30, 2015, the Company entered into agreements with each of the stockholders of ReposiTrak, Inc. ( ReposiTrak ), including Leavitt Partners, LP and LP Special Asset 4, LLC, to acquire all of the outstanding capital stock of ReposiTrak (the ReposiTrak Shares ) in exchange for shares of the Companys common stock (the ReposiTrak Acquisition ). On June 30, 2015, the Company completed the ReposiTrak Acquisition and issued an aggregate total of 873,438 shares of its common stock in exchange for the ReposiTrak Shares. Immediately following the completion of the ReposiTrak Acquisition, ReposiTrak became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Registered Direct Offering On April 15, 2015, the Company offered and sold 572,500 shares of its common stock in a registered direct offering at a price of $12.50 per share. The Company received total net proceeds from the registered direct offering of approximately $6.7 million after deducting placement agent fees and other offering expenses. Creation of Series B-1 Preferred On March 31, 2015, the Company filed with the Nevada Secretary of State the Certificate of Designation of the Relative Rights, Powers and Preferences of the Series B-1 Preferred Stock (the Series B-1 Certificate of Designation ) in order to designate 300,000 shares of the Companys preferred stock as non-voting, non-convertible shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock ( Series B-1 Preferred ). Each share of Series B-1 Preferred accrued dividends at a rate of 7% per annum if paid by the Company in cash, and 9% per annum if paid by the Company in additional shares of Series B-1 Preferred. -19- Table of Contents Series B Restructuring On February 4, 2015, holders of the Companys Series B Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series B Preferred ), consisting of the Companys Chief Executive Officer, his spouse, and a director (the Holders ), entered into a restructuring agreement (the Restructuring Agreement ), pursuant to which the Holders consented to the filing of an amendment (the Series B Amendment ) to the Certificate of Designation of the Relative Rights, Powers and Preference of the Series B Preferred (the Series B Certificate of Designation ), pursuant to which (i) the rate at which the Series B Preferred accrues dividends was lowered to 7% per annum if paid by the Company in cash, or 9% if paid by the Company in PIK Shares (as defined below), (ii) the Company may now elect to pay accrued dividends on outstanding shares of Series B Preferred in either cash or by the issuance of additional shares of Series B Preferred ( PIK Shares ), (iii) the conversion feature of the Series B Preferred was eliminated, and (iv) the number of shares of the Company's preferred stock designated as Series B Preferred was increased from 600,000 to 900,000 shares (the Series B Restructuring ). In consideration for the Series B Restructuring, the Company proposed to issue to the Holders: (y) an aggregate of 214,198 additional shares of Series B Preferred, which shares had a stated value equal to the amount that, but for the Series B Restructuring, would have been paid to the Holders as dividends over the next five years ( Additional Shares ), and (z) five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,085,068 shares of common stock for $4.00 per share ( Series B Warrants ), an amount and per share purchase price equal to what the Holders would otherwise be entitled to receive upon conversion of their shares of Series B Preferred ( Warrant Shares ). The terms of the Series B Restructuring were amended on March 31, 2015 as follows: (i) the Series B Certificate of Designation was further amended (the Second Series B Amendment ) to (x) reduce the number of shares of the Companys preferred stock designated thereunder from 900,000 to 600,000, which number was subsequently increased to 700,000, (y) require that, should the Company pay dividends on the Series B Preferred in PIK Shares, shares Series B-1 Preferred will be issued, rather than shares of Series B Preferred, and (z) in the event any Holder elects to exercise a Series B Warrant, one share of Series B Preferred will be automatically converted into one share of Series B-1 Preferred for every 2.5 Warrant Shares received by such Holder; and (ii) the Restructuring Agreement was amended to substitute the Additional Shares for shares of Series B-1 Preferred. The Second Series B Amendment was filed with the Nevada Secretary of State on March 31, 2015. Private Placement On January 26, 2015, we accepted subscription agreements from certain accredited investors, including certain members of the Company's Board of Directors, to purchase an aggregate total of 95,302 shares of the Company's common stock for $9.48 per share, and five year warrants to purchase an aggregate total of 23,737 shares of common stock for $10.00 per share. The Company received gross proceeds of approximately $900,000 from this private placement. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal 2015 refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. Sources of Revenue The Company derives revenue from four sources: (i) subscription fees, (ii) hosting, premium support and maintenance service fees beyond the standard services offered, (iii) license fees, and (iv) professional services consisting of development services, consulting, training and education. Subscription revenue is driven primarily by the number of connections between suppliers and retailers, the number of stores and SKUs. Subscription revenue contains arrangements with customers accessing our applications, which includes the use of the application, application and data hosting, subscription-based maintenance of the application and standard support included with the subscription. Our hosting services provide remote management and maintenance of our software and customers data, which is physically located in third party facilities. Customers access hosted software and data through a secure Internet connection. Premium support services include technical assistance for our software products and unspecified product upgrades and enhancements on a when and if available basis beyond what is offered with our basic subscription package. License arrangements are a perpetual license. Software license maintenance agreements are typically annual contracts with customers that are paid in advance or according to terms specified in the contract. This provides the customer access to new software enhancements, maintenance releases, patches, updates and technical support personnel. -20- Table of Contents Professional services revenue is comprised of revenue from development, consulting, education and training. Development services include customizations and integrations for a clients specific business application. Consulting, education and training include implementation and best practices consulting. Our professional services fees are more frequently billed on a fixed price/fixed scope, but may also be billed on a time and materials basis. We have determined that the professional services element of our software and subscription arrangements is not essential to the functionality of the software. Critical Accounting Policies This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We commenced operations in the software development and professional services business during 1990. The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and assumptions. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience of operations and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies, among others, will affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes In determining the carrying value of the Companys net deferred income tax assets, the Company must assess the likelihood of sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions, to realize the benefit of these assets. If these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may record a reduction in the valuation allowance, resulting in an income tax benefit in the Companys statements of operations. Management evaluates whether or not to realize the deferred income tax assets and assesses the valuation allowance quarterly. Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Asset Valuations Goodwill is assigned to specific reporting units and is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually or more frequently upon the occurrence of an event or when circumstances indicate that a reporting unit's carrying amount is greater than its fair value. Management reviews the long-lived tangible and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Management evaluates, at each balance sheet date, whether events and circumstances have occurred which indicate possible impairment. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired when the anticipated cumulative undiscounted cash flows of the related asset or group of assets is less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair market value of the long-lived asset. Economic useful lives of long-lived assets are assessed and adjusted as circumstances dictate. See Note 7 regarding impairment charges for the year ended June 30, 2015. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when all of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the service has been provided to the customer, (iii) the collection of our fees is probable and (iv) the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the length of the agreement beginning on the commencement dates of each agreement or when revenue recognition conditions are satisfied. For a fee, subscriptions provide the customer with access to the software and data over the Internet, or on demand, and provide technical support services and software upgrades when and if available. Under subscriptions, customers do not have the right to take possession of the software and such arrangements are considered service contracts. Accordingly, we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the length of the agreement and professional services are recognized as incurred based on their relative fair values. In situations where we have contractually committed to an individual customer specific technology, we defer all of the revenue for that customer until the technology is delivered and accepted. Once delivery occurs, we then recognize the revenue ratably over the remaining contract term. When subscription service is paid in advance, deferred revenue is recognized and revenue is recorded ratably over the term as services are consumed. -21- Table of Contents Set up fees paid by customers in connection with subscription services are deferred and recognized ratably over the life of the applicable agreement. Hosting, premium support and maintenance service revenue is derived from services beyond the basic services provided in standard arrangements. We recognize hosting, premium service and maintenance revenue ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contact or when revenue recognition conditions are satisfied. Instances where hosting, premium support or maintenance service is paid in advance, deferred revenue is recognized and revenue is recording ratably over the term as services are consumed. We also sell software licenses. For software license sales, we recognize revenue when all of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the service has been provided to the customer, (iii) the collection of our fees is probable and (iv) the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. Licenses generally include multiple elements that are delivered up front or over time. Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the hosting and support elements is based on the price charged at renewal when sold separately, and the license element is recognized into revenue upon delivery. The hosting and support elements are recognized ratably over the contractual term. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The Company records compensation expense on a straight-line basis. The fair value of options granted are estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions for the risk-free interest rate, expected life, volatility, dividend yield and forfeiture rate. Capitalization of Software Development Costs The Company accounts for research costs of computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed as expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached shortly after a working prototype is complete and meets or exceeds design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Costs incurred after technological feasibility is established have been and will continue to be capitalized until such time as when the product or enhancement is available for general release to customers. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenue and results of operation, liquidity or capital expenditures. Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013 Revenue Revenue Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Revenues $ 13,648,715 $ 1,720,299 14 % $ 11,928,416 $ 609,842 5 % $ 11,318,574 During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, the Company had revenue of $13,648,715 compared to $11,928,416 for the year ended June 30, 2014, a 14% increase. This $1,720,299 increase in total revenue was principally due to an increase of $1,478,699 in revenue from subscription customers, and an increase of $241,600 in other revenue primarily relating to fees for services provided to ReposiTrak under a management agreement, the revenues from which are non-recurring as a result of the consummation of the ReposiTrak Acquisition. Total revenue recorded for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 included approximately $3.0 million received from ReposiTrak subscription and management fees prior to the completion of the ReposiTrak Acquisition. Approximately $2.3 million net was advanced to ReposiTrak for working capital purposes during the year ended June 30, 2015, which amount was evidenced by the issuance of promissory notes by ReposiTrak to the Company. The notes were eliminated in connection with the consolidation of ReposiTrak following the ReposiTrak Acquisition. -22- Table of Contents During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, the Company had total revenue of $11,928,416 compared to $11,318,574 for the year ended June 30, 2013, a 5% increase. This $609,842 increase in total revenue was principally due to an increase of $1,373,352 in subscription revenue, and offset by a decrease of $763,510 in other revenue. Total revenue recorded for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 included approximately $2.3 million received from ReposiTrak subscription and management fees. A pproximately $1.6 million was advanced to ReposiTrak for working capital purposes during the year ended June 30, 2014, which amount was evidenced by the issuance of promissory notes by ReposiTrak to the Company. The notes were eliminated in connection with the consolidation of ReposiTrak following the ReposiTrak Acquisition. Management believes that the Companys strategy of pursuing contracts with suppliers ( spokes ) to connect to retail customers ( hubs ) that have been added in the most recently completed fiscal year will continue to result in increased revenue during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2016, and in subsequent periods. In addition, management believes that revenue in subsequent periods will increase as a result of the receipt of subscription payments from ReposiTrak customers. Cost of Services and Product Support Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Cost of service and product support $ 5,256,251 $ 168,278 3 % $ 5,087,973 $ 597,535 13 % $ 4,490,438 Percent of total revenue 39 % 43 % 40 % Cost of services and product support was $5,256,251 or 39% of total revenue, and $5,087,973 or 43% of total revenue for the years ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, a 3% increase. This increase of $168,278 for the year ended June 30, 2015 when compared with the same period ended June 30, 2014 is principally due to a $244,000 increase in employee related expense. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $76,000 in travel related expense and other product support costs. Cost of services and product support was $5,087,973 or 43% of total revenue, and $4,490,438 or 40% of total revenue for the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, a 13% increase. This increase of $597,535 for the year ended June 30, 2014 when compared with the same period ended June 30, 2013 is principally due to (i) a $582,000 increase in employee related expense, and (ii) a $56,000 increase in travel related expense. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $40,000 in other product support costs. Sales and Marketing Expense Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Sales and marketing $ 5,941,349 $ 1,199,775 25 % $ 4,741,574 $ 1,687,213 55 % $ 3,054,361 Percent of total revenue 44 % 40 % 27 % The Companys sales and marketing expense was $5,941,349, or 44% of total revenue, and $4,741,574 or 40% of total revenue, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, a 25% increase. This $1,199,775 increase over the previous year was primarily the result of (i) an increase of approximately $708,000 in marketing expense and (ii) an increase in salary and sales consulting and related expenses of $513,000. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $21,000 in travel related expense. Management expects sales and marketing expense to remain at current levels to support anticipated growth in subscription revenue, among other factors. The Companys sales and marketing expense was $4,741,574, or 40% of total revenue, and $3,054,361 or 27% of total revenue, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, a 55% increase. This $1,687,213 increase over the previous year was primarily the result of (i) an increase of approximately $1.0 million in marketing expense, (ii) an increase in salary and sales consulting and related expenses of $592,000, and (iii) an increase of $59,000 in travel related expense. -23- Table of Contents General and Administrative Expense Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 General and administrative $ 4,279,641 $ 467,376 12 % $ 3,812,265 $ 1,338,096 54 % $ 2,474,169 Percent of total revenue 31 % 32 % 22 % The Companys general and administrative expense was $4,279,641, or 31% of total revenue, and $3,812,265 or 32% of total revenue for the years ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, a 12% increase. This $467,376 increase when comparing expenditures for the year ended June 30, 2015 with the same period ended June 30, 2014 is principally due to (i) an increase in stock compensation, bonus and salary expense of approximately $378,000, (ii) an increase of $158,000 in travel, professional fees, other facility related expense. The increase in general and administrative expense during the comparable period ended June 30, 2015 was partially offset by a decrease of $69,000 in estimated taxes. The Companys general and administrative expense was $3,812,265, or 32% of total revenue, and $2,474,169 or 22% of total revenue for the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, a 54% increase. This $1,338,096 increase when comparing expenditures for the year ended June 30, 2014 with the same period ended June 30, 2013 is principally due to (i) an increase in stock compensation, bonus and salary expense of approximately $1.2 million, (ii) $42,000 in increase in bad debt expense, (iii) $51,000 increase in estimated taxes, and (iv) an increase of $61,000 in travel and other expense. The increase in general and administrative expense during the comparable period ended June 30, 2014 was partially offset by a decrease of $64,000 in facility related costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Depreciation and amortization $ 768,165 $ (111,164 ) -13 % $ 879,329 $ (22,078 ) -2 % $ 901,407 Percent of total revenue 6 % 7 % 8 % The Companys depreciation and amortization expense was $768,165 and $879,329 for the year ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, a 13% decrease. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $111,164 for the year ended, June 30, 2015 when compared to the year ended June 30, 2014 due to the amortization of capitalized software costs in the 2014 that did not recur in 2015. This decrease is partially offset by an increase in depreciation related to new hardware purchases during the year ended June 30, 2015. The Companys depreciation and amortization expense was $879,329 and $901,407 for the year ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, a 2% decrease. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $22,078 for the year ended, June 30, 2014 when compared to the year ended June 30, 2013 due to the amortization of capitalized software costs. This decrease is partially offset by an increase in depreciation related to new hardware purchases during the year ended June 30, 2014. Impairment and Other Charges The Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $1.5 million during the year ended June 30, 2015, due principally to decreased margins on customers acquired in connection with the Prescient acquisition. In managements determination, the carrying value of these relationships exceeded their estimated fair values as determined by future discounted cash flow projections. When projecting the stream of future cash flows for purposes of determining long-lived asset recoverability, management makes assumptions, incorporating market conditions, sales growth rates, and operating expenses. -24- Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Other income and expense $ 242,621 $ 140,041 137 % $ 102,580 $ 243,292 173 % $ (140,712 ) Percent of total revenue 2 % 1 % -1 % Net other income (expense) was net other income of $242,621 when compared with net other income of $102,580 for the year ended June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2014, respectively. This change of $140,041 for the year ended June 30, 2015 when compared to the year ended June 30, 2014 is primarily due to interest income on notes receivable of $151,000. Net other income (expense) was net other income of $102,580 when compared with net other expense of $140,712 for the year ended June 30, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively. This change of $243,292 for the year ended June 30, 2014 when compared to the year ended June 30, 2013 is due to interest income on notes receivable of $174,000, and a decrease in interest expense related to lower outstanding balances on notes payable. Preferred Dividends Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Preferred dividends $ 568,821 $ (49,070 ) -8 % $ 617,891 $ (293,689 ) -32 % $ 911,580 Percent of total revenue 4 % 5 % 8 % Dividends accrued on the Companys Series B Preferred and Series B-1 Preferred was $568,821 for the year ended June 30, 2015, compared to dividends accrued on the Series B Preferred of $617,891 for the year ended June 30, 2014. This $49,070 decrease is primarily attributable to the decrease of the dividend rate on the Series B Preferred as a result of the Series B Amendment. Of the dividends accrued during the year ended June 30, 2015, $442,002 was paid by the issuance of 44,200 shares of Series B-1 Preferred. Prior to the Series B Restructuring, holders of Series B Preferred were entitled to a 15.00% annual dividend, payable quarterly in cash. Dividends accrued on the Companys Series B Preferred was $617,891 for the year ended June 30, 2014, compared to dividends accrued on the Companys Series A Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series A Preferred ) and Series B Preferred of $911,580 for the year ended June 30, 2013. This $293,689 decrease is primarily attributable to the Companys redemption of all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred in April 2013 (the Series A Redemption ). Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe our existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, are sufficient to fund operating and investment requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth and expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending required for research and development efforts and the continuing market acceptance of our products. Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 11,325,572 $ 7,973,013 238 % $ 3,352,559 $ (264,026 ) -7 % $ 3,616,585 We have historically funded our operations with cash from operations, equity financings and debt borrowings. Cash and cash equivalents was $11,325,572 and $3,352,559 at June 30, 2015, and June 30, 2014, respectively, a 238% increase, and $3,352,559 and $3,616,585 at June 30, 2014, and June 30, 2013, respectively, a 7% decrease. The $7,973,013 increase during the year ended June 30, 2015 when compared to the year ended June 30, 2014 is principally the result of the net proceeds of $6.7 million received from the registered direct offering completed in April 2015 and the $900,000 net proceeds from the private offering in January 2015, offset, in part, by the use of cash in operations, while the $264,026 decrease from the year ended June 30, 2014 to the comparable period ended June 30, 2013 was principally the result of the use of cash in operations, and notes receivable issued by ReposiTrak, offset by the receipt of approximately $1.5 million received from certain private placements in March and August 2013. -25- Table of Contents Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,707,597 $ 1,800,131 N/A % $ (92,534 ) $ 56,530 38 % $ (149,064 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities is summarized as follows: 2015 2014 2013 Net (loss) income $ (3,849,773 ) $ (2,490,145 ) $ 257,487 Noncash expense and income, net 5,368,925 2,882,344 1,889,669 Net changes in operating assets and liabilities 188,445 (484,733 ) (2,296,220 ) $ 1,707,597 $ (92,534 ) (149,064 ) Noncash expense increased by $2,486,581 in the year ended June 30, 2015 compared to June 30, 2014. Noncash expense increased as a result of an impairment charge of $1,496,000, a $1,041,000 increase in stock compensation expense, and a $61,000 increase in stock issued as a charitable contribution. Noncash expense increased by $992,675 in the year ended June 30, 2014 compared to June 30, 2013. Noncash expense increased as a result of a $876,000 increase in stock compensation expense, $97,000 increase in stock issued as a charitable contribution, and $42,000 increase in bad debt expense. Net Cash Flows from Investing Activities Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Cash flows used in investing activities $ 2,606,877 $ 954,152 58 % $ 1,652,725 $ 1,206,981 271 % $ 445,744 Net cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2015 was $2,606,877 compared to net cash flows used in investing activities of $1,652,725 for the year ended June 30, 2014. This $954,152 increase in cash used in investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2015 when compared to the same period in 2014 was the result of funds loaned to ReposiTrak prior to the completion of the ReposiTrak Acquisition, partially offset by a reduction in cash spent on property plant and equipment. Net cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2014 was $1,652,725 compared to net cash flows used in investing activities of $445,744 for the year ended June 30, 2013. This $1,206,981 increase in cash used in investing activities for the 2014 when compared to the same period in 2013 was the result of additional cash spent on property plant and equipment and funds loaned under notes receivable. Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Cash flows provided by financing activities $ 8,872,293 $ 7,391,060 499 % $ 1,481,233 $ (1,623,984 ) -52 % $ 3,105,217 Net cash flows provided by financing activities totaled $8,872,293 for the year ended June 30, 2015 compared to cash flows used in financing activities of $1,481,233 for the year ended June 30, 2014. The change in net cash related to financing activities is primarily attributable to the increases in (i) stock issued for cash of $6.1 million, (ii) proceeds from an increase in lines of credit of $1.3 million, (iii) a decrease in cash paid for dividends of $430,000, (iv) a decrease in payments on notes payable of $306,000, and (v) increased proceeds from employee stock plans of $49,000. These items were partially offset by a decrease of $633,000 in cash from the exercise of options and warrants and a decrease in proceed for the issuance of notes payable. -26- Table of Contents Net cash flows provided by financing activities totaled $1,481,233 for the year ended June 30, 2014 compared to cash flows provided by financing activities of $3,105,217 for the year ended June 30, 2013. The change in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily attributable to the decrease in stock issued for cash, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of warrants of $633,000, proceeds from a note payable of $161,000, and a decrease in cash paid to notes payable and capital leases. Liquidity and Working Capital At June 30, 2015, the Company had positive working capital of $5,032,139, as compared with positive working capital of $654,042 at June 30, 2014 and positive working capital of $1,124,476 at June 30, 2013. This $4,378,097 increase in working capital during the year ended June 30, 2015, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2014, is principally the result of the $7.6 million in proceeds received from the registered direct offering completed in April 2015 and private offering in January 2015, while the decrease in working capital during the year ended June 30, 2014, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2013, was principally due to the use of cash caused principally by the increase in net loss during 2014. During the year ended June 30, 2015, the Company substantially increased its working capital position, and therefore anticipates that it will have adequate cash resources to fund its operations and satisfy its debt obligations for at least the next 12 months. Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Current assets $ 13,429,590 $ 6,968,193 108 % $ 6,461,397 $ 57,537 1 % $ 6,403,860 Current assets at June 30, 2015 totaled $13,429,590, an increase of $6,968,193 when compared to $6,461,397 at June 30, 2014. This 108% increase in cash from the proceeds of the registered direct offering completed in April 2015 and the private offering in January 2015. Current assets at June 30, 2014 totaled $6,461,397, an increase of $57,537 when compared to $6,403,860 at June 30, 2013. This 1% increase in current assets is due to an increase in accounts receivable partially offset by a decrease in prepaid expenses and cash. Year Ended June 30, 2015 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2014 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2013 Current liabilities $ 8,397,451 $ 2,590,096 45 % $ 5,807,355 $ 527,971 10 % $ 5,279,384 Current liabilities totaled $8,397,451 and $5,807,355 as of June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The $2,590,096 comparative increase in current liabilities is principally due is principally due to increases lines of credit and accrued liabilities as well as increases in accounts payable and deferred revenue acquired in acquisition of ReposiTrak. Current liabilities totaled $5,807,355 and $5,279,384 as of June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The $527,971 comparative increase in current liabilities is principally due an increase in accounts payable, deferred revenue and accrued liabilities, partially offset by decreases in current notes payable. While no assurances can be given, management currently intends to continue to reduce its indebtedness in subsequent periods utilizing existing cash resources and projected cash flow from operations. In addition, management may also continue to pay down, pay off or refinance certain of the Companys indebtedness. Management believes that these initiatives will enable us to address our debt service requirements during the next twelve months without negatively impacting our working capital, as well as fund our currently anticipated operations and capital spending requirements. -27- Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Total contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of June 30, 2015 are summarized in the following table (in thousands): Payment Due by Year Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 731,047 $ 160,608 $ 335,843 $ 234,596 $ - Inflation The impact of inflation has historically not had a material effect on the Companys financial condition or results from operations; however, higher rates of inflation may cause retailers to slow their spending in the technology area, which could have an impact on the Companys sales. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period. This Update clarifies the accounting for equity awards in which the performance target (i.e. an initial public offering) could be achieved after the requisite service period. The guidance requires a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the service period be treated as a performance condition and not be reflected in the fair value of the award. Therefore, the compensation costs will begin to be recognized when it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved. If the requisite service period is complete, the entire amount of compensation costs should be recognized at that time. This Update is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The Company currently does not have any stock-based awards meeting the criteria noted so the Company doesnt expect this Update to have a significant impact on its financials However, it will evaluate new grants and ensure the guidance is followed if these types of grants are made. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customer (Topic 606). This Update provides new revenue recognition guidance that will be applicable for all industries and develops a common revenue standard for GAAP and IFRS. The main purpose of the new guidance is to remove inconsistencies, provide a more robust framework, improve comparability among industries, improve disclosure requirements and reduce the number of requirements to which an entity must refer. The guidance outlines the following five steps that should be followed in recognizing revenue: 1. Identify contract with customer; 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and 5. Recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied. The update also provides disclosure requirements requiring entities to provide sufficient information to enable users to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. This update is effective for public entities for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and for all other entities, it is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Due to the extensive nature of this update, the Company is evaluating the impact this new guidance will have on its financials.