Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in Part II, Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 854,415 $ 481,534 $ 388,872 $ 353,294 $ 243,826 (Loss) income from operations $ (12,177 ) $ 11,054 $ 13,927 $ 14,238 $ 655 (Loss) income before benefit from (provision for) income taxes $ (28,658 ) $ 4,567 $ 32,703 $ 62,732 $ 2,764 Net (loss) income $ (17,269 ) $ 5,894 $ 20,454 $ 65,135 $ (27,833 ) Basic net (loss) income per share $ (0.33 ) $ 0.14 $ 0.48 $ 1.58 $ (0.69 ) Diluted net (loss) income per share $ (0.33 ) $ 0.13 $ 0.46 $ 1.53 $ (0.69 ) Weighted average common stock outstanding (basic) 52,284 43,616 42,508 41,270 40,323 Weighted average common stock outstanding (diluted) 52,284 45,325 43,999 42,527 40,323 As of December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 334,411 $ 132,962 $ 182,270 $ 78,755 $ 195,307 Working capital (1) $ 352,635 $ 135,778 $ 172,109 $ 94,518 $ 200,942 Total assets (2) $ 2,361,075 $ 912,112 $ 863,874 $ 622,489 $ 457,943 Deferred revenue (short and long-term), due to acquirees (short and long-term) and other long-term liabilities $ 58,812 $ 24,620 $ 29,593 $ 30,719 $ 11,090 Long term debt, net $ 886,563 $ 170,317 $ 162,279 $ $ Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) $ 62,305 $ 79,574 $ 73,680 $ 53,226 $ (11,909 ) Total stockholders equity $ 1,098,688 $ 601,224 $ 571,317 $ 494,756 $ 408,917 (1) Working capital is defined as current assets less current liabilities. (2) Presentation of prior year balances have been conformed to the current presentation. See Note 1 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 34 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. In addition, you should read the sections entitled Cautionary Statements Relating to Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Part 1, Item 1 and Item 1A, respectively, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Dealertrack Technologies web-based software solutions and services enhance efficiency and profitability for all major segments of the automotive retail industry, including dealers, lenders, OEMs, third-party retailers, aftermarket providers and other service providers. Dealertrack operates the largest online credit application networks in the United States and Canada. We believe we deliver the industrys most comprehensive solution set, including: Digital Marketing solutions, which provide websites, digital advertising, and other digital marketing offerings to assist dealers in achieving higher lead conversion rates by helping to optimize the number of shoppers to their websites; Dealer Management solutions, which provide franchised and independent dealers with powerful dealer management systems (DMS) featuring easy-to-use tools and real-time data access to enhance their efficiency; F&I solutions, which allow dealers to streamline the in-store and online sales and financing processes as they structure deals from a single integrated platform; Inventory solutions, which provide vehicle inventory management and transportation offerings to help dealers accelerate used-vehicle turn rates and assist with the facilitation of vehicle delivery; Registration & Titling solutions, which include online and cross-state vehicle registration services; and Collateral Management solutions, which include electronic lien and titling applications and service, title and collateral administration, as well as our digital contracting processing services. In January 2015, we completed the acquisition of more than 99% of the voting equity of incadea plc (incadea), a leading provider of dealer management system (DMS) software and services to the global automotive retail and wholesale market. Incadea has long-term relationships with a number of global OEMs and serves more than 75,000 end-users. Through this acquisition, the number of countries in which our products are used increased to over 90, giving us a significant presence in North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific. We are a Delaware corporation formed in August 2001. We are organized as a holding company and conduct a substantial amount of our business through our subsidiaries. Executive Summary Selected highlights of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 are as follows: Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $854.4 million, an increase of $372.9 million from the year ended December 31, 2013. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $(17.3) million as compared to net income of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. In February 2014, we signed agreements to sell all of our equity interest in TrueCar, Inc. (TrueCar). We received proceeds of $92.5 million from the sale of the shares, which had a carrying value of $82.7 million. This resulted in a gain of $6.8 million, net of taxes. We used a significant portion of the proceeds from the sale as part of the purchase consideration for the acquisition of Dealer.com, described below. On February 28, 2014, we entered into a credit agreement which provided credit facilities aggregating $800.0 million, including a $575.0 million term loan B credit facility and a $225.0 million revolving credit facility. The proceeds of the term loan B credit facility were used to pay the cash consideration for the acquisition of Dealer.com, described below. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes of Dealertrack and its subsidiaries (including certain acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments). As of December 31, 2014, we had $160.0 million outstanding on our 2014 revolving credit facility reflecting borrowings used in the incadea acquisition in January 2015. As of December 31, 2014, there is $65.0 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. On March 1, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Dealer.com, a leading provider of comprehensive digital marketing solutions and services for the automotive retail industry. On June 30, 2014, we made payments of $26.4 million to reduce the outstanding balance of our term loan B credit facility. 35 On July 1 2014, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of ASR Pro, a leading provider of web-based electronic multipoint-inspection and fixed operations services for automotive dealerships. In December 2014, we announced a recommended cash offer to acquire incadea, a leading provider of DMS software and services to the global automotive retail market. The acquisition of incadea positions us as a global provider of automotive retail software and solutions, expanding our global addressable market and installed base. In addition, it strengthens and broadens our existing relationships with global OEMs, dealers and other customers in automotive retail, while helping accelerate incadeas growth prospects by leveraging our relationships and resources. In January 2015, we completed the acquisition of incadea. Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Business Statistics We monitor our business performance using a number of measures that are not found in our consolidated financial statements. These measures include active dealers and lenders, active lender to dealership relationships, subscribing dealers, the average monthly subscription revenue per subscribing dealership, the number of transactions processed, average transaction price, transaction revenue per car sold, active dealerships on an advertising platform, and the average monthly advertising spend per dealer rooftop. We believe that improvements in these metrics will result in improvements in our financial performance over time. We also view the acquisition and successful integration of acquired companies as important milestones in the growth of our business as these acquired companies bring new products to our customers and expand our technological capabilities. We believe that successful acquisitions will also lead to improvements in our financial performance over time. In the near term, however, the purchase accounting treatment of acquisitions can have a negative impact on our consolidated statement of operations, as the depreciation and amortization expenses associated with acquired assets can be substantial for several years following each acquisition. As a result, we monitor our non-GAAP financial measures and other business statistics as a measure of operating performance in addition to net income and the other measures included in our consolidated financial statements. The following table consists of our non-GAAP financial measures and certain other business statistics that management continually monitors (amounts in thousands are GAAP net (loss) income, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income, capital expenditures and transactions processed): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net (loss) income (GAAP) $ (17,269 ) $ 5,894 $ 20,454 Financial Measures and Other Business Statistics (Non-GAAP): Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) (1) $ 192,571 $ 117,707 $ 97,273 Adjusted net income (non-GAAP) (1) $ 82,337 $ 59,095 $ 49,068 Capital expenditures, software and website development costs $ 92,907 $ 52,040 $ 40,803 Active dealers in our U.S. network as of end of the period (2) 19,770 20,046 19,067 Active lenders in our U.S. network as of end of the period (3) 1,539 1,410 1,261 Active lender to dealer relationships as of end of the period (4) 202,086 191,135 174,628 Subscribing dealers in U.S. and Canada as of end of the period (5) 24,336 18,464 17,619 Average monthly subscription revenue per subscribing dealership (6) $ 1,188 $ 767 $ 708 Transactions processed (7) 119,409 101,925 87,833 Average transaction price (8) $ 2.83 $ 2.76 $ 2.61 Transaction revenue per car sold (9) $ 9.43 $ 8.08 $ 6.95 Active dealerships on advertising platform as of end of the period (10) 7,525 * * Average monthly advertising spend per dealer rooftop (11) $ 1,982 $ * $ * * Historical amounts not applicable (1) Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents GAAP net income (loss) excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses, stock-based compensation, contra-revenue and certain items, as applicable, such as: impairment charges, restructuring charges, impact of acquisition-related activity (including contingent consideration changes, compensation expense, basis difference amortization, and professional service fees), realized gains on sales of previously impaired securities, gains or losses on sales or disposals of subsidiaries and other assets, rebranding expense and certain other items that we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing operating results. Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents GAAP net income (loss) excluding stock-based compensation expense, the amortization of acquired identifiable intangibles, contra-revenue, and certain items, as applicable, such as: impairment charges, restructuring charges, impact of acquisition-related activity (including contingent consideration changes, compensation expense, basis difference amortization, and professional service fees), realized gains on sales of previously impaired securities, gains or losses on sales or disposals of subsidiaries and other assets, adjustments to deferred tax asset valuation allowances, non-cash interest expense, rebranding expense and certain other items that we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing operating results. These adjustments to net income (loss), which are shown before taxes, are adjusted for their tax impact at their applicable statutory rates. 36 Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are presented because management believes that they provide additional information with respect to the performance of our fundamental business activities and are also frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of comparable companies. We rely on adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income as primary measures to review and assess the operating performance of our company and management team in connection with our executive compensation plan incentive payments. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income have limitations as analytical tools and you should not consider them in isolation from, or as a substitute for, analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income do not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; Non-cash compensation is and will remain a key element of our overall long-term incentive compensation package, although we exclude it from adjusted net income and adjusted EBITDA when evaluating our ongoing performance for a particular period; Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income do not reflect the impact of certain charges or gains resulting from matters we consider not to be indicative of our ongoing operations; and Other companies may calculate adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income only as supplements to our GAAP results. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are measures of our performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are not measurements of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to net income, operating income or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. The following table sets forth the reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, from net (loss) income, our most directly comparable financial measure, in accordance with GAAP (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net (loss) income (GAAP) $ (17,269 ) $ 5,894 $ 20,454 Interest income (458 ) (510 ) (745 ) Interest expense cash 20,892 3,780 3,357 Interest expense non-cash (12) 13,088 9,482 7,444 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes, net (11,389 ) (1,327 ) 12,249 Depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of capitalized software and website costs 50,337 30,989 23,345 Amortization of acquired identifiable intangibles 86,193 31,538 28,333 EBITDA (non-GAAP) 141,394 79,846 94,437 Adjustments: Stock-based compensation 17,074 14,391 13,592 Contra-revenue (13) 5,272 4,869 4,215 Integration and other related costs (14) 18,957 6,802 1,530 Acquisition-related and other professional fees (14) 13,332 5,235 2,711 Acquisition-related contingent consideration changes and compensation expense, net (15) 4,180 2,028 1,777 Amortization of equity method investment basis difference (16) 2,190 2,824 3,985 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries and sale of investments (9,828 ) (33,193 ) Rebranding expense 2,068 1,909 Realized gain on sale of previously impaired securities (non-taxable) (356 ) Change in fair value of warrant 6,310 Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) $ 192,571 $ 117,707 $ 97,273 37 The following table sets forth the reconciliation of adjusted net income, a non-GAAP financial measure, from net (loss) income, our most directly comparable financial measure, in accordance with GAAP (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net (loss) income (GAAP) $ (17,269 ) $ 5,894 $ 20,454 Adjustments: Interest expense non-cash (not tax-impacted) (12) 13,088 9,482 7,444 Amortization of acquired identifiable intangibles 86,193 31,538 28,333 Stock-based compensation 17,074 14,391 13,592 Contra-revenue (13) 5,272 4,869 4,215 Integration and other related costs (14) 19,831 7,045 1,583 Acquisition-related and other professional fees (14) 13,512 5,235 2,711 Acquisition-related contingent consideration changes and compensation expense, net (15) 4,180 2,028 1,777 Amortization of equity method investment basis difference (16) 2,190 2,824 3,985 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries and sale of investments (9,828 ) (33,193 ) Rebranding expense 2,068 1,909 Realized gain on sale of previously impaired securities (non-taxable) (356 ) Amended state tax returns impact (non-taxable) (19 ) Change in fair value of warrant 6,310 Accelerated depreciation of certain technology assets (17) 1,004 Tax impact of adjustments (18) (51,906 ) (25,904 ) (11,056 ) Adjusted net income (non-GAAP) $ 82,337 $ 59,095 $ 49,068 (2) We consider a dealer to be active in our U.S. network as of a date if the dealer completed at least one revenue-generating credit application processing transaction using the U.S. Dealertrack network during the most recently ended calendar month. The number of active U.S. dealers is based on the number of dealer accounts as communicated by lenders on the U.S. Dealertrack network. (3) We consider a lender to be active in our U.S. network as of a date if it is accepting credit application data electronically from U.S. dealers in the U.S. Dealertrack network. (4) Each lender to dealer relationship represents a pair between an active U.S. lender and an active U.S. dealer at the end of a given period. (5) Represents the number of dealerships in the U.S. and Canada with one or more active subscriptions at the end of a given period. Subscriptions to Dealertrack CentralDispatch have been excluded as these customers include brokers and carriers in addition to dealers . (6) Represents dealer-based subscription services revenue, including subscription revenue from partners who include our solutions in their dealer offerings, divided by average subscribing dealers for a given period in the U.S. and Canada. Revenue used in the calculation adds back (excludes) subscription related contra-revenue. In addition, subscribing dealers and subscription services revenue from Dealertrack CentralDispatch have been excluded from the calculation as a majority of these customers are not dealers. (7) Represents revenue-generated transactions processed in the U.S. Dealertrack, Dealertrack Aftermarket Services, Registration and Titling solutions, Collateral Management solutions and Dealertrack Canada networks at the end of a given period. (8) Represents the average revenue earned per transaction processed in the U.S. Dealertrack, Dealertrack Aftermarket Services, Registration and Titling solutions, Collateral Management solutions and Dealertrack Canada networks during a given period. Revenue used in the calculation adds back (excludes) transaction related contra-revenue. (9) Represents transaction services revenue divided by our estimate of total new and used car sales for the period in the U.S. and Canada. Revenue used in this calculation adds back (excludes) transaction related contra-revenue. (10) We consider a dealership to be active on our advertising platforms as of a date if they incurred advertising spend in that month. The number of advertisers at the end of the period may be impacted by the timing of manufacturer endorsed campaigns on behalf of their dealership base, for which there were approximately 225 dealerships that were part of a short term campaign at December 31, 2014. (11) Represents advertising services revenue divided by average active dealerships on our advertising platform for a given period commencing with the Dealer.com acquisition on March 1, 2014. (12) Represents interest expense relating to the amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discount in connection with the senior convertible notes, term loan B credit facility and revolving credit facility. 38 (13) For further information, please refer to Note 18 and Note 19 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (14) The adjustment for adjusted net income exceeds the adjustment for adjusted EBITDA as a result of accelerated amortization charges relating to internally developed software, which are included in the depreciation adjustment within the adjusted EBITDA reconciliation, as well as integration items and acquisition items with an interest component, which are included in the interest adjustment within the adjusted EBITDA reconciliation. (15) Represents the change in the acquisition-related contingent consideration from acquisitions and other additional acquisition-related compensation charges. (16) Represents amortization of the basis difference between the book basis of the Chrome assets contributed to the Chrome Data Solutions joint venture and the fair value of the investment in Chrome Data Solutions. (17) Represents the accelerated depreciation of certain technology assets due to the discontinuation of those projects. (18) The tax impact of adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2014, are based on a blended tax rate of 38.3% applied to taxable adjustments other than gain on sale of investment which is based on an effective tax rate of 30.9%. Additionally, the tax impact of adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes $1.8 million of incremental deferred taxes related to the acquisition of Dealer.com. The blended tax rates are based upon the statutory tax rates of 38.6% and 26.5% applied to the adjustments for U.S. and Canada, respectively. The tax impact of adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2013, is based on a U.S. statutory tax rate of 37.2% applied to taxable adjustments other than amortization of acquired identifiable intangibles and stock-based compensation expense, which are based on a blended tax rate of 37.1% and 36.8%, respectively. The tax impact of adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2012, is based on a U.S. statutory tax rate of 38.2% applied to taxable adjustments other than amortization of acquired identifiable intangibles and stock-based compensation expense, which are based on a blended tax rate of 38.1% and 37.7%, respectively. Revenue Subscription Services Revenue. Subscription services revenue consists of revenue earned primarily from our dealers and other customers (typically on a monthly basis) for use of our subscription products and services. Our subscription services enable dealers and other customers to manage their dealership data and operations, compare various financing and leasing options and programs, sell insurance and other aftermarket products, analyze, merchandise, and transport inventory and execute financing contracts electronically. Transaction Services Revenue. Transaction services revenue consists of revenue earned from our lender customers for each credit application or contract that dealers submit to them. In addition, we earn transaction services revenue from lender customers for each financing contract executed via our electronic contracting and digital contract processing solutions, as well as from our lender customers for collateral management transactions. We also earn transaction services revenue from dealers or other service and information providers, such as aftermarket providers and credit report providers, for each fee-bearing product accessed by dealers. This includes transaction services revenue for completion of on-line registrations with department of motor vehicles, completion of inventory appraisals, and accessing of credit reports. Advertising Revenue. Advertising revenue consists of amounts we charge customers for the third-party fees related to paid search campaigns and online display advertisements in connection with our advertising products. We recognize the gross amount of such advertising spend as advertising revenue. Amounts we charge to manage the allocation of advertising spend are included in subscription services revenue. Other Revenue. Other revenue consists of revenue earned primarily through training, forms programming, data conversion, hardware and equipment sales from our Dealer Management solutions, and shipping fees and commissions earned from our digital contract business. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion of revenue recognition. Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue primarily consists of direct expenses related to running our network infrastructure (including Internet connectivity, hosting expenses, and data storage), expenses incurred in implementing and maintaining website service operations, third-party advertising costs associated with certain of our search and media product offerings, data and image licensing fees, the cost of third party tools and services integrated into our various product platforms, temporary labor expenses relating to our digital contract, collateral management, and registration and titling solutions, and amounts paid to third parties pursuant to contracts under which (i) a portion of certain revenue is owed to those third parties (revenue share) or (ii) fees are due on the number of transactions processed. Cost of revenue also includes compensation and related benefits, technology consulting fees and other operating expenses for certain network and technology departments, DMS installation/training teams, CRM and digital marketing implementation teams, strategic inventory consulting and digital marketing professional service and dealer support teams and the production teams of our digital contract, registration and titling and collateral management solutions are also included. In addition, cost of revenue includes amortization expense on acquired intangible assets and capitalized software and website development costs, hardware and travel costs associated with our DMS product offering and installation/training personnel. 39 Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits, technology consulting fees and other operating expenses associated with our software engineering, project management, quality assurance and product development departments. These departments perform research and development of new product offerings, in addition to enhancing and maintaining existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits, consulting fees and other operating expenses associated with departments performing sales, marketing, customer service and administrative functions. Also included are facility costs, professional fees, amortization related to internal applications, public company costs and any other cost not deemed to be related to cost of revenue or research and development. We allocate overhead such as occupancy charges, telecommunications charges, and depreciation expense, based on headcount, as we believe this to be the most accurate measure. As a result, a portion of general overhead expenses are reflected in each operating expense category. In previous periods, certain development, engineering and quality assurance costs related to our research and development efforts were recorded within cost of revenue on our consolidated statement of operations. In conjunction with the acquisition of Dealer.com, the categories of operating expenses were reviewed and it was determined that presentation of these costs within their own caption, research and development, within operating expenses was more useful to readers of our financial statements. Product development expenses, previously presented on their own line within operating expenses, are now included as research and development expenses. In addition, certain technology and development costs relating to our internal ERP and CRM applications, which were also previously recorded in cost of revenue, are now being presented in selling, general and administrative expenses. The following tables provide a reconciliation from the prior years presentation to the current years presentation for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 Historic Adjustment Adjusted Operating Expenses: Cost of revenue $ 277,580 $ (67,654 ) $ 209,926 Product development 15,201 (15,201 ) Research and development 76,258 76,258 Selling, general and administrative 177,699 6,597 184,296 Total operating expenses $ 470,480 $ $ 470,480 Year Ended December 31, 2012 Historic Adjustment Adjusted Operating Expenses: Cost of revenue $ 220,695 $ (45,223 ) $ 175,472 Product development 11,732 (11,732 ) Research and development 53,616 53,616 Selling, general and administrative 142,518 3,339 145,857 Total operating expenses $ 374,945 $ $ 374,945 Acquisitions We have grown our business since inception through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. The operating results of each business acquired have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. Our acquisitions have been recorded under the acquisition method of accounting, pursuant to which the total purchase price is allocated to the net assets acquired, based upon estimates of the fair value of those net assets. Any excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill. Amortization expense relating to definite-lived intangible assets is recorded as a cost of revenue. On March 1, 2014, we completed our acquisition of the outstanding equity of Dealer.com for $620.8 million in cash and 8.7 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of $1,092.0 million. Dealer.com is a leading provider of comprehensive digital marketing solutions and services for the automotive retail industry. The acquisition significantly expands our digital marketing offerings to include a uniquely connected family of digital advertising solutions and services, tapping into the growing digital advertising market. We expect the acquisition to further our vision of transforming automotive retailing by delivering the most advanced solutions for dealers, OEMs, lenders and car shoppers. On July 1, 2014, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of ASR Pro for $11.6 million in cash and approximately 48,000 shares of our common stock with a value of $2.2 million. There is a potential contingent consideration obligation for up to $3.0 million, subject to attaining future revenue results of the product. ASR Pro is a leading provider of web-based electronic multipoint-inspection and fixed operations services for automotive dealerships. The acquisition expands our addressable market of software solutions to include the vehicle service and repair market. 40 In December 2014, we announced a recommended cash offer to acquire all the equity of incadea for approximately 190 pence in cash per share, for a total consideration of approximately 121.6 million ($190.8 million at the time of conversion). Incadea is a leading provider of DMS software services to the global automotive retail market. In January 2015, we completed the acquisition of incadea. Incadea has long-term relationships with a number of global OEMs and serves more than 75,000 end-users. Through this acquisition, the number of countries in which our solutions are used increased to over 90, giving us a significant presence in North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific. For further information regarding these acquisitions, please refer to Note 10 and Note 21 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of our operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported for assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Our critical accounting policies are those that we believe are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and that involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The estimates are based on historical experience and on various assumptions about the ultimate outcome of future events. Our actual results may differ from these estimates if unforeseen events occur or should the assumptions used in the estimation process differ from actual results. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when the following fundamental criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred or the services have been rendered, (iii) the fee is fixed or determinable, and (iv) collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Our revenue is presented net of a provision for sales credits, which is estimated based on historical results, and established in the period in which services are provided. Subscription Services Revenue Subscription services revenue consists of revenue earned primarily from our dealers and other customers (typically on a monthly basis) for use of our subscription products and services. Our subscription services enable dealer customers to manage their dealership data and operations, compare various financing and leasing options and programs, manage the allocation of advertising spend, sell insurance and other aftermarket products, analyze, merchandise, advertise, and transport their inventory and execute financing contracts electronically. Revenue is recognized from such contracts ratably over the contract period. Set-up fees, if applicable, are recognized ratably over the expected dealer customer relationship period, which is generally 36 to 60 months. For contracts that contain two or more subscription products and services, we recognize revenue in accordance with the above policy using the relative selling price method when the delivered products have stand-alone value. Transaction Services Revenue Lender Transaction Services Revenue Lender transaction services revenue consists of transaction revenue earned from our lender customers for (1) each electronic receipt of credit application or contract data that dealers submit to them through the Dealertrack credit application network; (2) for each financing contract executed via our electronic contracting and digital contract processing solution; and (3) for collateral management transactions. Credit Application Transaction Revenue Our web-based credit application network facilitates the online credit application process by enabling dealers to transmit a consumers credit application information to one or more lenders. Credit application revenue consists of revenue earned on a per transaction basis and set-up fees charged to lenders for establishing connections. Transaction revenue is earned upon the electronic receipt of the credit application data and set-up fees are recognized ratably over the expected customer relationship period of four years. Electronic and Digital Contracting Transaction Revenue Our eContracting product allows dealers to obtain electronic signatures and provide contract information electronically to lender customers that participate in the solution. Our digital contract processing service receives paper-based contracts from dealers, digitizes the contract and submits them in electronic format to the respective lenders. Electronic and digital contracting revenue are recognized on a per transaction basis after services have been rendered. 41 Collateral Management Services Transaction Revenue Our collateral management solution provides vehicle title and administration services for our customers, which are comprised mainly of lenders. The solution facilitates communication between our customers and the state department of motor vehicles by providing a solution for our customers to monitor title perfection and expedite the processing of liens with the state department of motor vehicles. We offer both paper-based and electronic-based title services depending on state requirements. Customer contracts for title services are principally comprised of two elements: (1) title perfection confirmation and (2) title administration. For paper-based titles, title perfection confirmation occurs upon the receipt of title and lien documentation supporting title perfection from the department of motor vehicles. For electronic-based titles, title perfection confirmation is achieved upon electronic acknowledgement that department of motor vehicles records reflect the customer as the lien holder. For paper-based titles, title administration services require us to physically hold, store and manually release the title. For electronic-based titles, title administration services require data storage. The release of the electronic title can be accomplished by the lien holder and does not require manual action by us. Deliverables for paper and electronic title management arrangements are separated into more than one unit of accounting when (i) the delivered element(s) have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, (ii) delivery of the undelivered element(s) is probable and substantially in our control, and (iii) relative selling price is determined. Based on the above criteria, paper and electronic-based collateral management service revenue are separated into two units of accounting. We recognize a portion of the paper-based transaction fee upon receipt of title and lien documentation supporting title perfection from the department of motor vehicles. For electronic-based titles, we recognize a portion of the fee upon electronic acknowledgement that the department of motor vehicles records reflect the customer as the lien holder. For paper-based title services, amounts allocated to each unit of accounting are based upon vendor-specific objective evidence. For electronic-based title services, amounts allocated to each unit of accounting are based upon estimated selling price, which is based upon an adjustment to the selling price of our individual paper-based title services, when sold separately. The adjustment to the selling price is due to the lower selling price of electronic-based services compared to paper-based services. For customers in which we bill the entire transaction fee in advance, the title administration portion of the fee for both paper and electronic-based titles is deferred and recognized over the title administration period, which is estimated at approximately three years. This estimate is based upon a historical analysis of the average time period between the date of financing and the date of pay-off. Collateral management services revenue also includes revenue earned from converting a new customers title portfolio to our collateral management solution, which may include other ancillary services. Amounts earned from converting a new customers portfolio are recognized over the customers estimated portfolio loan life which varies depending on the customer. Amounts earned from other ancillary services are recognized on a per transaction basis after services have been rendered. Dealer and Other Service Provider Transaction Services Revenue Registration Transaction Revenue Our registration and titling services solutions provide various web-based and service-bureau based automotive vehicle registration services to customers. Registration and titling services revenue is recognized on a per transaction basis after services have been rendered. Aftermarket Transaction Revenue The Dealertrack Aftermarket Network streamlines and integrates the entire aftermarket sales and submission process. Aftermarket solution providers connected to the Dealertrack Aftermarket Network enable their dealers to have free access to real-time information needed to make aftermarket sales decisions. Aftermarket services revenue is recognized on a per transaction basis after services have been rendered. Credit Bureau Transaction Revenue Our credit bureau service provides our dealer customers the ability to access credit reports from several reporting agencies or resellers online. We offer these credit reports on both a reseller and agency basis. We recognize credit bureau revenue on a per transaction basis after services have been rendered. Credit bureau revenue is recognized from all but one credit bureau provider on a net basis due to the fact that we are not considered the primary obligor, and recognized on a gross basis from one provider as we have risk of loss and are considered the primary obligor in the transaction. Other Transaction Revenue Other transaction revenue includes revenue from appraisal solutions that provide dealers the ability to complete real-time vehicle appraisals as well as revenue from compliance solutions. This transaction revenue is recognized on a per transaction basis after services have been rendered. Advertising Revenue Advertising revenue consists of amounts we charge customers for third-party fees related to paid search campaigns and online display advertisements in connection with our advertising solutions. We recognize revenue as clicks are recorded on sponsored links on the various search engines for paid search or as impressions are delivered for display advertisements. As we are the primary obligor in substantially all of our arrangements, subject to the credit risk and with discretion over price, we recognize the gross amount of such advertising spend as advertising revenue and the cost of such advertising from online search providers as cost of revenue. In instances in which we are not the primary obligor, our customers advertising spend and amounts paid to the online search providers do not impact our consolidated results of operations. In both instances, we record as subscription services revenue the amounts we charge to manage the allocation of advertising spend through our web-based advertising management software tools. 42 Other Revenue Other revenue consists of revenue primarily earned through forms programming, data conversion, hardware and equipment sales from our DMS solutions, and shipping fees and commissions earned from our digital contract business. Training fees are also included in other revenue. Other revenue is recognized when the service is rendered. Customer Funds Under contractual arrangements, our registration and titling services solution collects funds from our customers and remits such amounts to the various state departments of motor vehicle registries (registries). Customer funds receivable primarily represents transactions processed by our customers for which we have not collected our fees or the fees payable to the various registries. In addition, payments made to the various registries in advance of receipt from the customer, are recorded as customer funds receivable. Customer funds payable primarily includes transactions processed by our customers for which we have not remitted the fees to the various registries. Customer funds are maintained in separate bank accounts and are segregated from our operating cash. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. The amount of the allowance account is based on historical experience and our analysis of the accounts receivable balances outstanding. While credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, additional allowances may be required which would result in an additional expense in the period that this determination was made. Software and Website Development Costs and Amortization We capitalize costs of materials, consultants, payroll and payroll-related costs incurred by team members involved in developing internal use computer software. Costs incurred during the preliminary project and post-implementation stages are charged to expense. Software and website development costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives. Capitalized costs are generally amortized over two years while our platform updates are amortized over five years and costs related to our SAP ERP implementation and salesforce.com implementation are amortized over seven years. We perform periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized software and website costs remain recoverable from future revenue. Goodwill We record as goodwill the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as well as whenever events or circumstances change that would make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is tested for impairment using a two-step approach. The first step tests for potential goodwill impairment by comparing the fair value of our one reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the second step is to calculate and record an impairment loss to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of goodwill. Goodwill is required to be assessed at the operating segment or lower level. We determined that the components of our one operating segment have similar economic characteristics, nature of products, distribution, shared resources and type of customer such that the components should be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill. We perform our annual impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the current estimated fair value of our reporting unit to the carrying value, including goodwill. We estimate the fair value of our reporting unit by primarily using a market capitalization approach, and also looking at the outlook for the business. The results of our most recent annual assessments performed on October 1, 2014 and 2013 did not indicate any impairment of our goodwill. In each year, the fair value of our reporting unit was significantly in excess of the carrying value, which includes goodwill. As of October 1, 2014, our market capitalization was approximately $2.3 billion compared to our book value, including goodwill, of approximately $1.1 billion. In January 2015 we acquired incadea, who offers DMS and other solutions through 15 operating subsidiaries and 15 VARs in over 90 countries, giving us a significant presence globally, including Europe and the Asia-Pacific. The additional international operations from incadea may impact the number of reporting units we have for purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill. Intangibles and Long-lived Assets We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment on an individual asset basis or at the lowest level asset grouping for which cash flows can be separately identified. Intangible asset impairments are assessed whenever changes in circumstances could indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. When it is determined that impairment exists, the related asset group is written down to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows and the estimated fair value of long-lived assets, involve significant estimates on the part of management. To estimate the fair value of a long-lived asset, we may engage a third party to assist with the valuation. Our process for assessing potential triggering events may include, but is not limited to, analysis of the following: any sustained decline in our stock price below book value; 43 results of our goodwill impairment test; sales and operating trends affecting products and groupings; the impact on current and future operating results related to industry statistics including fluctuation of lending relationships between financing sources and automobile dealers, actual and projected annual vehicle sales, and the number of dealers within our network; the impact of acquisitions on the use of pre-existing long-lived assets; any losses of key acquired customer relationships; and changes to or obsolescence of acquired technology, data, and trademarks. We also evaluate the remaining useful life of our long-lived assets on a periodic basis to determine whether events or circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining estimated amortization period. Senior Convertible Notes In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options , we separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior convertible notes. The estimated fair value of the liability component is computed based on an assessment of the fair value of a similar debt instrument that does not include a conversion feature. The equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount and recorded in additional paid-in capital, represents the difference between the gross proceeds from the issuance of the notes and the estimated fair value of the liability component at the date of issuance. The debt discount is amortized over the expected life of a similar liability without the equity component. The effective interest rate used to amortize the debt discount was based on our estimated non-convertible borrowing rate of a similar liability without an equity component as of the date the notes were issued. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 740, Accounting for Income Taxes (ASC Topic 740), which requires deferred tax assets and liabilities to be recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be reversed. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Uncertain tax positions are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet in accrued liabilities other. Interest and penalties, if any, related to tax positions taken in our tax returns are recorded in interest expense and general and administrative expenses, respectively, in our consolidated statement of operations. Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Assumptions Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and recognized as an expense over the requisite service period, net of an estimated forfeiture rate. We currently have three types of stock-based compensation awards: stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units. The following summarizes stock-based compensation expense by impact to the applicable statement of operations line item and by award type, respectively, for the three years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Cost of revenue $ 1,016 $ 1,039 $ 886 Research and development 3,072 2,520 2,292 Selling, general and administrative 12,986 10,832 10,414 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 17,074 $ 14,391 $ 13,592 Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Stock options $ 4,567 $ 4,020 $ 4,608 Restricted stock units 10,131 8,223 7,101 Performance stock units 2,376 2,148 1,883 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 17,074 $ 14,391 $ 13,592 44 As further described in Notes 1 and 17 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we reclassified approximately $2.5 million and $2.3 million of stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, previously recorded in cost of revenue, product development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, to research and development. Stock-Based Compensation Assumptions and Vesting Requirements Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected life, expected stock price volatility, and the number of awards that will be forfeited before the completion of the vesting requirements. We use Black-Scholes-Merton and Monte Carlo simulation option pricing models to value our stock-based awards. Expected Life Beginning in 2013, the expected life of any issued stock-based awards is based upon our historical exercise patterns and the period of time that the awards are expected to be outstanding. Previously, due to our limited public company history, the expected life was determined based upon the experience of similar entities whose shares are publicly-traded. The expected life for stock-based awards granted before December 31, 2007 was determined based on the simplified method, due to our limited public company history. Expected Stock Price Volatility The expected volatility of any stock-based awards we issue is based on our historical volatility. Previously, due to our limited public company history, the expected volatility for stock-based awards was determined using a time-weighted average of our historical volatility and the expected volatility of similar entities whose common shares are publicly-traded. Risk-Free Interest Rate and Dividend Yield The risk-free interest rates used for all stock-based awards granted were the actual U.S. Treasury zero-coupon rates for bonds matching our expected life of an option on the date of grant. The expected dividend yield is not applicable to our stock-based award grants as we have not paid any dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock and we are currently limited in doing so pursuant to our credit facility. Option Vesting Requirements Options granted generally vest over a period of four years (three years for members of our board of directors) from the vesting commencement date, which is typically the date of grant. Options granted generally expire seven years from the date of grant, except for stock options granted before July 11, 2007, which expire ten years from the date of grant. Options, to the extent unvested, expire on the date of termination of employment, and to the extent vested, generally expire at the end of the three-month period following termination of employment, except in the case of executive officers, who under certain conditions have a twelve-month period following termination of employment to exercise. Restricted Stock Unit Vesting Requirements Restricted stock units granted are generally subject to an annual cliff vest over four years (one year for members of our board of directors) from the vesting commencement date, with the exception of performance stock unit awards. Performance Stock Unit Vesting Requirements The performance stock unit awards for 2014 and 2013 are earned upon the achievement of revenue and total stockholder return (TSR) targets and the grantees continuous employment in active service until the final vest date, which is approximately three years from the grant date. The performance stock unit awards for 2012 and 2011 are earned upon the achievement of adjusted net income (ANI) and TSR targets and the grantees continuous employment in active service until the final vest date, which is approximately three years from the grant date. Fair Value Inputs The fair value of each stock option has been estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model with the following assumptions: December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Expected volatility 39.5 40.3 % 44.0 % 47.3 49.9 % Expected dividend yield 0 % 0 % 0 % Expected life (in years) 4.60 4.60 4.18 Risk-free interest rate 1.34 1.52 % 0.65 1.31 % 0.50 0.62 % Weighted-average fair value of stock options granted $ 18.72 $ 10.86 $ 10.79 Weighted-average fair value of restricted stock units granted $ 51.62 $ 30.00 $ 28.03 45 The fair value of restricted stock units are based upon the fair value of a share of company stock on the date of grant. The fair value of TSR Performance Awards is estimated on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model. The fair value of Revenue Performance Awards and ANI Performance Awards are based upon the fair value of a share of company stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average assumptions were as follows: December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Expected dividend yield 0 % 0 % 0 % Risk-free interest rate 0.54 % 0.34 % 0.39 % Weighted-average fair value of TSR Performance Awards granted $ 49.62 69.49 $ 30.42 $ 28.98 Weighted-average fair value of Revenue Performance Awards granted $ 45.11 55.06 $ 28.87 Weighted-average fair value of ANI Performance Awards granted $ 27.99 Application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different estimates of the fair value of stock-based compensation and consequently, the related amounts recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. For further information on our stock-based compensation programs, please refer to Note 14 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. State and other Incentive Credits We participate in certain programs, primarily sponsored by state governments, whereby we receive cash incentives based on achieving certain employment and capital expenditure milestones and by participating in qualifying training activities. Credits relating to capital spend are recorded as a reduction in capital expenditures. Credits relating to employment are recorded as a reduction of operating expenses. Net Income (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, assuming dilution, during the period. The diluted earnings per share calculation assumes (i) all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period, (ii) if applicable, unvested awards that are considered to be contingently issuable shares because they contain either a performance or market condition will be included in diluted earnings per share if dilutive and if their conditions have (a) been satisfied at the reporting date or (b) would have been satisfied if the reporting date was the end of the contingency period, (iii) if applicable, potential common shares which may be issued to satisfy the conversion spread value of our senior convertible notes, and (iv) if applicable, potential common shares which may be issued to satisfy the warrants issued in conjunction with our senior convertible notes. In periods with net losses there is no dilution in the earnings per share calculation. The number of shares included in the denominator of diluted earnings per share relating to our senior convertible notes is calculated by dividing the conversion spread value by the average share price of our common stock during the period. The conversion spread value is the value that would be delivered to investors based on the terms of the notes, at the assumed conversion date. The number of shares included in the denominator of diluted earnings per share relating to the warrants issued in conjunction with our senior convertible notes is calculated using the treasury stock method, with the dilution calculated by dividing the warrant premium by the average share price of our common stock during the period. The warrant premium is the value that would be delivered to investors based on the terms of the warrants, at the assumed conversion date. Concentration of Credit Risk Our assets that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and receivables from customers. We place our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with financial institutions. We regularly evaluate the creditworthiness of the issuers in which we invest. Our trade receivables are spread over many customers. We maintain an allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable based on expected collectability and perform ongoing credit evaluations of customers financial condition. Our revenue is generated from customers in the automotive retail industry. As of December 31, 2014 one customer accounted for 11% of our accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2013, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our accounts receivable. For each of the three years ended December 31, 2014, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Segments The segment information provided in the table below is reported consistent with our method of internal reporting. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The chief operating decision maker reviews information at a consolidated level, as such we have one reportable segment. For enterprise-wide disclosure, we are organized primarily on the basis of service lines, transaction services, subscription services, and advertising and other revenues. Revenue earned in Canada for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was approximately 6%, 9% and 10% of our total net revenue, respectively. Long-lived assets in Canada were $32.3 million, $39.7 million and $44.8 million as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 46 Supplemental disclosure of revenue by service type for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, is as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Subscription services revenue $ 346,756 $ 181,731 $ 145,148 Transaction services revenue 332,641 276,861 225,011 Advertising and other revenue 175,018 22,942 18,713 Total net revenue $ 854,415 $ 481,534 $ 388,872 Fair Value Measurements We have segregated all financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine fair value at the measurement date. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of contingent consideration, a Level 3 liability, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014 is as follows (in thousands): Balance as of December 31, 2012 $ (1,000 ) Change in fair value of contingent consideration ClickMotive (2) 500 Balance as of December 31, 2013 $ (500 ) Change in fair value of contingent consideration ClickMotive (2) 250 Payment of contingent consideration ClickMotive (2) 250 Record fair value of contingent consideration in purchase accounting - ASR Pro (1) (1,050 ) Change in fair value of contingent consideration ASR Pro (1) (1,050 ) Balance as of December 31, 2014 $ (2,100 ) (1) In connection with our July 1, 2014 acquisition of substantially all of the assets of ASR Pro, a portion of the purchase price included contingent consideration of up to $3.0 million payable in 2017 based upon the achievement of certain revenue performance targets in 2015 and 2016. The fair value of the revenue contingent consideration is determined based upon probability-weighted revenue forecasts for the underlying period. The contingent consideration will be revalued each reporting period, until settled, with the resulting gains and losses recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. We recorded expense of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as a result of the increase in the estimated settlement of the contingent consideration from the estimated amount of $1.0 million as of the July 1, 2014 acquisition date. (2) In connection with our October 1, 2012 acquisition of ClickMotive, a portion of the purchase price included contingent consideration that was payable in 2014 based upon the achievement of certain performance targets in 2013. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined based upon probability-weighted revenue forecasts for the underlying period. The total contingent consideration was revalued each reporting period, until settled, with the resulting gains and losses recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The consideration was settled in the second quarter of 2014 for $0.3 million and no liability remains. We recorded income of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as a result of a decrease in the estimated settlement of the contingent consideration from the estimated amount of $0.5 million as of December 31, 2013. 47 Results of Operations The following table sets forth the selected consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 $ Amount % of Net Revenue $ Amount % of Net Revenue $ Amount % of Net Revenue (In thousands, except percentages) Consolidated Statements of Operations: Net revenue $ 854,415 100 % $ 481,534 100 % $ 388,872 100 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue 469,940 55 % 209,926 44 % 175,472 45 % Research and development 104,121 12 % 76,258 16 % 53,616 14 % Selling, general and administrative 292,531 34 % 184,296 38 % 145,857 38 % Total operating expenses 866,592 101 % 470,480 98 % 374,945 96 % (Loss) income from operations (12,177 ) (1 )% 11,054 2 % 13,927 4 % Interest income 458 0 % 510 0 % 745 0 % Interest expense (33,980 ) (4 )% (13,262 ) (3 )% (10,801 ) (3 )% Other (expense) income, net (746 ) 0 % 614 0 % (5,528 ) (1 )% Earnings from equity method investment, net 7,959 1 % 5,651 1 % 1,167 0 % Gain on disposal of subsidiaries and sale of other assets 9,828 1 % % 33,193 9 % (Loss) income before benefit from (provision for) income taxes, net (28,658 ) (3 )% 4,567 1 % 32,703 8 % Benefit from (provision for) income taxes, net 11,389 1 % 1,327 0 % (12,249 ) (3 )% Net (loss) income $ (17,269 ) (2 )% $ 5,894 1 % $ 20,454 5 % 48 Years Ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Revenue Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Subscription services revenue $ 346,756 $ 181,731 $ 165,025 91 % Transaction services revenue 332,641 276,861 55,780 20 % Advertising and other revenue 175,018 22,942 152,076 663 % Total net revenue $ 854,415 $ 481,534 $ 372,881 77 % Subscription Services Revenue. The increase in subscription services revenue was primarily a result of additional subscription services revenue from the acquisitions of Customer Focused Marketing, Inc. (CFM) in 2013, and Dealer.com and ASR Pro in 2014, as well as from organic growth. The increase in subscription services revenue was a result of the following changes in our key business metrics. Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent Average monthly subscription revenue per subscribing dealership (1)(2) $ 1,188 $ 767 $ 421 55 % Subscribing dealers in U.S. and Canada as of end of the period (2) 24,336 18,464 5,872 32 % (1) - Revenue used in the calculation adds back (excludes) contra revenue. (2) - Subscribing dealers and subscription revenue from Dealertrack CentralDispatch have been excluded from the calculation as a majority of these customers are not dealers. Our average monthly subscription revenue per subscribing dealer and the number of subscribing dealers increased 55% and 32%, respectively. Dealer.com, CFM, and ASR Pro in 2014 contributed $145.6 million to subscription services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. As we integrate our offerings, revenue from certain previous customers, including the historic Interactive solution, are reflected within the revenue of Dealer.com, which impacts comparison to historical amounts. In addition, we had continued success in selling DMS, Inventory and F&I solutions, including our ability to cross sell those solutions to existing customers, which increased the average monthly spend per subscribing dealer. Transaction Services Revenue. The increase in transaction services revenue was primarily due to increased market share, the 2013 acquisitions of Casey & Casey and Vintek, Inc. (Vintek), increased automobile sales, increased application activity, and improving credit availability. These factors had a positive impact on the following changes in our key business metrics. Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent Average transaction price (1) $ 2.83 $ 2.76 $ 0.07 3 % Transaction revenue per car sold $ 9.43 $ 8.08 $ 1.35 17 % Active lenders in our U.S. network as of end of the period 1,539 1,410 129 9 % Active lender to dealer relationships as of end of the period 202,086 191,135 10,951 6 % Transactions processed (in thousands, except percentages) 119,409 101,925 17,484 17 % (1) - Revenue used in the calculation adds back (excludes) contra revenue. Our average transaction price and the total number of transactions processed increased 3% and 17%, respectively, which resulted in an increase in revenue of $7.9 million and $48.2 million, respectively, offset by additional contra-revenue of $0.3 million. Contributing factors to the increase in average transaction price and the total number of transactions processed included increases of 9% in active lender customers in our U.S. Dealertrack network and a 6% increase in our active lender to dealer relationships, as well as an increase in car sales volumes and transaction pricing. While new lender customers are generally lower transaction volume customers, they have higher average prices per transaction. Additional volumes of Registration & Titling solutions and Collateral Management solutions (including the additional volume from Vintek acquired on October 1, 2013), which are at a higher average price than our other transactions, also contributed to the increase in average transaction price and the total number of transactions processed. The increase in our number of active lender to dealer relationships was attributable to more active dealers, more active lenders in our U.S. network, and an increase in the average number of lenders that dealers use. In addition, expanded use across our range of transaction products increased our transaction revenue per car sold. The Vintek acquisition also contributed $14.0 million of transaction services revenue in the nine month period ended September 30, 2014 (prior to comparability on October 1, 2014). The Casey & Casey acquisition contributed $2.1 million of transaction services revenue in the three month period ended March 31, 2014 (prior to comparability on April 1, 2014). 49 Advertising and Other Revenue. The increase in advertising and other revenue was primarily due to the acquisition of Dealer.com and its advertising products relating to paid search and display advertising. These industry trends had a positive impact on the following changes in our key business metrics: Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent Active dealerships on advertising platform as of end of the period (1) $ 7,525 * * * Average monthly advertising spend per dealer rooftop 1,982 * * * * Historical amounts not applicable. (1) The number of advertisers at the end of the period may be impacted by the timing of manufacturer endorsed campaigns on behalf of their dealership base, for which there were approximately 225 dealerships that were part of a short term campaign as of December 31, 2014. Advertising and other revenue increased $152.1 million primarily due to the Dealer.com acquisition in March 2014, which contributed $150.0 million to the total increase. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 469,940 $ 209,926 $ 260,014 124 % Research and development 104,121 76,258 27,863 37 % Selling, general and administrative 292,531 184,296 108,235 59 % Total operating expenses $ 866,592 $ 470,480 $ 396,112 84 % Cost of Revenue. The increase was attributable to an addition of $144.5 million in direct costs of revenue due to the acquisitions of Casey & Casey, Vintek, CFM, Dealer.com and ASR Pro. Compensation and related benefit costs increased $28.5 million, primarily due to additional team members, including those from acquisitions. Other increases included $54.7 million of intangible amortization expense, $10.8 million of amortization of software development costs and $10.1 million of technology expenses, including technology consulting and other related expenses. The increase in amortization expense was primarily a result of additional acquired intangibles as well as $11.4 million from charges relating to changes in expected asset use. Technology expenses also include $3.2 million of charges relating to changes in expected asset use. Research and Development Expenses. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $24.3 million in compensation and related benefit costs primarily due to additional team members, including those from acquisitions, and $1.8 million in depreciation expense. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. The increase was primarily the result of $64.7 million of additional compensation, stock based compensation and related benefit costs, primarily due to additional team members, including those from acquisitions, and $6.1 million of additional transaction related costs, primarily from the Dealer.com and incadea acquisitions. There were also increases of $8.3 million in additional technology consulting and related expenses associated with our internal and support systems, $6.4 million in travel and related costs, $5.2 million in professional fees (including integration costs), $4.0 million of marketing expenses, $3.8 million in depreciation expense, and $3.2 million in occupancy and telecom costs (primarily acquisition-related). Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (33,980 ) $ (13,262 ) $ (20,718 ) 156 % The following table sets forth the interest expense components for the period: Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Convertible notes - coupon interest $ 3,000 $ 3,000 $ % Convertible notes - amortization of debt discount 8,589 8,037 552 7 % Convertible notes - amortization of debt issuance costs 1,063 995 68 7 % Term loan B credit facility - cash interest $ 16,500 $ $ 16,500 100 % Term loan B credit facility - amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount 1,363 1,363 100 % Term loan B credit facility - loss on extinguishment of debt 518 518 100 % 2014 and 2011 revolving credit facilities - commitment fees $ 746 $ 443 $ 303 68 % 2014 and 2011 revolving credit facilities - amortization of debt issuance costs 1,554 450 1,104 245 % Other $ 647 $ 337 $ 310 92 % Total $ 33,980 $ 13,262 $ 20,718 156 % 50 Gain on Sale of Assets Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Gain on sale of assets $ 9,828 $ $ 9,828 100 % During 2014, we recorded a gain of $9.8 million on the sale of our shares of TrueCar, Inc. Earnings from Equity Method Investment, Net Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Earnings from equity method investment, net $ 7,959 $ 5,651 $ 2,308 41 % The net earnings from the Chrome Data Solutions joint venture for 2014 consisted of our 50% share of the joint venture net income of $10.1 million, which was reduced by approximately $2.2 million of basis difference amortization. The net earnings for 2013 consisted of our 50% share of the joint venture net income of $8.5 million, which was reduced by approximately $2.8 million of basis difference amortization. Benefit from Income Taxes, Net Year Ended December 31, Variance 2014 2013 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Benefit from income taxes, net $ 11,389 $ 1,327 $ 10,062 758 % The net benefit from income taxes for 2014 consisted of $15.8 million of federal income tax benefit, $1.0 million of state income tax expense and $3.4 million of tax expense for our Canadian subsidiary. The federal income tax benefit includes a $1.6 million benefit from the general business credit and a $1.9 million benefit from a decrease in valuation allowances. The benefits were offset by an increase in capitalized, non-deductible deal costs associated with acquisitions of $1.8 million. The state income tax expense was primarily related to the change in the state tax rate applied to our deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the Dealer.com acquisition. The net benefit from income taxes for 2013 of $1.3 million consisted of $3.9 million of federal income tax benefit, $0.9 million of state income tax benefit and $3.5 million of tax expense for our Canadian subsidiary. The state income tax benefit includes $0.2 million of deferred tax expense which resulted from a change in state apportionment primarily due to 2013 acquisitions. The federal income tax benefit includes a $1.3 million benefit from general business credits and a $0.8 million benefit from a decrease in valuation allowance, including the impact of approved federal filing adjustments. This resulted in an effective tax rate for 2014 which was a benefit of 39.7% compared with a benefit of 29.1% for 2013. Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Revenue Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Subscription services revenue $ 181,731 $ 145,148 $ 36,583 25 % Transaction services revenue 276,861 225,011 51,850 23 % Advertising and other revenue 22,942 18,713 4,229 23 % Total net revenue $ 481,534 $ 388,872 $ 92,662 24 % Subscription Services Revenue. The increase in subscription services revenue was primarily a result of organic growth, as well as additional subscription services revenue from the 2012 acquisitions of Dealertrack CentralDispatch and ClickMotive, and the 2013 acquisitions of CFM and certain assets of Nexteppe Business Solutions, Inc. (Nexteppe). The net increase in subscription services revenue was a result of the following changes in our key business metrics. 51 Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent Average monthly subscription revenue per subscribing dealership (1)(2) $ 767 $ 708 $ 59 8 % Subscribing dealers in U.S. and Canada as of end of the period (2) 18,464 17,619 845 5 % (1) - Revenue used in the calculation adds back (excludes) contra revenue. (2) - Subscribing dealers and subscription revenue from Dealertrack CentralDispatch have been excluded from the calculation as a majority of these customers are not dealers. Our average monthly subscription revenue per subscribing dealer and the number of subscribing dealers increased 8% and 5%, respectively. In 2013, the subscription services revenue for CentralDispatch and ClickMotive contributed a combined $35.3 million to subscription services revenue, compared to $8.9 million after their respective acquisition dates in 2012. The 2013 acquisitions of CFM and certain assets of Nexteppe contributed $2.0 million of total subscription services revenue in 2013 after their respective acquisition dates. In addition, we had continued success in selling DMS and F&I solutions, including our ability to cross sell those solutions to existing customers, which increased the average monthly spend per subscribing dealer. Transaction Services Revenue. The increase in transaction services revenue was primarily due to an increase in automobile sales, increased application activity, and improving credit availability. Transaction services revenue also increased as a result of the acquisitions of Casey & Casey on April 1, 2013 and Vintek on October 1, 2013. These factors had a positive impact on the following changes in our key business metrics. Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent Average transaction price (1) $ 2.76 $ 2.61 $ 0.15 6 % Transaction revenue per car sold $ 8.08 $ 6.95 $ 1.13 16 % Active lenders in our U.S. network as of end of the period 1,410 1,261 149 12 % Active lender to dealer relationships as of end of the period 191,135 174,628 16,507 9 % Transactions processed (in thousands, except percentages) 101,925 87,833 14,092 16 % (1) - Revenue used in the calculation adds back (excludes) contra revenue. Our average transaction price and the total number of transactions processed increased 6% and 16%, respectively, which resulted in an increase in revenue of $15.8 million and $36.7 million, respectively, offset by additional contra-revenue of $0.6 million. Contributing factors to the increase in average transaction price and the total number of transactions processed included increases of 12% in active lender customers in our U.S. Dealertrack network and a 9% increase in our active lender to dealer relationships, as well as an increase in car sales volumes. While new lender customers are generally lower transaction volume customers, they have higher average prices per transaction. Additional transaction volumes of Registration & Titling solutions and Collateral Management solutions, which are at a higher average price than our other transactions, also contributed to the increase. The increase in our number of active lender to dealer relationships was attributable to more active dealers, more active lenders on our U.S. network, and an increase in the average number of lenders that dealers use. In addition, expanded use across our range of transaction products increased our transaction revenue per car sold. The Casey & Casey and Vintek acquisitions also contributed $6.2 million and $3.7 million of transaction services revenue in 2013, respectively. Advertising and Other Revenue. The increase in advertising and other revenue was primarily from our Dealer Management solutions. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 209,926 $ 175,472 $ 34,454 20 % Research and development 76,258 53,616 22,642 42 % Selling, general and administrative 184,296 145,857 38,439 26 % Total operating expenses $ 470,480 $ 374,945 $ 95,535 25 % Cost of Revenue. The increase was primarily the result of $7.3 million of additional compensation and related benefit costs primarily due to additional team members from the 2013 acquisitions of Casey & Casey, CFM and Vintek, as well as the 2012 acquisitions of Dealertrack CentralDispatch and ClickMotive. In addition, we incurred $2.1 million in additional technology expenses, including technology consulting and other related expenses. 52 There were also increases of $3.2 million of direct cost of revenue for our Registration & Titling solutions and Collateral Management solutions (volume related), $4.5 million of direct cost of revenue for ClickMotive (acquired in October 2012), $1.9 million of direct cost of revenue for CFM and Vintek (acquired in October 2013), and $1.6 million of direct cost of revenue for DMS. Other increases included $5.8 million of amortization of software development costs, $3.4 million of intangible amortization expense, $1.3 million in occupancy and telecom costs, and $0.8 million in depreciation expense. The increase in intangible amortization expense was primarily a result of additional acquired intangibles from acquisitions. The additional occupancy and telecom costs are a result of incremental team members and facilities, including those from acquisitions, as well as $0.3 million of rent acceleration as a result of vacating the former ClickMotive office space. Research and Development Expenses. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $11.8 million in compensation and related benefit costs primarily due to additional team members, including those from acquisitions. In addition, we incurred $8.7 million in additional technology expenses, and $1.1 million of additional occupancy and telecom expense. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $20.4 million in compensation and related benefit costs primarily due to additional team members, including those from acquisitions. There were additional increases of $0.9 million in marketing and related expenses, $2.2 million in travel and related costs, $4.0 million in professional fees (including acquisition and integration costs), $1.4 million in occupancy and telecom costs (primarily acquisition-related), $4.4 million of general and administrative costs, including those from acquired entities including Casey & Casey, ClickMotive, and Vintek, $0.9 million in recruiting and relocation, $3.3 million in additional technology consulting and related expenses associated with our internal and support systems, and $0.9 million in depreciation. These increases were offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in software development cost amortization, primarily due to accelerated depreciation for discontinued technology which occurred in 2012. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (13,262 ) $ (10,801 ) $ (2,461 ) 23 % Interest expense related to the convertible notes for 2013 consisted of coupon interest of $3.0 million, amortization of debt discount of $8.0 million, and amortization of debt issuance costs of $1.0 million. Interest expense related to our revolving credit facility for 2013 consisted of commitment fees of $0.4 million and amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.4 million. Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Other income (expense), net $ 614 $ (5,528 ) $ 6,142 (111 )% The increase in other income (expense), net was primarily due to a $6.3 million decrease in the value of our warrant in TrueCar during 2012. Included in 2013 was $0.4 million of realized gains on the sale of marketable securities. Earnings from Equity Method Investment, Net Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Earnings from equity method investment, net $ 5,651 $ 1,167 $ 4,484 384 % The net earnings from the Chrome Data Solutions joint venture for 2013 consisted of our 50% share of the joint venture net income of $8.5 million, which was reduced by approximately $2.8 million of basis difference amortization. The net earnings for 2012 consisted of our 50% share of the joint venture net income of $5.2 million, which was reduced by approximately $4.0 million of basis difference amortization. 53 Gain on Disposal of Subsidiaries and Sale of Other Assets Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Gain on disposal of subsidiaries and sale of other assets $ $ 33,193 $ (33,193 ) (100 )% During 2012, we recorded a gain on the contribution of the net assets of Chrome to the Chrome Data Solutions joint venture in the amount of $27.7 million and a gain of $5.5 million related to the sale of a Chrome-branded asset, which was not contributed to the joint venture. Benefit from (Provision for) Income Taxes, Net Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ Amount Percent (In thousands, except percentages) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes, net $ 1,327 $ (12,249 ) $ 13,576 (111 )% The net benefit for income taxes for 2013 of $1.3 million consisted of $3.9 million of federal income tax benefit, $0.9 million of state income tax benefit and $3.5 million of tax expense for our Canadian subsidiary. The state income tax benefit includes $0.2 million of deferred tax expense which resulted from a change in state apportionment primarily due to 2013 acquisitions. The federal income tax benefit includes a $1.3 million benefit from general business credits and a $0.8 million benefit from a reduction in our valuation allowance, including the impact of approved federal filing adjustments. Included in our tax provision for 2012 was $1.5 million of income tax benefit in the U.S., $3.2 million of provision for Canadian subsidiaries and $10.5 million of income tax provision for discrete items. Provision for discrete items included $10.5 million on the gain recorded in conjunction with the contribution of the net assets of Chrome for the investment in Chrome Data Solutions, $1.3 million of provision from the elimination of the Chrome deferred tax assets and goodwill, income tax provision of $1.8 million on the gain recorded from the sale of a Chrome-branded asset net of a reduction in valuation allowance resulting from the asset sale, $2.4 million of benefit on the change in value of our warrant in TrueCar, $0.5 million of benefit from a change in state income tax rates and $0.2 million of benefit from tax return filings. This resulted in an effective tax rate for 2013 which was a benefit of 29.1% compared with a provision of 37.5% for 2012. Quarterly Results of Operations The following table presents our unaudited quarterly consolidated results of operations for each of the eight quarters in the two year period ended December 31, 2014. The unaudited quarterly consolidated information has been prepared substantially on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. You should read the following tables presenting our quarterly consolidated results of operations in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements for our full years and the related notes. This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for the fair statement of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. The operating results for any quarters are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for any future period. (Unaudited) (in thousands, except for per share data) First Second Third Fourth Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter 2014 Net revenue $ 158,808 $ 224,767 $ 233,520 $ 237,320 Gross profit (1) 68,901 105,306 108,275 101,993 (Loss) income from operations (22,633 ) 3,533 9,135 (2,212 ) Net (loss) income (11,642 ) (1,375 ) 2,108 (6,360 ) Basic net (loss) income per share (2) $ (0.25 ) $ (0.03 ) $ 0.04 $ (0.12 ) Diluted net (loss) income per share (2) (3) $ (0.25 ) $ (0.03 ) $ 0.04 $ (0.12 ) Weighted average common stock outstanding (basic) 47,351 53,642 53,935 54,109 Weighted average common stock outstanding (diluted) (3) 47,351 53,642 55,829 54,109 First Second Third Fourth Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter 2013 Net revenue $ 109,059 $ 121,782 $ 124,582 $ 126,111 Gross profit (1) 60,849 69,785 70,724 70,250 Income (loss) from operations 751 7,629 6,912 (4,238 ) Net (loss) income (34 ) 3,839 5,795 (3,706 ) Basic net (loss) income per share (2) $ (0.00 ) $ 0.09 $ 0.13 $ (0.08 ) Diluted net (loss) income per share (2) (3) $ (0.00 ) $ 0.09 $ 0.13 $ (0.08 ) Weighted average common stock outstanding (basic) 43,173 43,545 43,796 43,931 Weighted average common stock outstanding (diluted) (3) 43,173 44,881 45,757 43,931 54 (1) Gross profit is calculated as net revenue less cost of revenue. (2) The addition of earnings per share by quarter may not equal total earnings per share for the year, as a result of the weighted average shares outstanding calculation. (3) There is additional dilution that can occur when the average price of our common stock per quarter exceeds the $37.37 conversion price on our senior convertible notes and the $46.18 warrant strike price. Certain quarters above had an average common stock price that exceeded the conversion price on our senior convertible notes and the warrant strike price, but the additional dilutive shares were not reflected due to the net loss for the period. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details. Liquidity and Capital Resources We expect that our liquidity requirements will continue to be primarily for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, scheduled payments of our term loan B, revolving credit facility and convertible notes, and for general corporate purposes. We expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our liquidity requirements for the next twelve months (including capital expenditures and acquisitions) through working capital and net cash flows from operations, cash on hand, investments in marketable securities and our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2014, we had $332.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, $2.1 million in short-term marketable securities, $352.6 million in working capital and $65.0 million available for borrowing under our $225.0 million revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2013, we had $122.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, $10.6 million in short-term marketable securities and $135.8 million in working capital. In addition, pursuant to a shelf registration statement we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 11, 2014, we may offer and sell shares of common stock from time to time in amounts, at prices and on terms we determine at the time of the offering. The shelf registration statement expires in August 2017. Our capital expenditures, software and website development costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $92.9 million, of which $85.6 million was paid in cash. We do not have any material commitments for capital expenditures as of December 31, 2014 and we expect to fund our future capital expenditures from working capital. On February 28, 2014, Dealertrack and one of our subsidiaries, Dealertrack Canada, Inc., entered into a new Credit Agreement (the 2014 Credit Agreement), which provides credit facilities aggregating $800.0 million, including a $575.0 million term loan B credit facility and a $225.0 million revolving credit facility. The proceeds of the term loan B credit facility were used to pay the cash consideration for the acquisition of Dealer.com, to pay in full interest amounts due under our prior Credit Agreement (the 2011 Credit Agreement), to pay the fees and expenses related to the acquisition of Dealer.com and the refinancing of the 2011 Credit Agreement, and for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2014, $548.6 million of the term loan B credit facility remained outstanding. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes of Dealertrack and its subsidiaries (including certain acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments). Up to $25.0 million of the revolving credit facility may be used to obtain letters of credit, up to $25.0 million of the revolving credit facility may be used to obtain swing line loans, and up to $35.0 million of the revolving credit facility may be used to obtain revolving loans and letters of credit in Canadian Dollars. In December 2014, we borrowed $160.0 million on our revolving credit facility. This borrowing, along with an additional $30.8 million of cash on hand, was converted to Great British Pounds and was placed in escrow to provide funding for the acquisition of incadea. The balance in the escrow fund account is reflected on our consolidated balance sheet within cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2014. Incadea has a 19.6 million line of credit which contains a change in control provision. We expect to use cash on hand to extinguish this line of credit in the first quarter of 2015. As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants and financial ratios under the 2014 Credit Agreement. On March 5, 2012, we issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% senior convertible notes in a private placement. In connection with the offering of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with initial purchasers of the notes or their respective affiliates. The net proceeds from the offering were $178.8 million after deducting the initial purchasers fees and offering expenses, as well as the cost of the hedge transactions and warrant proceeds. A holder of the notes may convert the notes under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, if on any date before any calendar quarter prior to October 15, 2016 the closing sale price of our common stock was more than 130% of the then current conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the period of the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous calendar quarter. The closing sale price of our common stock did not exceed $48.58 (130% of the conversion price of $37.37) for at least 20 of the last 30 trading days of the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result, the senior convertible notes may not be surrendered for conversion during the calendar quarter following December 31, 2014. As there is no potential conversion, the net carrying value of the senior convertible notes was presented as a long-term liability on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014. It is our intent to settle the par value of the notes in cash, and we expect to have the liquidity to do so, through the use of cash, our revolving credit facility, or a combination thereof. 55 There are no required debt payments, exclusive of interest, until the maturity date of our convertible debt in March 2017, and the maturity date of our revolving line of credit in February 2019. There are no required principal payments on our term loan B credit facility until December 2018. For further information concerning the 2014 Credit Agreement, including the term loan B credit facility and the revolving credit facility, and our senior convertible notes, please refer to Note 12 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In February 2014, we signed agreements to sell all of our equity interest in TrueCar. We received proceeds of $92.5 million from the sale of the shares, which had a carrying value of $82.7 million. This resulted in a gain of $6.8 million, net of taxes. The tax liability on the taxable gain of approximately $58.8 million was reduced by the utilization of tax attributes for the year ended December 31, 2014. We used a portion of the proceeds from the sale as part of the purchase consideration for the acquisition of Dealer.com. On March 1, 2014, we completed our acquisition of the outstanding equity of Dealer.com for $620.8 million in cash and 8.7 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of $1,092.0 million. For further information, please refer to Note 10 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On June 30, 2014, we made payments of $26.4 million to reduce the outstanding balance of our term loan B credit facility. On July 1, 2014, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of ASR Pro for $11.6 million in cash and approximately 48,000 shares of our common stock with a value of $2.2 million. There is a potential contingent consideration obligation for up to $3.0 million, subject to attaining future revenue results of the product. For further information, please refer to Note 10 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In December 2014, we announced a recommended cash offer to acquire all the equity of incadea for approximately 190 pence in cash per share, for a total consideration of approximately 121.6 million ($190.8 million at the time of conversion). In January 2015, we completed the acquisition of more than 99% of the outstanding shares of incadea. Canada Included in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2014 was $41.1 million of cash and cash equivalents held by our Canadian subsidiary. Our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside the United States, and current plans do not anticipate that we will need funds generated by our Canadian subsidiary to fund our domestic operations. In the event funds from our Canadian subsidiary are needed to fund operations in the United States, we would be subject to additional income and withholding taxes upon repatriation. Cash Flow Components The following table sets forth the cash flow components for the following periods (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 30,390 $ 82,385 $ 70,723 Net cash used in investing activities $ (540,508 ) $ (105,855 ) $ (198,164 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 723,213 $ 3,610 $ 192,074 Operating Activities Years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 The decrease in net cash provided by operations of $52.0 million is primarily due to a decrease in net income of $23.2 million, and a decrease of $73.5 million in operating assets and liabilities, offset by changes in non-cash items which increased operating cash flow by $44.6 million. The decrease in cash flows from net changes in operating assets and liabilities is primarily due to increased accounts receivable of $16.9 million, the decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $25.8 million, and the decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $32.3 million. The changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and prepaid expenses include the impact of the payment of acquired liabilities from the Dealer.com acquisition, as well as the tax amounts receivable and due to acquirees. See Note 15 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The net non-cash items include an additional increase in deferred tax benefit of $19.8 million, primarily the result of the gain from the sale of our investment in TrueCar, which resulted in a reduction in deferred tax expense and an increase in current tax expense. The non-cash items also include an increase of $7.7 million in windfall tax benefits and $9.8 million of realized gain on the sale of our TrueCar investment. These were offset by additional depreciation and amortization of $74.0 million, primarily due to increased amortization from acquired intangibles and the impairment of certain assets, additional amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount of $3.6 million, and additional provision for doubtful accounts and sales credits of $4.0 million. Our operating cash flows in 2014 were adversely impacted by the payment in the first quarter of approximately $69.0 million of acquired Dealer.com liabilities and the deferred tax benefit of $31.1 million, which includes the impact of the sale of our investment in TrueCar in the first quarter. Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 The increase in net cash provided by operations of $11.7 million is primarily due to non-cash items, including a $33.2 million gain recorded from the contribution of the net assets of Chrome for our investment in Chrome Data Solutions during 2012, an increase in depreciation and amortization of $10.8 million, additional amortization of debt issuances costs and debt discount of $1.9 million, and an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts and sales credits of $2.7 million. These increases were offset by a reduction in net income of $14.6 million, a decrease in the deferred tax provision of $12.1 million, the prior year change in warrant fair value of $6.3 million, additional earnings from our equity method investment of $4.5 million, and net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $1.1 million. 56 Investing Activities Years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 The increase in net cash used in investing activities of $434.7 million was primarily the result of a payment of $555.9 million for the acquisition of Dealer.com and ASR Pro, net of acquired cash, offset by $92.5 million of proceeds from the sale of our cost method investment in TrueCar. Other changes included an increase in capital expenditures, software and website development costs of $37.2 million, a decrease in purchases of marketable securities of $21.8 million, and a decrease in sales and maturities of marketable securities of $40.6 million. The increase in capital expenditures reflects our continued investment in the development of our products, as well as our ERP and CRM systems. Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 The decrease in net cash used in investing activities of $92.3 million was primarily the result of a decrease in purchases of marketable securities of $43.2 million, a decrease in the payments for acquisitions of $44.5 million, an increase in the proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $23.3 million, and the $1.8 million of cash which was included in the contribution of the net assets of Chrome to the Chrome Data Solutions joint venture in 2012. These decreases were offset by an increase in capital expenditures, software and website development costs of $15.7 million and $5.5 million of proceeds from the sale of a Chrome branded asset in 2012. The decrease in cash used for acquisitions relates to the $129.9 million of funds used in 2012 for the acquisitions of Dealertrack CentralDispatch, ClickMotive and the Ford iCONNECT DMS business, net of acquired cash, as compared to the $85.4 million used in 2013 for the acquisitions of Casey & Casey, CFM, Vintek and Nexteppe, net of acquired cash. The increase in capital expenditures reflected our continued investment in the development of our products, as well as our SAP ERP and salesforce.com CRM systems. The use of marketable securities was related to our 2013 acquisitions. Financing Activities Years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 The increase in net cash provided by financing activities of $719.6 million is due to borrowings under our term loan B credit facility in the amount of $575.0 million and $160.0 million on our revolving credit facility. These borrowings were reduced by principal payments of $26.4 million on our term loan B credit facility, financing costs recorded as debt discounts and debt issuances costs in the amount of $16.7 million, and purchases of treasury stock of $6.7 million. In addition, there were $15.1 million of additional proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $7.7 million of additional windfall tax benefits. Further, the increase in net cash provided by financing activities increased due to the repayment of a note payable of $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities of $188.5 million is due to the March 2012 issuance of our senior convertible notes of $200.0 million and the repayment of a note payable in 2013 of $11.4 million. These decreases were offset by the 2012 net payment for a call spread overlay of $14.2 million related to the senior convertible notes. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2014 (in thousands): Less Than After Total 1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 Years 5 Years Senior convertible notes (1) $ 207,500 $ 3,000 $ 204,500 $ $ Term loan B credit facility (2) 664,028 18,244 36,152 41,282 568,350 Revolving credit facility (3) 160,000 160,000 Notes payable - Dealer.com acquisition (4) 8,875 567 929 1,006 6,373 Note payable - Vintek consideration (4) 4,055 4,055 Operating lease obligations (5) 224,489 14,259 34,890 30,145 145,195 Capital lease obligations 232 107 124 1 Hosting and data licensing agreements (6) 12,075 6,301 5,475 299 Advertising agreement (7) 56,000 15,000 41,000 Continuing employment compensation 2,695 2,695 Contingent consideration (8) 12,600 5,250 7,350 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,352,549 $ 69,478 $ 330,420 $ 232,733 $ 719,918 (1) Our 1.50% convertible senior notes mature on March 15, 2017, unless repurchased or converted before maturity. The amounts in the table assume the payment of interest on our senior convertible notes through their maturity date and the payment of the $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of the notes at their maturity date. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually in March and September. The senior convertible notes will be convertible, subject to certain conditions, into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at our option. It is our intent to settle the par value of the notes in cash, and we expect to have the liquidity to do so. 57 (2) Our term loan B credit facility matures on February 28, 2021. The disclosure includes any quarterly required principal payments and assumes the payment of interest through its maturity date and the payment of the remaining principal amount of the term loan at the maturity date. Interest on the notes is payable quarterly and is assumed to be at a rate of 3.25%, which was the rate in effect as of December 31, 2014. A voluntary principal payment of $25.0 million in June 2014 was applied against mandatory prepayments in sequential order and no additional principal payments are required to be made until the quarter ending December 31, 2018. (3) Our revolving credit facility matures on February 28, 2019. Interest on loans made in U.S. Dollars under this revolving credit facility accrues, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to (1) the ABR plus a margin ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% depending upon our consolidated first lien leverage ratio or (2) LIBOR for an interest period to be selected by us plus a margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% depending upon our consolidated first lien leverage ratio. (4) For further information please refer to Note 10, in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (5) Operating lease obligations includes the lease for our new headquarters facility, which provides for an initial base rent of approximately $7.6 million in the first year of the lease term, with increases of 2.5% annually thereafter, subject to increases of 3.0% if the Consumer Price Index for the prior twelve months has been equal to or greater than 4.0%. In addition, we will be responsible for additional rent to cover certain taxes and insurance charges. The lease, which has an initial term of seventeen years with an option to extend the term of the lease for an additional ten years, is expected to commence in 2016. The contractual obligation disclosure reflects commencement on July 1, 2016, the midpoint of the expected commencement year, with 2.5% annual increases. (6) We have agreements with third parties to provide services for hosting operations and to license the use of data and images. The agreements require a payment of a minimum amount per month for a fixed period of time in return for which the hosting service provider provides certain services and we may use certain data and images. Additional payments are required when usage exceeds the minimums. All agreements expire by January 2019, with optional renewals. (7) We have an agreement with a third party for the purchase of advertising impressions which contains an option to cancel after December 31, 2017. The agreement requires us to make minimum payments on an annual basis for the purchase of impressions. Any impressions purchased under the annual minimum commitment that are not consumed in the year can be carried forward to be used for the first six months of the following year. (8) Contingent consideration includes a $10.5 million contingency acquired as part of the acquisition of Dealer.com. The Dealer.com acquired contingency was fully funded as part of total acquisition consideration and any amounts not paid to settle the contingency will be returned to the seller ($5.25 million in 2015 and $5.25 million in 2016). Contingent consideration also includes a contingency due in 2017 for up to $3.0 million related to our acquisition of ASR Pro, which is reflected at its current fair value of $2.1 million as of December 31, 2014. For further information on the ASR Pro contingent consideration, see Note 3 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Contractual Obligations Pursuant to employment or severance agreements with certain team members, we have a commitment to pay severance of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2014, in the event of termination without cause, as defined in the agreements, as well as certain potential gross-up payments to the extent any such severance payment would constitute an excess parachute payment under the Internal Revenue Code. Additionally, in the event of termination without cause due to a change in control, we would also have a commitment to pay additional severance of $3.1 million as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, $0.9 million is accrued under severance agreements which are to be paid over the next two years. The total liability for the uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively, which may be reduced by a federal tax benefit, if paid. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we have accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns of approximately $0.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements or relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which are typically established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Effects of Inflation Our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, receivables, long-term investments, and our non-monetary assets, consisting primarily of intangible assets and goodwill, are not affected significantly by inflation. We believe that replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. However, the rate of inflation affects our expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the prices of products and services we offer. 58 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2013-11 , Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists . The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2013, with early adoption permitted. We adopted this standard effective beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2014. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. This guidance is based on a principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period, using one of two retrospective application methods. Early adoption is not permitted. We are currently evaluating the application method and expected impact of this new ASU on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period . The guidance requires that a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. The guidance will be effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Preparation of Financial Statements Going Concern . The amendments in this ASU provide guidance about managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entitys ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. The guidance will be effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.