Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We commenced operations in the software development and professional services business during 1990. The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and assumptions. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience of operations and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies, among others, will affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. -16- Table of Contents Income Taxes In determining the carrying value of the Companys net deferred income tax assets, the Company must assess the likelihood of sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions, to realize the benefit of these assets. If these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may record a reduction in the valuation allowance, resulting in an income tax benefit in the Companys statements of operations. Management evaluates whether or not to realize the deferred income tax assets and assesses the valuation allowance quarterly. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when all of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the service has been provided to the customer, (iii) the collection of our fees is probable and (iv) the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the length of the agreement beginning on the commencement dates of each agreement or when revenue recognition conditions are satisfied. For a fee, subscriptions provide the customer with access to the software and data over the Internet, or on demand, and provide technical support services and software upgrades when and if available. Under subscriptions, customers do not have the right to take possession of the software and such arrangements are considered service contracts. Accordingly, we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the length of the agreement and professional services are recognized as incurred based on their relative fair values. In situations where we have contractually committed to an individual customer specific technology, we defer all of the revenue for that customer until the technology is delivered and accepted. Once delivery occurs, we then recognize the revenue ratably over the remaining contract term. When subscription service is paid in advance, deferred revenue is recognized and revenue is recorded ratably over the term as services are consumed. Set up fees paid by customers in connection with subscription services are deferred and recognized ratably over the life of the applicable agreement. Hosting, premium support and maintenance service revenue is derived from services beyond the basic services provided in standard arrangements. We recognize hosting, premium service and maintenance revenue ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contact or when revenue recognition conditions are satisfied. In instances where hosting, premium support or maintenance service is paid in advance, deferred revenue is recognized and revenue is recording ratably over the term as services are consumed. We also sell software licenses. For software license sales, we recognize revenue when all of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the service has been provided to the customer, (iii) the collection of our fees is probable and (iv) the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. Licenses generally include multiple elements that are delivered up front or over time. Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the hosting and support elements is based on the price charged at renewal when sold separately, and the license element is recognized into revenue upon delivery. The hosting and support elements are recognized ratably over the contractual term. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The Company records compensation expense on a straight-line basis. The fair value of options granted are estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions for the risk-free interest rate, expected life, volatility, dividend yield and forfeiture rate. Capitalization of Software Development Costs The Company accounts for research costs of computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed as expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached shortly after a working prototype is complete and meets or exceeds design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Costs incurred after technological feasibility is established have been and will continue to be capitalized until such time as when the product or enhancement is available for general release to customers. -17- Table of Contents Goodwill and Long-lived Assets Goodwill is assigned to specific reporting units and is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually or more frequently upon the occurrence of an event or when circumstances indicate that a reporting unit's carrying amount is greater than its fair value. Management reviews the long-lived tangible and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Management evaluates, at each balance sheet date, whether events and circumstances have occurred which indicate possible impairment. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired when the anticipated cumulative undiscounted cash flows of the related asset or group of assets is less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair market value of the long-lived asset. Economic useful lives of long-lived assets are assessed and adjusted as circumstances dictate. ITE M 3.