Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Statements made herein are as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report with the Securities and Exchange Commission and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date.Unless otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake, and specifically disclaim any obligation, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. 1 PART I ITEM I.BUSINESS Overview Park City Group, Inc., a Nevada corporation (Park City Group, We, us, our or the Company) is a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) provider, and the parent company of ReposiTrak, Inc., a Utah corporation (ReposiTrak) which operates a business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce, compliance, and supply chain management platform that partners with retailers, wholesalers, and product suppliers to help them source, vet, and transact with their suppliers in order to accelerate sales, control risks, and improve supply chain efficiencies, and source hard-to-get-things. The Companys services are grouped in three application suites: (i) ReposiTrak MarketPlace (MarketPlace), encompassing the Companys supplier discovery and B2B e-commerce solutions, which helps the Companys customers find new suppliers; (ii) ReposiTrak Compliance and Food Safety (Compliance and Food Safety) solutions, which help the Companys customers vet suppliers to mitigate the risk of doing business with these suppliers; and (iii) ReposiTraks Supply Chain (Supply Chain) solutions, which help the Companys customers to more efficiently manage their various transactions with their suppliers. The Companys Supply Chain and MarketPlace services provide its customers with greater flexibility in sourcing products by enabling them to choose new suppliers and integrate them into their supply chain faster and more cost effectively, and it helps them to manage these relationships more efficiently, enhancing revenue while lowering working capital, labor costs and waste. The Companys Compliance and Food Safety solutions help reduce a companys potential regulatory, legal, and criminal risk from its supply chain partners by providing a way for them to ensure these suppliers are compliant with food safety regulations, such as the Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011 (FSMA). The Companys services are delivered though proprietary software products designed, developed, marketed and supported by the Company. These products provide visibility and facilitate improved business processes among all key constituents in the supply chain, starting with the retailer and moving backwards to suppliers and eventually to raw material providers. The Company provides cloud-based applications and services that address e-commerce, supply chain, food safety and compliance activities. The principal customers for the Companys products are household name multi-store food retail chains and their suppliers, branded food manufacturers, food wholesalers and distributors, and other food service businesses. The Company has a hub and spoke business model. The Company is typically engaged by retailers and wholesalers (Hubs), which in turn require their suppliers (Spokes) to utilize the Companys services. The Company is incorporated in the state of Nevada and has three principal subsidiaries: PC Group, Inc., a Utah corporation (98.76% owned) (PCG Utah); Park City Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (100% owned) (PCG Delaware); and ReposiTrak (100% owned) (PCG Utah, PCG Delaware, and ReposiTrak are, collectively, the Subsidiaries). All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in the Companys consolidated financial statements, which contain the operating results of the operations of PCG Delaware and ReposiTrak. Park City Group has no business operations separate from the operations conducted through its Subsidiaries. The Companys principal executive offices are located at 5282 South Commerce Drive, Suite D292, Murray, Utah 84107. Its telephone number is (435) 645-2000. Its website address is www.parkcitygroup.com, and ReposiTraks website address is www.repositrak.com. Recent Developments Dividend Payment On September 19, 2023, the Companys Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.015 per share ($0.06 per year), payable to shareholders of record on September 29, 2023, to be paid to shareholders of record on or about November 11, 2023. Based on the closing price on September 29, 2023, this represented an annual dividend yield of approximately 1.06%. Subsequent quarterly dividends will be paid within 45 days of the shareholders of record date of December 31, March 31, June 30 and September 30. Redemption and Retirement of Preferred Stock On September 12, 2023, the Company announced its plans to commence the redemption and retirement of its Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B-1 Preferred Stock (together, the Preferred Stock) for their stated value, or $10.70 for each share of Preferred Stock, resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $8,964,214 (the Preferred Redemption). The Preferred Redemption is to occur over the next three years from September 12, 2023. 2 Global Pandemics, Bank Failures, and Geopolitical Conflicts The impact of global pandemics, including COVID 19, banking failures, geopolitical conflicts, including the war in Ukraine, creates much uncertainty in the global marketplace. Management continues to monitor the ongoing impact of these events on all aspects of its business, including how they impact its services, customers, employees, vendors, and business partners now and in the future. While these events did not materially adversely affect the Companys financial results and business operations in the year ended June 30, 2023, we are unable to predict the impact that these events, including geopolitical conflicts, will have on its future financial position and operating results due to numerous uncertainties. FSMA Section 204(d) In 2020, the United States Food & Drug Administration (FDA) announced the New Era of Smarter Food Safety blueprint. It outlines achievable goals to enhance traceability, improve predictive analytics, respond more rapidly to outbreaks, address new business models, reduce contamination of food, and foster the development of stronger food safety cultures. But one particular section of the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA), Section 204(d) which has to deal with traceability, was left incomplete when the regulation was enacted in 2011. FDA has been working for the last few years to define exactly what traceability means and what is required to comply with that section of the law. As part of the 2020 New Era announcement, FDA published the Food Traceability List or (FTL). FDA used a risk assessment model to identify 16 of the highest-risk categories to start with. There is not a single grocery retailer who does not sell these items. These 16 categories represent thousands of individual items and FDA has made it clear in its communications the categories on the FTL are only the beginning. FDA states that they would encourage the voluntary adoption of these practices industry-wide, which means more categories are expected to be added over time. On November 7, 2022, FDA announced the final rule on FSMA Section 204(d) and proposes it would become effective 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. The proposed compliance date for all persons subject to the recordkeeping requirements would be 2 years after the effective date of the final regulation. For traceability, FDA requires the capture, creation and sharing of specific key data elements (KDE) at each designated Critical Tracking Event (CTE) for every item and every shipment. FDA also requires the data be stored for two years and be retrievable and presented to them within 24 hours upon request. FSMA 204 is ultimately about recording all movement of inventories through the supply chain. The result is an enormous amount of data to manage. At the root, it is a supply chain data management issue, which is ReposiTraks core expertise. Thats why weve made it our goal to develop a traceability solution thats easy, inexpensive and exceeds FDAs requirements with the guidance of industry thought leaders gathered in the Food Traceability Leadership Consortium. As the largest connected network of food suppliers, wholesalers and retailers in the world, the ReposiTrak Traceability Network is well positioned to provide end-to-end traceability to provide a safer food supply chain, tighten control on food waste and implement a food recall response that saves lives and money. Company History The Companys technology has its genesis in the operations of Mrs. Fields Cookies, a company co-founded by Randall K. Fields, the Companys Chief Executive Officer. The Company began operations utilizing patented computer software and profit optimization consulting services to help its retail clients reduce their inventory and labor costs. On January 13, 2009, the Company acquired 100% of Prescient Applied Intelligence, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Prescient), a provider of solutions for retailers which, among other things, captured information about transactions between retailers and their suppliers. In February 2014, Prescient changed its name to Park City Group, Inc. As a result, both Park City Group and PCG Delaware were named Park City Group, Inc. 3 In June 2015, the Company elected to exercise an option to acquire a 75% interest in ReposiTrak from Leavitt Partners, LP for a cash payment and negotiated the purchase of the remaining 25% with an exchange of shares of the Company. As a result, ReposiTrak became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. As of June 30, 2020, the Company completed its Supply Chain and Compliance and Food Safety, and MarketPlace supplier discovery and B2B e-commerce solution. As a result, the Company is now largely capable of delivering its services through a single ReposiTrak branded user interface. As of June 30, 2023, the Company was substantially complete with its Audit Management solution providing a wide variety of Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) approved audits. The new solution will help improve quality and safety by making audits more efficient and accurate through better corrective actions management and documentation. Target Industries Overview The Company develops its software and services for multi-store retail chains, wholesalers and distributors, and their suppliers. The bulk of the Companys customers are in the U.S. consumer retail sector for food, convenience store, and general merchandise, although the Companys software and services are not sold exclusively to this customer base, and the Company believes that its software and services are also applicable to a wide variety of other potential customers domestically and abroad. Backdrop The U.S. consumer retail sector in general, which includes food, convenience store, and general merchandise retailers more acutely, are facing pressure from several significant forces. These include (i) increased competitive pressures from the rise of online retailers, (ii) increased regulatory and tort risks, particularly for food retailers, as a result of the passage of the FSMA which placed greater responsibility for the safety of products on the participants in the food supply chain, and (iii) the pressure from consumers to increase product diversity, and in particular, the number of smaller, localized vendors. Solutions and Services The Companys software and services are designed to address the business problems faced by our customers. These solutions are delivered via a cloud-based infrastructure and grouped in three product application suites that mirror the workflow of the Companys customers as they manage the activities of their supply chain. Key Application Suites ReposiTrak MarketPlace is the Companys supplier discovery and B2B e-commerce solution. MarketPlace provides the Companys customers with greater flexibility in sourcing products by enabling them to screen and choose suppliers based on a wide variety of criteria, including, but not limited to, compliance characteristics, and then to integrate these suppliers into their supply chain faster and more cost effectively. MarketPlace helps the Companys customers respond to competitive pressures from online retailers by providing them with greater capabilities to increase local sourcing, tailor their product offering to local market tastes, and stock their stores appropriately for local events. MarketPlace is also beneficial to suppliers connected to ReposiTraks platform in that they can use MarketPlace to highlight the products that they sell to generate incremental sales. The business model for MarketPlace continues to evolve. In fiscal 2022, the Company primarily acted as an agent for suppliers and provided supply chain technology services for a monthly subscription fee. In prior years, at the customers request, the Company has acted as the supplier for certain products whereby the Company secures products for a customer, adds a markup, and delivers the product for a profit. Given the risk and uncertainties in the supply chain including price volatility, lower margins, and transactional revenue versus recurring revenue, the Company has reverted back to primarily acting as an agent for MarketPlace customers; however, there are no assurances that the Company may not opportunistically pursue acting as a supplier if the economic outcome is more in line with the margins of its other software solutions. ReposiTrak Compliance and Food Safety Solutions help the Companys customers reduce potential regulatory and legal risk from their supply chain partners. The Company does this by providing a way of gathering the array of documents that may be needed for the customer to determine that its suppliers are compliant with a wide variety of criteria including, but not limited to, food safety regulations, such as those required by the FMSA and general business compliance standards such as adequate liability insurance. The Companys Compliance and Food Safety solutions currently include four main applications: Vendor Validation, Compliance Management, QMS and Track & Trace. ReposiTrak also hosts and is integrated with the food safety audit database of the SQFI. SQFI is one of the leading schemas for certifying that a food retailers suppliers are compliant with GFSI standards, which many food retailers require of their suppliers as a condition of doing business. SQFI is owned and operated by the FMI, one of the food industrys largest trade associations. 4 ReposiTrak Supply Chain Solutions help the Companys customers to more efficiently manage relationships with suppliers so that they can stock less and sell more by reducing inventory, labor costs and waste while also increasing revenue. The Company is a leader in helping its customers to manage their relationship with Direct Store Delivery (DSD) suppliers. The Company has observed that its customers are shifting a greater percentage of their product mix to DSD suppliers to lower their operating costs. Through a process known as Scan Based Trading (SBT) the Company enables its customers to sell products from DSD suppliers on a consignment basis, which lowers their working capital requirements by shifting the financial burden of the inventory to the supplier. Other Supply Chain solutions include ScoreTracker, Vendor Managed Inventory, Store Level Ordering and Replenishment, Enterprise Supply Chain Planning, Audit Management solutions, Fresh Market Manager and ActionManager, all of which are designed to aid the Companys customers in managing inventory, auditing, managing product mix and labor while improving sales through the reduction of out of stocks by improving visibility and forecasting. ProfessionalServices The Company has two professional services groups: (i) the Business Analytics Group offers business-consulting services to suppliers and retailers in the grocery, convenience store and specialty retail industries; and (ii) the Professional Services Group provides consulting services to ensure that our solutions are seamlessly integrated into our customers business processes as quickly and efficiently as possible. Technology, Development and Operations Product Development The Companys product development strategy is focused on creating common technology elements that can be leveraged in multiple applications across our core markets. To remain competitive, the Company is currently designing, coding and testing new products and developing expanded functionality of its current products. Operations We currently serve our customers from a third-party data center hosting facility. Along with the Companys Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 certification Service Organization Control (SOC2), the third-party facility is also a SSAE No. 16 SOC2 certified location and is secured by around-the-clock guards, biometric screening and escort-controlled access, and is supported by multiple on-site backup generators in the event of a power failure. Customers The Company is currently engaged primarily by food-related consumer goods retailers, wholesalers, and their suppliers. The bulk of the Companys customers are in the U.S. consumer retail sector for food, convenience stores, and general merchandise. However, the Company is opportunistic and will offer its solutions to a wide variety of other potential customers. No single customer exceeded 10% of the Companys total revenue in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023. Sales, Marketing and Customer Support Sales and Marketing Through a focused and dedicated sales effort designed to address the requirements of each of its solutions, the Company believes it is well positioned to understand its customers businesses, trends in the marketplace, competitive products and opportunities for new product development. 5 The Companys primary marketing objectives have been to increase awareness of our solutions, generate sales leads and develop new customer relationships. To this end, the Company attends industry trade shows, conducts direct marketing programs and webinars, publishes industry trade articles, participates in interviews and selectively advertises in industry publications. In fiscal 2016, the Company embarked on a process of repurposing the Companys supply chain applications so that they can be delivered via ReposiTraks highly scalable online infrastructure. As a result, the Company is now largely capable of delivering its services through a single ReposiTrak branded user interface. With the convergence of the Companys solutions to a single delivery platform, the Company also reorganized its sale force and reoriented its marketing efforts. This process involved streamlining the sales force to enable cross-selling by reducing regional account managers and shifting our sales emphasis towards the Companys inside remote sales team located largely in Utah. Customer Support The Companys global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries from its customers relating to how to use its solutions and is available to customers by telephone and email. Basic customer support during business hours is available to customers. Premier customer support includes extended availability and additional services and is available along with additional support services such as developer support and partner support for an additional fee. Competition The Company competes with a myriad of software vendors, developers and integrators, B2B exchanges, consulting firms, focused solution providers, and business intelligence technology platforms. Although our competitors are often considerably larger companies in size with larger sales forces and marketing budgets, the Company believes that its deep industry knowledge, the breadth and depth of our offerings, and our long-standing relationships with key industry, wholesaler, and other trade groups and associations, gives it a competitive advantage. Patents and Proprietary Rights The Company relies on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our name. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. The Company has been awarded nine U.S. patents, and a number of U.S. registered trademarks and U.S. copyrights relating to its software technology and solutions. The Companys patent portfolio has been transferred to an unrelated third party, although the Company retains the right to use the licensed patents in connection with its business. The Companys policy is to continue to seek patent protection for all developments, inventions and improvements that are patentable and have potential value to the Company and to protect its trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information, and the Company intends to defend its intellectual property rights to the extent its resources permit. The Company is not aware of any patent infringement claims against it; however, there are no assurances that litigation to enforce patents issued to the Company to protect proprietary information, or to defend against the Companys alleged infringement of the rights of others will not occur. Should any such litigation occur, the Company may incur significant litigation costs, and it may result in resources being diverted from other planned activities, which may have a materially adverse effect on the Companys operations and financial condition. Employees As of June 30, 2023, the Company employed a total of 69 employees. Of these employees, 17 are located overseas. The Company plans to continue expanding its offshore workforce to augment its analytics services offerings, expand its professional services and to provide additional programming resources. The employees are not represented by any labor union. 6 Reports to Security Holders The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Accordingly, it files annual, quarterly and other reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of these reports, proxy and information statements and other information may be obtained by electronic request at the following e-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov. Government Regulation and Approval Like all businesses, the Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including regulations relating to patent, copyright, and trademark law matters. Cost of Compliance with Environmental Laws The Company currently has no costs associated with compliance with environmental regulations and does not anticipate any future costs associated with environmental compliance; however, there can be no assurance that it will not incur such costs in the future. ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS An investment in our Common Stock is subject to many risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, including the financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to invest in our Common Stock. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed by any of the following risks.The trading price of our Common Stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company We have incurred losses in the past and there can be no assurance that we willoperate profitably in the future. Our marketing strategy emphasizes sales of subscription-based services, instead of annual licenses, and using Spokes to connect to our Hubs. This strategy has resulted in the development of a foundation of retail and wholesale Hubs to which suppliers can be connected, thereby accelerating future growth. If, however, this marketing strategy fails, revenue and operations will be negatively affected. We had net income of $5,590,289 for the year ended June 30, 2023, compared to a net income of $4,003,095 for the year ended June 30, 2022. Although we generated a year over year increase in net income in the year ended June 30, 2023, there can be no assurance that we will achieve profitability in future periods. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to generate revenue or have sustainable profits. If we do not operate profitably in the future, our current cash resources will be used to fund our operating losses. Continued losses would have an adverse effect on the long-term value of our Common Stock and any investment in the Company. Our business is dependent upon the continued services of our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields.Should we lose the services of Mr. Fields, our operations will be negatively impacted. Our business is dependent upon the expertise and continued service of our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Randall K. Fields. Mr. Fields is essential to our operations. Accordingly, an investor must rely on Mr. Fields management decisions that will continue to control our business affairs. We currently maintain key man insurance on Mr. Fields life in the amount of $5,000,000; however, that coverage may not be adequate to compensate for the loss of his services. The loss of the services of Mr. Fields may have a materially adverse effect upon our business. Quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate, which makes it difficult to predict future performance. Management expects a significant portion of our revenue stream to come from the sale of monthly subscriptions and professional services charged to new customers. These amounts will fluctuate and are uncertain because predicting future sales is difficult and involves speculation. In addition, we may potentially experience significant fluctuations in future operating results caused by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers requirements; 7 the renewal rates for our subscriptions and other services; changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; the cost, timing and management effort for the introduction of new services, including new features to our existing services; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; new product and service introductions by our competitors; variations in the revenue mix of editions or versions of our service; technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions or upgrade their services, or delay a prospective customers purchasing decision, or reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates; timing of additional expenses and investments in infrastructure to support growth in our business; regulatory compliance costs; consolidation in the food industry; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; the timing of stock awards to employees and the related financial statement impact; and system or service failures, security breaches or network downtime. Future operating results may fluctuate because of the foregoing factors, making it difficult to predict operating results. Period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. In addition, a large portion of our expense will be fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to facilities and personnel making future operating results sensitive to fluctuations in revenue. We face threats from competing and emerging technologies that may affect our revenue growth and profitability, as well as competitors that are larger and have greater financial and operational resources that may give them an advantage in the market. Markets for our type of software products and that of our competitors are characterized by development of new software, software solutions or enhancements that are subject to constant change; rapidly evolving technological change; and unanticipated changes in customer needs. Because these markets are subject to such rapid change, the life cycle of our products is difficult to predict. As a result, we are subject to the following risks: whether or how we will respond to technological changes in a timely or cost-effective manner; whether the products or technologies developed by our competitors will render our products and services obsolete or shorten the life cycle of our products and services; and whether our products and services will achieve market acceptance. 8 Moreover, many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do. This may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers in the industry, which could result in a loss of potential or current customers or could force us to lower prices. Our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources to the development of new technologies that provide improved operating functionality and features to their product and service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our product and service offerings less desirable to customers, again resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price we can demand for our offerings. Any of these actions could have a significant effect on revenue. We face risks associated with new product introductions. Our future revenue is dependent upon the successful and timely development of new and enhanced versions of our products and potential product offerings suitable to the customers needs. If we fail to successfully upgrade existing products and develop new products, and those new products do not achieve market acceptance, our revenue will be negatively impacted. It may be difficult for us to assess risks associated with potential new product offerings: it may be difficult for us to predict the amount of service and technological resources that will be needed by customers of new offerings, and if we underestimate the necessary resources, the quality of our service will be negatively impacted, thereby undermining the value of the product to the customer; technological issues between us and our customers may be experienced in capturing data necessary for new product offerings, and these technological issues may result in unforeseen conflicts or technological setbacks when implementing these products, which could result in material delays and even result in a termination of the engagement; a customers experience with new offerings, if negative, may prevent us from having an opportunity to sell additional products and services to that customer; if customers do not use our products as recommends and/or fail to implement any needed corrective action(s), it is unlikely that customers will experience the business benefits from these products and may, therefore, be hesitant to continue the engagement as well as acquire any other products from us; and delays in proceeding with the implementation of new products for a new customer will negatively affect our cash flow and our ability to predict cash flow. We cannot accurately predict renewal or upgrade rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their initial subscription period. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our service, customers ability to continue their operations and spending levels, consolidation, other competitive solutions, taking the process in-house, and deteriorating general economic conditions. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our service or reduce the level of service at the time of renewal, our revenue will decline, and our business will suffer. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to increase rates, sell additional features and services, or sell additional subscriptions to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales and marketing efforts that are targeted at senior management. If these strategies fail, we will need to refocus our efforts toward other solutions, which could lead to increased development and marketing costs, delayed revenue streams, and otherwise negatively affect our operations. If our compliance and food safety solutions do not perform as expected, whether as a result of operator error or otherwise, it could impair our operating results and reputation. Our success depends on the food safety markets confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality reporting for our customers. We believe that our customers are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and operator errors, including if our systems fail to accurately report issues that could reduce the liability of our clients in the event of a product recall. In addition, our reputation and the reputation of our products can be adversely affected if our systems fail to perform as expected. However, if our customers or potential customers fail to implement and use our systems as suggested by us, they may not be able to deal with a recall as effectively as they otherwise could have. As a result, the failure or perceived failure of our products to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and business. 9 If a customer is sued because of a recalled product, we could be joined in that suit, the defense of which would impair our operating results. We believe our compliance and food safety solutions would be helpful in the event of a recall. However, their ultimate usefulness is dependent on how the customer uses our products, which is in many ways out of our control. Similarly, a customer that is a defendant in a product liability case could claim that had our services performed as represented the extent of potential liability would have been minimized and therefore, we should have some contributory liability in the case. Defending such a claim could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and business. The deployment of our services, or consultation provided by our personnel, could result in litigation naming us as a party, which litigation could result in a material and adverse effect on us, and our results of operations. Our compliance and food safety solutions are marketed to potential customers based, in part, on our services ability to reduce a companys potential regulatory, legal, and criminal risk from its supply chain partners. In the event litigation is commenced against a customer based on issues caused by a constituent in the supply chain, or consultation provided by our personnel, we could be joined or named in such litigation. As a result, we could face substantial defense costs. In addition, any adverse determination resulting in such litigation could have a material and adverse effect on us, and our results of operations. We face risks relating to the sale and delivery of merchandise to customers. We depend on a number of other companies to perform functions critical to our ability to deliver products to our customers, including maintaining inventory, preparing merchandise for shipment to our customers and delivering purchased merchandise on a timely basis. We also depend on the delivery services that we and they utilize. We also depend on our partners to ensure proper labelling of products. Issues or concerns regarding product safety, labelling, content or quality could result in consumer or governmental claims. In limited circumstances, we sell merchandise that we have purchased. In these instances, we assume the risks related to inventory. We face risks associated with proprietary protection of our software. Our success depends on our ability to develop and protect existing and new proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials primarily through a combination of patents, trademarks, and copyright laws, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, there are no assurances that we will be successful in doing so. Our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In some types of situations, we may rely in part on shrink wrap or point and click licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. While we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as the United States. We can offer no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not reverse engineer or independently develop similar technology. We may discover software errors in our products that may result in a loss of revenue, injury to our reputation or subject us to substantial liability. Non-conformities or bugs (errors) may be found from time to time in our existing, new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenue or injury to our reputation. In the past, we have discovered errors in our products and as a result, have experienced delays in the shipment of products. Errors in our products may be caused by defects in third-party software incorporated into our products. If so, we may not be able to fix these defects without the cooperation of these software providers. Because these defects may not be as significant to the software provider as they are to us, we may not receive the rapid cooperation that may be required. We may not have the contractual right to access the source code of third-party software, and even if we do have access to the code, we may not be able to fix the defect. In addition, our customers may use our service in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data. Since our customers use our products for critical business applications, any errors, defects or other performance problems could hurt our reputation and may result in damage to our customers business. If that occurs, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. Customers could also elect not to renew their subscription or delay or withhold payment to us. These potential scenarios, successful or otherwise, would likely be time-consuming and costly. 10 Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facility could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from a third-party data center hosting facility located in the United States. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. As we continue to add capacity, we may move or transfer our data and our customers data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. Further, any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, our production environment and all of our customers data is currently replicated in near real-time in a separate facility physically located in a different region of the United States. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customers data, our data or our information technology systems, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise during transfer of data to additional data centers or at any time, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information, such as usernames, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business/operating margins, revenues and competitive position. 11 The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting our information. The expenses associated with protecting our information could reduce our operating margins. Failure or delay in the implementation of Section 204(d) of the FSMA may slow the adoption of our technology as a compliance tool for FMSA 204. In September 2020, the FDA proposed a rule for Record Keeping for Food Traceability as part of the FSMA (FSMA 204), which was published in November 2022 and went into effect in January 2023. FSMA 204 will apply to all foods on the FDAs Food Traceability List. In the event (i) FSMA 204 is postponed or delayed, (ii) modified to the extent of applicability of the rules of FSMA 204 to various food industry sectors, (iii) the penalties for violations of FSMA 204 are reduced or eliminated, or (iv) delay or failure by the industry to adopt practices in compliance with FSMA 204, in each case, could slow the adoption of our technology as a compliance tool for FSMA 204, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on several factors, including general economic conditions. The United States and other key international economies have experienced in the past a downturn in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. For example, in March 2022, the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI), which measures a wide-ranging basket of goods and services, rose 8.5% from the same month a year ago, which represents the largest CPI increase since December of 1981. The Companys general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such inflationary fluctuations, economic downturns, volatile business environments and continued unstable or unpredictable economic and market conditions. These conditions affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers ability or willingness to purchase our enterprise cloud computing services, delay prospective customers purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts or affect renewal rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results, or cause us to increase our prices to maintain the same level of profitability. Geopolitical conflicts could potentially affect our sales and disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Geopolitical conflicts, including the recent war in Ukraine, could adversely impact our operations or those of our customers. The extent to which these events impact our operations and those of our customers will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. If the uncertainty surrounding geopolitical conflicts and in the global marketplace continues, or if we, or any of our customers encounter any disruptions to our or their respective operations, facilities or stores, then we or they may be prevented or delayed from effectively operating our or their business, respectively, and the marketing and sale of our services and our financial results could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future, which could result in volatility in the price of our Common Stock. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fluctuate, the price of our Common Stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to several factors, including, but not limited to, those listed and identified throughout this Risk Factors section. 12 The limited public market for our Common Stock may adversely affect an investors ability to liquidate an investment in us. Although our Common Stock is currently quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, there is limited trading activity. We can give no assurance that an active market will develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. If an investor acquires shares of our Common Stock, the investor may not be able to liquidate such shares of our Common Stock should there be a need or desire to do so. Future issuances of our shares may lead to future dilution in the value of our Common Stock, will lead to a reduction in shareholder voting power and may prevent a change in control. The shares of our Common Stock may be substantially diluted due to the following: issuance of Common Stock in connection with funding agreements with third parties and future issuances of Common Stock and the Companys Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 (Preferred Stock) by the Board of Directors; and the Board of Directors has the power to issue additional shares of Common Stock and Preferred Stock and the right to determine the voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation, preferences and other conditions of the shares without shareholder approval. Common Stock and/or Preferred Stock issuances may result in reduction of the book value or market price of outstanding shares of Common Stock. If we issue any additional shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, proportionate ownership of Common Stock and voting power will be reduced. Further, any new issuance of Common Stock or Preferred Stock may prevent a change in control or management. Our officers and directors have significant control over us, which may lead to conflicts with other stockholders over corporate governance. Our officers and directors control approximately 46% of our Common Stock. Randall K. Fields, our Chief Executive Officer, controls 37% of our Common Stock. Consequently, Mr. Fields, individually, and our officers and directors, as stockholders acting together, can significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as mergers or other business combination transactions. Our corporate charter contains authorized, unissued blank check Preferred Stock issuable without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests. Our articles of incorporation currently authorize the issuance of up to 30,000,000 shares of blank check Preferred Stock with designations, rights, and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors, of which 700,000 shares are currently designated as Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (Series B Preferred) and 550,000 shares are designated as Series B-1 Preferred Stock (Series B-1 Preferred). As of June 30, 2023, a total of 625,375 shares of Series B Preferred and 212,402 shares of Series B-1 Preferred were issued and outstanding. Our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more additional series of Preferred Stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights that could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, holders of our Common Stock. The issuance of an additional series of Preferred Stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Although we have recently declared quarterly cash dividends on our Common Stock, investors should consider the potential for us to terminate the payment of dividends as a factor when determining whether to invest in us. Historically, we have not paid dividends on our Common Stock. Although we recently declared quarterly cash dividends on our Common Stock, in the future we may elect to retain earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. Our Board of Directors will determine our future dividend policy at their sole discretion, and future dividends will be contingent upon future earnings, if any, obligations of the stock issued, our financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors. Future dividends may also be affected by covenants contained in loan or other financing documents, which we may execute in the future. Therefore, there can be no assurance that quarterly dividends will continue to be paid on our Common Stock. 13 Our officers and directors have limited liability and indemnification rights under our organizational documents, which may impact our results. Our officers and directors are required to exercise good faith and high integrity in the management of our affairs. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, however, provide that the officers and directors shall have no liability to the stockholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in their respective managerial capacities unless they violated their duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend or stock repurchase or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. As a result, an investor may have a more limited right to action than they would have had if such a provision were not present. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws also require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any losses or liabilities they may incur as a result of the manner in which they operate our business or conduct our internal affairs, provided that the officers and directors reasonably believe such actions to be in, or not opposed to, our best interests, and their conduct does not constitute gross negligence, misconduct or breach of fiduciary obligations. ITEM 2.PROPERTIES Our principal place of business operations is located at 5282 South Commerce Drive, Suite D292, Murray, Utah 84107. We lease approximately 5,000 square feet at this corporate office location, consisting primarily of office space, conference rooms and storage areas. Our telephone number is (435) 645-2000. Our website address is http://www.parkcitygroup.com. ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of our business. Historically, the outcome of all such legal proceedings has not, in the aggregate, had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. There are no pending or threatened material legal proceedings at this time. ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II ITEM 5.MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Share Price History Our Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol PCYG. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Common Stock for the periods indicated: Quarterly Common Stock Price Ranges 2023 2022 Fiscal Quarter Ended High Low High Low September 30 $ 6.60 $ 4.31 $ 5.77 $ 4.81 December 31 $ 5.64 $ 4.57 $ 6.40 $ 4.90 March 31 $ 6.60 $ 4.83 $ 10.68 $ 5.12 June 30 $ 10.50 $ 6.24 $ 6.02 $ 4.06 14 Dividends Outstanding shares of Series B Preferred and Series B-1 Preferred each accrue dividends at the rate per share of 7% per annum if paid by the Company in cash, and 9% per annum if paid by the Company in additional shares of Series B-1 Preferred. Dividends on the Series B Preferred and Series B-1 Preferred are payable quarterly. During the year ended June 30, 2023, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.015 per share of Common Stock for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2022, December 31, 2022, March 31, 2023 and June 30, 2023. We currently intend to continue to declare and pay a quarterly cash dividend on Common Stock equal to $0.015 per share ($0.06 per year) following our board of directors' periodic review of our financial condition and results of operations for each fiscal quarter. The dividend rate and the continued payment of dividends will depend upon our board of directors' consideration of a number of factors, including capital requirements, our financial condition and results of operations, statutory and regulatory limitations, tax considerations and general economic conditions. Although we have declared a quarterly dividend on our Common Stock, we may in the future discontinue the payment of quarterly dividends in the event we elect to retain future earnings, if any, for use in our operations and the expansion of our business. Holders of Record At June 30, 2023, there were 628 holders of record of our Common Stock with 18,309,051 shares issued and outstanding, 3 holders of Series B Preferred with 625,375 shares issued and outstanding, and 4 holders of Series B-1 Preferred with 212,402 shares issued and outstanding. The number of holders of record and shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding was calculated by reference to the books and records of the Companys transfer agent. Issuance of Securities We issued shares of our Common Stock in unregistered transactions during fiscal year 2023. All of the shares of Common Stock issued in non-registered transactions were issued in reliance on Section 3(a)(9) and/or Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and were reported in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023. 16,430 shares of Common Stock were issued subsequent to June 30, 2023. Share Repurchase Program On May 9, 2019, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to $4.0 million in shares of our Common Stock, which repurchases may be made in privately negotiated transactions or in the open market at prices per share not exceeding the then-current market prices (the Share Repurchase Program). Under the Share Repurchase Program, management has discretion to determine the dollar amount of shares to be repurchased and the timing of any repurchases in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. On March 17, 2020, the Board, given the extreme uncertainty due to COVID-19 at the time, suspended the Share Repurchase Program. On May 18, 2021, our Board of Directors resumed its Share Repurchase Program, and increased the number of shares of Common Stock available to repurchase under the Share Repurchase Program by an additional $4 million bringing the total number of Common Stock authorized to repurchase under the Share Repurchase Program to $8.0 million. On August 31, 2021 our Board of Directors approved an increase of $4.0 million in the number of shares of Common Stock available to repurchase under the Share Repurchase Program, and on May 10, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an increase of $9.0 million in the number of shares of Common Stock available to repurchase under the Share Repurchase Program, bringing the total number of Common Stock authorized to repurchase under the Share Repurchase Program as of June 30, 2023 to $21.0 million. Since inception of the Share Repurchase Program through June 30, 2023, a total of 1,945,666 shares of Common Stock have been repurchased at an average purchase price of $5.91, resulting in $9,507,781 remaining available to repurchase under the current Share Repurchase Program. From time-to-time, our Board of Directors may authorize further increases to our Share Repurchase Program. In addition, the Share Repurchase Program may also be suspended for periods of time or discontinued at any time, at the Boards discretion. 15 The following table provides information about repurchases of our Common Stock registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, during the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022: Period(1) Total Number of Shares Purchased by Period Average Price Paid Per Share Dollars Expended by Period Under the Plans or Programs Remaining Amount Available for Future Share Repurchases Under the Plans or Programs Year Ended June 30, 2022: July 1, 2021 September 30, 2021 7,600 $ 5.43 $ 41,276 $ 7,909,609 October 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 244,552 $ 5.85 $ 1,429,697 $ 6,479,912 January 1, 2022 March 31, 2022 538,376 $ 6.95 $ 3,741,477 $ 2,738,435 April 1, 2022 June 30, 2022 192,747 $ 4.78 $ 921,331 $ 10,817,104 Year Ended June 30, 2023: July 1, 2022 September 30, 2022 20,859 $ 4.97 $ 103,657 $ 10,713,447 October 1, 2022 December 31, 2022 88,741 $ 5.05 $ 448,266 $ 10,265,181 January 1, 2023 March 31, 2023 74,150 $ 5.79 $ 429,271 $ 9,835,910 April 1, 2023 June 30, 2023 47,847 $ 6.86 $ 328,129 $ 9,507,781 (1) We close our books and records on the last calendar day of each month to align our financial closing with our business processes. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The disclosures in this section are not required because we qualify as a smaller reporting company under federal securities laws. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis is intended to assist the reader in understanding our results of operations and financial condition.Managements Discussion and Analysis is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report"). This Annual Report includes certain statements that may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act).All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this Annual Report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, project, believe, or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including matters having to do with expected and future revenue, our ability to fund our operations and repay debt, business strategies, expansion and growth of operations and other such matters, are forward-looking statements.These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by our management in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments, and other factors it believes are appropriate in the circumstances.These statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including general economic and business conditions, the business opportunities (or lack thereof) that may be presented to and pursued by us, our performance on our current contracts and our success in obtaining new contracts, our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.You are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and those actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in such statements. Overview Park City Group, Inc., a Nevada corporation (Park City Group, we, us, our or, the Company) is a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) provider, and the parent company of ReposiTrak, Inc. a Utah corporation (ReposiTrak), a business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce, compliance, and supply chain management platform company that partners with retailers, wholesalers, and product suppliers to help them source, vet, and transact with their suppliers in order to accelerate sales, control risks, and improve supply chain efficiencies. The Companys fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal 2023 refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, and references to fiscal 2022 refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. 16 Sources of Revenue The principal customers for the Companys products are multi-store retail chains, wholesalers and distributors, and their suppliers. The Company has a hub and spoke business model, whereby the Company is typically engaged by retailers and wholesalers (Hubs), which in turn require their suppliers (Spokes) to utilize the Companys services. The Companys services are grouped in three application suites: (i) ReposiTrak MarketPlace (MarketPlace), encompassing the Companys supplier discovery and B2B e-commerce solutions, which helps the Companys customers find new suppliers; (ii) ReposiTrak Compliance and Food Safety (Compliance and Food Safety) solutions, which help the Companys customers vet suppliers to mitigate the risk of doing business with these suppliers; and (iii) ReposiTraks Supply Chain (Supply Chain) solutions, which help the Companys customers to more efficiently manage their various transactions with their suppliers. The Company derives revenue from five sources: (i) subscription fees, (ii) transaction-based fees, (iii) professional services fees, (iv) license fees, and (v) hosting and maintenance fees. A significant portion of the Companys revenue is generated from its Supply Chain solutions and Compliance and Food Safety solutions in the form of recurring subscription payments from the suppliers. Subscription fees can be based on a negotiated flat fee per supplier, or some volumetric metric, such as the number of stores, or the volume of economic activity between a retailer and its suppliers. Subscription revenue contains arrangements with customers for use of the application, application and data hosting, maintenance of the application, and standard support. Revenue from the Companys MarketPlace sourcing solution historically has been transactional, based on the volume of products sourced via the application. MarketPlace revenue can come from several sources depending on the customers specific requirements. These include acting as an agent for a supplier, providing supply chain technology services, and enabling a Hub to reduce its number of new suppliers by acting as the supplier for any number of products. The Company also provides professional consulting services targeting implementation, assessments, profit optimization and support functions for its applications and related products, for which revenue is recognized on a percentage-of-completion or pro rata basis over the life of the subscription, depending on the nature of the engagement. Premier customer support includes extended availability and additional services and is available along with additional support services such as developer support and partner support for an additional fee. In some instances, the Company will sell its software in the form of a license. License arrangements are a time-specific and perpetual license. Software license maintenance agreements are typically annual contracts, paid in advance or according to terms specified in the contract. When sold as a license, the Companys software is usually accompanied by a corresponding maintenance and/or hosting agreement to support the service. Software maintenance agreements provide the customer with access to new software enhancements, maintenance releases, patches, updates and technical support personnel. Our hosting services provide remote management and maintenance of our software and customers data, which is physically located in third-party facilities. Customers access hosted software and data through a secure internet connection. Revenue Recognition Effective July 1, 2018, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09: Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), and its related amendments (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized and enhances certain disclosure around the nature, timing, amount and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customers. ASU 2014-09 represents a change in the accounting model utilized for the recognition of revenue and certain expense arising from contracts with customers. We adopted ASU 2014-09 using a modified retrospective approach and, accordingly, revenue and expense totals for all periods before July 1, 2018 reflect those previously reported under the prior accounting model and have not been restated. 17 Other Metrics Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our financial statements, historically we have provided investors with Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP income per share, both of which are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that these non-GAAP measures may provide useful information regarding certain financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and operations. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures to compare the Companys performance to that of prior periods for trend analyses and planning purposes. These measures are also presented to our Board of Directors. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures exclude significant expenses and income that are required by GAAP to be recorded in the Companys financial statements and are subject to inherent limitations. Investors should review the reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures that are included in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Critical Accounting Policies This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and assumptions based on historical experience of operations and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Income Taxes In determining the carrying value of the Companys net deferred income tax assets, the Company must assess the likelihood of sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions, to realize the benefit of these assets. If these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may record a reduction in the valuation allowance, resulting in an income tax benefit in the Companys statements of operations. Management evaluates quarterly whether to realize the deferred income tax assets and assesses the valuation allowance. Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Asset Valuations Goodwill is assigned to specific reporting units and is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually or upon the occurrence of an event or when circumstances indicate that a reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value. Management reviews the long-lived tangible and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Management evaluates, at each balance sheet date, whether events and circumstances have occurred which indicate possible impairment. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired when the anticipated cumulative undiscounted cash flows of the related asset or group of assets is less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair market value of the long-lived asset. Economic useful lives of long-lived assets are assessed and adjusted as circumstances dictate. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The Company records compensation expense on a straight-line basis. The fair value of any options granted are estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions for the risk-free interest rate, expected life, volatility, dividend yield and forfeiture rate. 18 Capitalization of Software Development Costs The Company accounts for research costs of computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed as expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached shortly after a working prototype is complete and meets or exceeds design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Costs incurred after technological feasibility is established have been and will continue to be capitalized until such time as when the product or enhancement is available for general release to customers. Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We classify our investments in fixed income securities as available-for-sale debt investments. Our available-for-sale debt investments primarily consist of U.S. government, U.S. government agency, non-U.S. government and agency, corporate debt, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. These available-for-sale debt investments are primarily held in the custody of a major financial institution. A specific identification method is used to determine the cost basis of available-for-sale debt investments sold. These investments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on these investments are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). We classify our investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations. Impairment Consideration of Investments For our available-for-sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position, we determine whether a temporary or permanent credit loss exists. In this assessment, which requires judgment, among other factors, we consider the extent to which the fair value is less than the amortized cost, any changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency, and adverse conditions specifically related to the security. If factors indicate a permanent credit loss exists, an allowance for credit loss is recorded to other income (loss), net, limited by the amount that the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis. The amount of fair value change relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenue and results of operation, liquidity or capital expenditures. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02). Under ASU 2016-02, lessees will be required to recognize for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) a lease liability, which is a lessees obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis and a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessees right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Effective July 1, 2019, the Company adopted the requirements of ASU 2016-02. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Annual Report have been updated to comply with ASU 2016-02, with results for reporting periods beginning after July 1, 2019 presented under ASU 2016-02, while prior period amounts and disclosures are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period. Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Revenue $ 19,098,910 $ 1,051,969 6 % $ 18,046,941 During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, the Company had revenue of $19,098,910 as compared to $18,046,941 for the year ended June 30, 2022, an increase of 6%. The increase in revenue during the period was due to revenue growth in subscription, services and other recurring revenue in all areas of the business, particularly compliance and supply chain. This is the result of growing industry and consumer concern of food contaminations and food safety hazards whether biological, chemical, physical, or allergenic. The risks have elevated regulatory requirements, documentation requisites, and principally where does your food come from? transparency on grocery retailers and their suppliers. As more and more retailers, wholesalers and distributors adopt the risk concerns and disclosure requirements, the Company has seen a rising demand for its services. During fiscal 2022, as COVID-19 disrupted supply chains and generated shortages in products, our ability to source hard to find items for our customers resulted in increased revenue attributable to MarketPlace. These products largely consisted of personal protective equipment (PPE) which includes nitrile gloves, masks, freezers and telecommunication equipment. While the Company experienced a significant increase in MarketPlace revenue for PPE during the height of COVID-19, it is uncertain what or if any demand for PPE will continue in fiscal 2024. As a result, we may experience significant swings in MarketPlace revenue as the pandemic continues to abate. Although no assurances can be given, we continue to focus our sales efforts on marketing our software services on a recurring subscription basis and placing less emphasis on transactional revenue, including MarketPlace revenue. However, we believe there will continue to be a small percentage of customers that will require buying a particular service outright (i.e., a license). We will continue to make our best effort to reduce this non-recurring transactional revenue when we are able. 19 Cost of Services and Product Support Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Cost of service and product support $ 3,309,345 $ 122,633 4 % $ 3,186,712 Percent of total revenue 17 % 18 % Cost of services and product support was $3,309,345 or 17% of total revenue, and $3,186,712 or 18% of total revenue for the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, an increase of 4%. This increase is primarily the result of (1) increased salary and IT support and maintenance costs. Given the rise in cyber-attacks around the globe, we continue to expand our cyber security infrastructure which includes expenditures on; (1) identification (2) protection (3) detection (4) response, and, (5) recovery. We increased spending by $72,112 in the areas of detection, response and recovery during the period. Sales and Marketing Expense Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Sales and marketing $ 4,933,405 $ 79,479 2 % $ 4,853,926 Percent of total revenue 26 % 27 % The Companys sales and marketing expense was $4,933,405, or 26% of total revenue, as compared to $4,853,926, or 27% of total revenue, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, an increase of 2%. This increase in sales and marketing expense is primarily due to an increase in trade show expense, investment in FSMA 204 traceability marketing, and higher sales travel expense. As the pandemic continues to abate, many customers and prospects are returning to the new normal requiring in person meetings. The largest contributor to the increase in sales and marketing expense has been an increase in travel cost and trade shows. We believe this trend will continue as many of our trading partners, industry associations will continue to require our assistance in addressing their compliance and supply chain needs in-person. Given the complexity of FSMA 204 requirements, our customers require additional assistance in evaluating their locations for onboarding. In many cases, this requires multiple onsite meetings with distribution centers, warehouse operations, and store locations. General and Administrative Expense Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 General and administrative $ 4,685,783 $ (30,348 ) -1 % $ 4,716,131 Percent of total revenue 25 % 26 % The Companys general and administrative expense was $4,685,783, or 25% of total revenue, and $4,716,131 or 26% of total revenue for the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, a decrease of 1%. The decrease in general and administrative expense is primarily due to a refund of payroll taxes associated with the Employee Retention Credit (ERC). The ERC is a refund or certain payroll taxes for businesses that continued to pay employees while shut down temporarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic or had significant declines in gross receipts. During fiscal 2023, the Company received approximately $1.175 million in payroll tax refunds, net of fees. The ERC refund was offset by increases in bad debt expense, increase costs of benefits for employees, and higher payroll costs due to a tight labor market. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Depreciation and amortization $ 1,079,799 $ 204,248 23 % $ 875,551 Percent of total revenue 6 % 5 % 20 The Companys depreciation and amortization expense was $1,079,799 and $875,551 for the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, an increase of 23%. This increase is due to additional assets acquired in fiscal year 2023. As previously stated in Cost of Services and Product Support, we expend resources on both services and technology infrastructure. Historically, we spend between $250-$500k per annum on updating our hardware and cybersecurity infrastructure. During the period, we expended an additional $327,323 on hardware and software for both our Murray, UT datacenter and our Las Vegas data center to further provide redundancy and bolster our technology infrastructure to defend against cyber-attacks. Other Income and Expense Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Net other income and (expense) $ 821,082 $ 1,102,640 392 % $ (281,558 ) Percent of total revenue 4 % 2 % Net other income was $821,082 compared to net other expense of $281,558 for the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Other income increased due to (1) an increase in interest income due to rising interest rates on fixed income instruments on excess cash; and (2) offset by realized losses of certain short-term investments held in U.S. treasuries and other securities that occurred in prior fiscal year. Although rising interest rates provided additional interest income, the Company recognized a decline in its bond portfolio and other fixed income instruments on excess cash. The Company has zero bank debt. However, the Company does recognize interest expense associated with employee credit cards and financing arrangements due to leases or other payment arrangements. Preferred Dividends Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Preferred dividends $ 586,444 $ - - % $ 586,444 Percent of total revenue 3 % 3 % Dividends accrued on the Companys Series B Preferred and Series B-1 Preferred was $586,444 and $586,444 for the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Dividends remained flat in the comparable periods. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe that our existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, are sufficient to fund operating and investment requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including macroeconomic conditions, our rate of revenue growth, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending required for research and development efforts and the continuing market acceptance of our products and services. As of Variance June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 Dollars Percent Cash and cash equivalents $ 23,990,879 $ 21,460,948 $ 2,529,931 12 % We have historically funded our operations with cash from operations, equity financings, and borrowings from our existing line of credit with U.S. Bank N.A., which was revised on October 6, 2021 and again in 2022. Cash was $23,990,879 and $21,460,948 at June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. This 12% increase is principally the result of (1) sales growth, (2) collections of accounts receivable, (3) offset by paying down over $2.6 million of our existing line of credit, and (3) the purchase of common stock under our existing buyback plan, and (4) payment of dividends on both the preferred stock and common stock. Cash was also impacted by lower overall cash operating expense, receiving cash in advance on subscriptions, and the previously disclosed $1.1 million received in conjunction with the ERC. Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Cash provided by operating activities $ 8,860,019 $ 2,758,402 45 % $ 6,101,617 21 Net cash provided by operating activities is summarized as follows: Year Ended June 30, 2023 Year Ended June 30, 2022 Net income $ 5,590,289 $ 4,003,095 Noncash expense and income, net 2,828,231 2,329,260 Net changes in operating assets and liabilities 441,499 (230,738 ) $ 8,860,019 $ 6,101,617 Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended June 30, 2023 was $8,860,019 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $6,101,617 for the year ended June 30, 2022. Net cash provided by operating activities increased 45% due largely to (1) higher revenue and collection of monthly subscription fees paid annually in advance, (2) collection of outstanding receivables, (3) an increase in prepaids and other assets and (3) an increase in deferred revenue offset by a decrease in accounts payable. Noncash expense increased by $498,971 for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the year ended June 30, 2022 as a result of increased depreciation and amortization of certain assets and an increase in bad debt expense. Net Cash FlowsUsed inInvesting Activities Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (903,187 ) $ 2,226,449 168 % $ 1,323,262 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2023 was $903,187 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1,323,262 for the year ended June 30, 2022. This increase in cash used in investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2023 was due to the sale of property and equipment in prior fiscal year and the capitalization of software costs incurred in development of the ReposiTrak Traceability Network (RTN). Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities Year Ended June 30, 2023 $ Change % Change Year Ended June 30, 2022 Cash used in financing activities $ (5,426,901 ) $ (4,607,352 ) -46 % $ (10,034,253 ) Net cash used in financing activities totaled $5,426,901 for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $10,034,253 for the year ended June 30, 2022. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities is primarily attributable to the $2.6 million payoff of our line of credit arrangement with a bank in prior fiscal year and the purchase of stock under the Share Repurchase Program. This was partially offset with the quarterly payment of cash dividends on common stock declared in prior fiscal year. Liquidity and Working Capital At June 30, 2023, the Company had positive working capital of $23,042,199, as compared with positive working capital of $20,485,875 at June 30, 2022. This $2,556,324 increase in working capital is primarily due to a decrease in liability as a result of the payoff of a financing arrangement with a bank. Cash and cash equivalents also increased due to higher sales, cash-in-advance customers, higher rate of return on excess capital and the receipt of the previously disclosed $1.1 million in conjunction of the ERC. As of June 30, As of June 30, Variance 2023 2022 Dollars Percent Current assets $ 27,274,620 $ 26,582,709 $ 691,911 3 % 22 Current assets as of June 30, 2023 totaled $27,274,620, an increase of $691,911, as compared to $26,582,709 as of June 30, 2022. The increase in current assets is primarily attributable to a net increase in cash and cash equivalents offset with a decrease in contract assets and prepaid expense of $1,195,839 and a decrease in accounts receivable of $642,181. As of June 30, As of June 30, Variance 2023 2022 Change Percent Current liabilities $ 4,232,421 $ 6,096,834 $ (1,864,413 ) -31 % Current Ratio 6.44 4.36 2.08 48 % Current liabilities totaled $4,232,421 as of June 30, 2023 as compared to $6,096,834 as of June 30, 2022. The decrease in current liabilities is primarily attributable to the corresponding payoff of $2.6 million in our line of credit. As of June 30, 2023, the Company has zero bank debt. On October 6, 2021, the Company and the Bank executed the Credit Agreement, with an effective date of September 30, 2021 which is amended annually to reflect the needs of the Company. The Credit Agreement replaces the Companys prior $6.0 million Revolving Credit Agreement and Stand-Alone Revolving Note between the Company and the Bank, as amended and revised on January 9, 2019, and provides the Company with a $10.0 million revolving line of credit that matures on March 31, 2023. On April 28, 2023, the Company and the Bank executed an Amendment to the existing $10.0 million Credit Agreement, with an effective date of March 31, 2023. The new amendment provisions to the existing $10 million facility are (1) the Company will increase its liquidity requirement from $10 million to $12 million. Currently the Company maintains over $22 million in cash and a current ratio of over 6:1. (2) Draws on the facility accrue interest at the annual rate equal to 1.75% plus the one-month SOFR rate instead of the previous LIBOR rate. As of June 30, 2023, the balance of the facility was zero. The Company has zero bank debt. Furthermore, the Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and conditions to borrowing, as well as customary events of default. Among other things, the Company must maintain liquid assets equal to $12 million and maintain a Senior Funded Debt (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to EBITDA Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of not more than 3:1. While no assurances can be given, management currently believes that the Company will continue to increase its cash flow from operations and working capital position in subsequent periods. The Companys increase in anticipated cash flow from operations and working capital position is expected to be offset by the use of cash required to fund the Companys quarterly cash dividends of $0.015 per share, announced on September 28, 2022, December 30, 2022, February 10, 2023, March 21, 2023, June 20, 2023 and September 19, 2023, as well as the redemption and retirement of the Companys Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B-1 Preferred Stock (together, the Preferred Stock) for their stated value, or $10.70 for each share of Preferred Stock, resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $8,964,214 (the Preferred Redemption). The Preferred Redemption is to occur over the next three years from September 12, 2023. The Company believes it will have adequate cash resources to fund its operations, satisfy its debt obligations, and fund its anticipated quarterly cash dividends and Preferred Redemption for at least the next 12 months. Contractual Obligations Total contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of June 30, 2023 are summarized in the following table: Operating Leases Financing Leases Less than 1Year $ 73,291 $ 234,117 1-3 Years 153,245 210,345 3-5 Years 134,536 - Total lease payments 361,072 444,462 Less imputed interest (39,254 ) (19,168 ) Total $ 321,818 $ 425,294 23 Inflation The impact of inflation has historically not had a material effect on the Companys financial condition or results from operations; however, higher rates of inflation may cause retailers to slow their spending in the technology area, which could have an impact on the Companys sales.