Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date hereof, and forward-looking statements in documents that are incorporated by reference speak only as of the date of those documents. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted a thorough inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Furthermore, if our forward-looking statements prove to be inaccurate, the inaccuracy may be material. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or any other person that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In this report, we, our, us, Company and Revolve refer to Revolve Group, Inc., and where appropriate its subsidiaries. 6 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Our Business REVOLVE is the next-generation fashion retailer for Millennial and Generation Z consumers. As a trusted premium lifestyle brand and a go-to online source for discovery and inspiration, we deliver exceptional service and an engaging customer experience with a vast yet curated offering totaling over 110,000 apparel and footwear styles, as well as beauty, accessories and home products. Our dynamic platform connects a deeply engaged community of millions of consumers, thousands of global fashion influencers and over 1,400 emerging, established and owned brands. Through more than 20 years of continued investment in technology, data analytics and innovative marketing and merchandising strategies, we have built a powerful platform and brand that we believe is connecting with the next generation of consumers and is redefining fashion retail for the 21st century. Our co-chief executive officers founded REVOLVE in 2003 with the vision of leveraging digital channels and technology to transform the shopping experience, offering a scaled, one-stop destination for youthful, aspirational consumers. We believe that our model is more targeted and curated than premium department stores, and provides a greater selection and access than specialty retailers, which allows us to more effectively serve the next-generation consumer. To improve on the merchandise offerings of traditional retail, we have built a custom, proprietary technology platform to manage nearly all aspects of our business, with a particular focus on developing sophisticated and highly automated inventory management, pricing and trend-forecasting algorithms. Our proprietary technology leverages a comprehensive data net that encompasses millions of styles, attributes and customer interactions forming a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. We have complemented these efforts with an organization built from the ground up to make decisions in a data-first, customer-centric way. Our approach facilitates constant newness, with over 1,900 new styles launched per week on average in 2024. Illustrating the efficacy of our data-driven merchandising, in 2024, approximately 82% of our net sales were at full price, which we believe is appreciably higher than industry benchmarks. We define net sales at full price as sales with a price of not less than 95% of the full retail price. Our powerful brands and innovative marketing strategy connect with the growing next-generation customer demographics. We have built a large community of influencer and brand partners, including thousands of influencers enrolled in our proprietary brand ambassador program, as well as some of the most influential celebrities in the world such as our FWRD Creative Director, Kendall Jenner. Through our strong brand, deep relationships and history of mutually beneficial partnerships, we believe we have become a partner of choice for influencers worldwide. These marketing efforts deliver authentic, aspirational experiences and lifestyle content that drive long-term loyalty and engagement with our community of brands, customers and influencers. We complement our experiential brand marketing with sophisticated, data-driven performance marketing, the combination of which drives customer acquisition and retention that are key drivers of our customer lifetime value. Our data-driven merchandising and marketing competencies enable an owned brand strategy that further differentiates our merchandise assortment, provides increased control of our supply chain and has the opportunity to expand gross profit margins over the long-term. We have built a portfolio of 29 owned brands, each crafted with unique attributes with pricing similar to that of premium third-party brands, supported by dedicated marketing investments. We believe our consumers perceive these as highly desirable, independent brands, rather than private labels or house brands. In 2024, our owned brands represented five out of our top ten brands in the REVOLVE segment and contributed 18.2% of the REVOLVE segments net sales. 7 Representative REVOLVE Owned Brands Our Industry Large and Growing Addressable Market. We participate in the large and growing apparel, footwear, beauty, accessories and home product sectors. We believe that favorable demographic trends, the continued shift to digital channels and continued innovation in fashion and customer experience will drive long-term growth in our addressable market. Growth in Digital Channels. Over the past several years, consumers have increasingly used digital channels to make purchases, a trend supported by innovation in the digital shopping experience and by the closure of tens of thousands of physical retail stores in recent years. Mobile sales in particular have rapidly increased as consumers leverage advances in technology, further enhancing their ability to discover, browse and purchase anytime from anywhere. In 2024, customer orders placed through mobile devices represented 73.7% of our total orders. Media Consumption and Shopping Behaviors of Next-Generation Consumers. Consumers, notably Millennials (born between 1981 and 1996) and Generation Z (born between 1997 and 2012), are increasingly dedicating a substantial portion of their time to digital media, mobile devices, and novel entertainment formats. Individuals from these demographic groups, having grown up in a highly interconnected digital environment, allocate a significant amount of their time to various social media platforms. The nature of consumer engagement with brands and retailers is evolving in tandem with the continued transition to digital channels. Next-generation consumers often aspire to express their individual style through fashion and beauty. More than older generations of consumers, they frequently seek an emotional connection with brands that are unique and on-trend and resonate with their values. They look to social media and digital content from brands and influencers, as well as dialogue within their social network, as their source of inspiration and discovery and to inform their purchasing decisions. These influences can have a more powerful impact than traditional advertising methods because personal tastes and preferences are communicated in a more authentic way. This evolution in consumer behavior accompanies a significant transition of purchasing power to the Millennial generation. According to U.S. Federal Reserve data, the Millennials share of U.S. household net worth during the first nine months of 2024 more than doubled compared to the same period in 2019. We Believe There is an Opportunity to Better Serve Next-Generation Consumers. Although the apparel, footwear, beauty, accessories and home sectors are large, we believe the next-generation consumer remains underserved. Conventional national retailers aim to cater to a broad demographic with widely recognized brands, but they often lag in adapting to changing trends and have subpar customer service. Specialty boutiques, while highly curated, often offer a narrow assortment and are limited in their reach. Many pure-play digital retailers tend to deliver a purely transactional customer experience, lacking original fashion content and style guidance essential for fostering inspiration and discovery. 8 Our Competitive Strengths Leading Destination for Premium Fashion for the Next-Generation Consumer. We believe we are the leading U.S. online destination targeted towards next-generation consumers seeking premium fashion. In 2024, we generated $1.1 billionin net sales, served 2.7 million active customers, offered over 1,400 brandsand delivered over 210,000 unique styles, which we believe makes us one of the largest standalone fashion eCommerce businesses in the United States. Our average order value was $302 in 2024, which is reflective of our focus on premium merchandise and our differentiation from mass market, low price or value-based retailers. Our business is specifically targeted towards next-generation consumers, predominantly female, and we believe this more specific targeting results in a better experience for our customer, leading to strong loyalty and increases in market share over time. We further believe our brand and positioning in the market has strong network effects among our community of customers, brands and influencers, because we are able to provide increasing value to each of those constituents as our scale increases. Data-Driven Merchandising. Our data-driven merchandising approach allows us to offer a broad yet curated assortment of on-trend apparel, footwear, beauty, accessories and home products while managing fashion and inventory risk. We employ a read and react model that combines quantitative and qualitative decision-making to identify trends, curate assortments, facilitate our merchandise planning and re-order processes, and manage pricing. Our technology enables us to automate the rapid identification of new trends and emerging brands, allowing us to offer a vast and diversified product assortment that does not rely on any given trend or style and has limited overlap with other retailers. Furthermore, by introducing new products almost daily in limited quantities, we create a sense of urgency for our customers. As a result, sales of products at full retail price represented approximately 82%, 79%, 85%, 87% and 77% of total net sales in 2024, 2023, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our Brands. Through the REVOLVE and FWRD brands, we have established a deep connection with a loyal community of youthful, aspirational consumers through our premium positioning, strong consumer affinity and reputation as a key resource for fashion discovery and inspiration. Our customers are highly engaged, frequently coming to us for our compelling content and styling and our distinct and ever evolving assortment of on-trend fashion. As our business grows, we believe the value of our brands is an increasing and significant point of differentiation with customers, influencers and brands. Marketing Strategy. Our marketing approach is integrated across all parts of the customer funnel and allows us to efficiently increase brand awareness, promote customer acquisition, encourage retention and maximize customer lifetime value. We have a history of being a leader in innovative digital and community-driven marketing and we believe we have positioned ourselves as a preferred partner for influencers and traditional marketing providers. We continuously provide our customers with aspirational and engaging content and amplify our message in a highly efficient manner through our network of thousands of influencers, elevated and aspirational social events and content that connects with our customers current lifestyle. We tightly integrate our marketing messaging into the shopping experience through compelling product curation, editorial content and daily product stories, creating a consistent experience for our customers across all touchpoints and allowing us to further control our merchandise sell-through. We complement our social media and community-driven brand marketing with sophisticated performance marketing efforts, including paid search and product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, retargeting, personalized email and SMS marketing and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. Deep Connection with Our Loyal Customers. We understand our consumers, how they shop and where they seek fashion and lifestyle inspiration. We engage with consumers through social media, events, press and other digital channels, generating multiple touchpoints in an authentic way. We integrate our marketing content with our product curation, visual merchandising and editorial content. From day one, we have been focused on providing a best-in-class customer shopping experience spanning all consumer touchpoints from our website experience to our fulfillment speed and accuracy, including fast and free shipping, all the way through the return process. We encourage our customers to use the home as a dressing room with a no-hassle free shipping and returns policy, which we have offered since our launch in 2003, making us one of the pioneers of free returns. Our customers value this level of service and reward our efforts with their loyalty. Our strong net revenue retention rates and high average order values drive attractive customer lifetime value that enables us to invest in customer acquisition and long-term brand building activities. 9 Unique Owned Brand Platform. We leverage our data-driven merchandising model to optimize our product assortment through the development of new owned brands and additional styles within our existing portfolio of owned brands. Our team develops brands that embody a unique aesthetic and authentic point of view, using our proprietary data analytics to identify trends and assortment gaps and inform design and merchandising decisions, and supporting them with brand and performance marketing. Unlike traditional private label offerings, our owned brands command pricing similar to premium third-party brands due to their brand equity, as demonstrated by their collective social media following, which exceeded 4.2 million followers on Instagram and TikTok as of December 31, 2024. Further, the owned brand portfolio enhances loyalty, given that the substantial majority of our owned brand styles are available only on our sites. We bring new products to market by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and employ our read and react model. The broad reach of our social mediadriven marketing and events generates consumer appeal and credibility for our owned brands, expanding our reach and driving incremental traffic to our sites. Net sales of owned brands represented 18.2%, 20.0%, 22.4%, 20.1% and 26.7% of REVOLVE segment net sales for 2024, 2023, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Proprietary, Scalable Technology Platform and Robust Data Net. Our proprietary, scalable technology, data analytics and artificial intelligence and machine learning-supported platform efficiently and seamlessly manages our merchandising, marketing, website experience, fulfillment, product development, sourcing, and pricing decisions. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to flexibly expand capacity in a capital-efficient manner, as demonstrated by our capital expenditures averaging less than one percent of net sales for the past several years. We leverage a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points, drawing from more than 20 years of data across hundreds of thousands of styles, up to 60 unique attributes per style and millions of customer interactions. This data is leveraged throughout our operations to provide an optimized product offering, tailor our marketing efforts and continually enhance the experience on our sites. Our team of engineers, data scientists and business analysts continuously innovate to improve our platform and business processes to best serve our customers. Founder-Led Management and Innovative Culture. The inspiration of our co-chief executive officers, Mike Karanikolas and Michael Mente, to transform the shopping experience by leveraging data and through innovative business strategies continues to influence everything we do. Our company culture and team mirror the attributes of our core customer; we are socially engaged, digital-first, high energy, results driven and collaborative. We hire people who are passionate about fashion, technology, customer service and entrepreneurialism, and who are not burdened by conventional notions of traditional retail. We encourage creativity and constant improvement with a singular focus on the customer experience. We give our employees the opportunity to make an immediate contribution to our business, while maintaining our commitment to maximizing value over the long term. The success of our managerial strategies and innovative culture is evident in our long track record and our ability to manage through significant challenges in the macroeconomic environment over the course of our operating history. Our Growth Strategies Continue to Acquire New Customers. Our effective customer acquisition combines with strong repeat purchase behavior to generate an attractive ratio of customer lifetime value to customer acquisition cost. We believe we are well-positioned in the market and there is significant room to expand our core customer base. As a result, we will continue to invest in attracting new customers to the REVOLVE community. Continue to Increase Customer Loyalty and Wallet Share. We intend to deepen our existing customer relationships to improve our already strong revenue retention and increase our wallet share through enhancing our customer experience, engaging with consumers in ways that address more aspects of their daily life, and expanding our loyalty program, brand ambassador program and preferred customer program for high-value consumers. Enhance and Broaden Our Offering. We intend to leverage our community and influencer network, owned brand capabilities and integrated, data-driven operating model to further expand our share of adjacent categories. Grow International Sales. We intend to further localize and improve the shopping experience and merchandise selection for our international customers and leverage the global reach of our brand and our worldwide network of influencers to accelerate growth outside of the United States. 10 Grow our Owned Brand Offering. We intend to continue optimizing our assortment to drive revenue and profitability growth by introducing new owned brands and expanding our current owned brands into additional styles and categories. Evaluate Expansion of Physical Retail Stores. With our strong brands, unique assortment of merchandise and connection with the next-generation consumer, we believe there is an opportunity to expand our market share within our addressable market through expansion into physical retail. We intend to evaluate and test physical retail as a potential growth driver over the long term, building on our early success in leveraging physical retail locations to increase brand awareness and acquire new customers. Continue to Innovate. We are innovating across our user interface, technology platform, supply chain and distribution capabilities to improve service levels, further enhance and personalize the customer experience, increase conversion rates and further optimize our operational processes. We are increasingly leveraging artificial intelligence, or AI, and machine learning to drive growth and efficiency throughout our operations, including to optimize our product assortment and personalize our website experience through advanced search and product recommendations. Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Investments. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that we believe will be complementary to our business and operations, including opportunities that can help us promote our brands across new and existing categories, channels, demographics and geographies, expand our product offerings, improve our technology infrastructure, and enhance the customer experience. Our Merchandising, Assortment and Content We leverage a single platform to sell merchandise primarily through two retail segments, REVOLVE and FWRD, which offer complementary assortments. REVOLVE offers constant newness and discovery through a broad assortment that consists primarily of premium apparel, footwear, beauty and accessories. FWRD offers a curated assortment of iconic designer and emerging luxury brands with a strong and differentiated point of view. We believe the combination of REVOLVEs premium, trend-driven and ready-to-wear assortment and FWRDs focus on luxury statement pieces, such as handbags and shoes, provide a powerful head-to-toe assortment for the many aspects of our customers life. We offer a broad yet curated assortment of over 110,000 apparel and footwear styles, as well as accessories, beauty and home products, presented in a visually compelling manner to encourage discovery and engagement. Since our inception, we have attracted and maintained strong relationships with a diversified group of premium lifestyle and luxury brands, from emerging designers to globally recognized brands. These brand relationships provide customers with breadth across product categories and styles, while reinforcing our position as the destination for discovery. We update our sites almost daily with a constant flow of fresh, high-quality, authentic content to provide an inspiring and engaging experience for our customers, driving frequent visits to our sites and helping to promote the discovery of new, relevant brands and products. We optimize our assortment through the development of a portfolio of 29 owned brands that span multiple categories. We apply market insights and proprietary data analytics to identify gaps and emerging trends within the marketplace. We then develop new styles for existing brands or launch new brands with a unique aesthetic or category focus to address these areas. When coupled with our innovative marketing approach, we develop strong brand equity for each owned brand. We bring new owned brand products to market by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and third-party suppliers. We work with suppliers and manufacturers in China, the United States, India and other countries. We have developed deep relationships with a number of our suppliers and make efforts to ensure that all suppliers share our commitment to quality and ethics, including requiring them to certify adherence to our Code of Conduct. Our Marketing Approach We leverage a variety of marketing and advertising programs to build our brands, drive traffic to our websites and mobile applications, acquire new customers and engage with our existing customers. 11 We are a leader in experiential and influencer marketing, using social media channels and cultural events designed to deliver authentic aspirational experiences featuring our premium merchandise to attract and retain customers. These efforts typically lead to higher earned media value relative to that of our competitors. We have a global network of thousands of influencers who regularly create branded REVOLVE and FWRD content. We believe we are a preferred partner for influencers, as their association with REVOLVE and FWRD enhances their personal brands through our exclusive events and premium product offering. Our network is constantly evolving as we assess the breadth of individual influencers social media followings, relevance, engagement and resonance with our target demographics. We enhance our influencer network with our brand ambassador program that leverages our proprietary technology to offer a broader range of perks and incentives for the ambassador and provides us with unique data insights. We complement our social media efforts through a variety of brand marketing campaigns and events. Our events are attended by top influencers who promote the REVOLVE and FWRD brands and the products we offer. Our online presence includes the collective following of over 12.1 million Instagram and TikTok followers across REVOLVE, FWRD and our individual owned brands as of December 31, 2024. We complement our powerful social media and influencer marketing with a robust digital performance marketing strategy. Our digital performance marketing efforts are focused on acquiring and retaining customers through a variety of channels, including paid search and product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, retargeting, search engine optimization, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. Our Technology Platform Our technology integrates seamlessly across multiple functions throughout the organization, connecting in a way that allows constant iteration and optimization. Our proprietary algorithms and technology infrastructure create the foundation for everything we do and include: Data Science. Our technology mines more than 20 years of data from an internally developed database, consisting of hundreds of thousands of styles and millions of customer interactions, creating a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. We use machine learning and artificial intelligence to optimize our assortment and personalize the website experience through advanced search and product recommendations. Merchandising. Our algorithms optimize pricing based on demand, automatically identify and re-order best sellers based on purchase trends and browsing feedback, and optimize the depth of available inventory to maximize margins and net sales at full price. Marketing. Our algorithms analyze the billions of impressions generated by our influencer network and the number of click-throughs and conversion rates from our performance marketing efforts to cost-efficiently and effectively market to consumers. We use customer shopping and purchase behavior to personalize our email, SMS and retargeting efforts seamlessly across multiple customer touchpoints. Site Experience. We provide a highly differentiated site experience that leverages our visual merchandising capabilities to reflect REVOLVEs distinct point of view. We use our algorithms and A/B testing to analyze browsing and purchasing patterns and preferences. We further analyze the impressions and related conversion rates to most effectively display, style and photograph our merchandise. We leverage these learnings to optimize product placement and site navigation in order to encourage discovery and drive higher conversion and average order value. Customer Service and Relationships. Our customer service technology is complemented by third party technology and provides our representatives with up-to-date and relevant product and fulfillment information to better serve our customer regardless of the communication channel. We generate highly personalized and relevant full life-cycle email, SMS and retargeting messaging. Our systems also continue to learn about each customer through historical purchase behavior as well as direct customer feedback and these learnings are applied to future interactions. Fulfillment. The algorithms we use in our fulfillment centers enable us to efficiently position inventory, including strategically directing products returned by customers to the optimal fulfillment center location 12 and giving customers the ability to pre-order merchandise items that are in the process of being returned to our fulfillment centers. These algorithms also determine the most efficient manner to fulfill each order, including optimizing the way in which inventory is picked and when orders are shipped, and combining orders to reduce shipping costs whenever possible. We continually invest in our fulfillment footprint, capacity and automation to provide our customers with best-in-class service. Our proprietary technology infrastructure is highly scalable and has allowed us to efficiently grow with our customer demand, vendor base, brands and assortment. We supplement our technology team with a team of data scientists and analysts that support teams across the organization through reporting and analysis. Our Customer Service, Fulfillment and Logistics A key driver of our profitable growth and strong customer loyalty is our ability to provide an exceptional customer experience throughout the purchasing journey. Our ability to fulfill orders and process returns quickly and accurately is critically important to the customer experience. The vast majority of our customer service and fulfillment operations are managed directly by us allowing us to control the customer experience and provide a premium level of service to the customer. Additionally, in contrast to many eCommerce retailers that now offer many products for sale that are actually fulfilled by brands and other third parties, we directly fulfill the vast majority of customer orders from our distribution centers, which ensures that we can maintain an exceptional customer experience. Customers can engage with us in 12 languages and pay in over 50 currencies using one of 20 payment methods, including third-party alternatives that allow our customers to make installment payments. We also offer a loyalty program for our customers that leverages in-house technology, which incentivizes cross shopping on our sites and affords participating customers benefits such as early access to new styles, early access to items on sale and invitations to exclusive events. The FWRD preferred customer program enables our top-tier customers to receive a personalized, high-touch shopping experience including early access and curated product selection created by their dedicated stylists. Our internally developed technology platform enables our customer service, fulfillment and logistics teams to provide a premium customer experience, driving customer satisfaction and loyalty. Our customer service team, through interactions with our customers by phone, email, chat, SMS, or social media messaging, primarily addresses questions relating to orders, deliveries and returns, and also answers questions regarding fit, color, size and other style matters to ensure customer satisfaction. Our fulfillment and logistics team oversees order fulfillment, ensuring that orders are efficiently and accurately processed, packed, shipped and delivered to customers. We continually invest in automation and our fulfillment center network to optimize fulfillment center workflow in an effort to maintain and improve our customer experience and gain cost efficiencies. Our investments have created a highly scalable, flexible infrastructure that optimizes inventory and order allocation, reduces shipping and fulfillment expenses and delivers merchandise quickly and efficiently to our customers. Our fulfillment, shipping and return processes create a seamless customer experience, which fosters customer loyalty. Our proprietary inventory tracking system creates a unique serial number for every individual item in our warehouse and enables our customers to receive real-time updates regarding the status of their orders. We offer free two-day shipping and free returns to customers in the United States and in certain areas we offer free next-day shipping. Our efficient operations allow us to ship over 96% of orders on the same day if placed before 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time. We are also able to ship to and service customers in over 150 countries and territories and offer shipping within two to three business days for customers representing over 80% of our international sales. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to expand capacity and increase service levels in a capital-efficient manner. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance our platform in the United States and internationally. 13 Human Capital As of December 31, 2024, we had 1,632 employees worldwide, most of whom are employed in the United States. On a limited basis, we may use temporary personnel to supplement our workforce as business needs arise. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Our human capital resources objectives are focused on the retention, development and safety of our existing employees and the recruitment of new employees. We are focused on building a team and culture that is diverse, respectful, socially engaged, digital-first, high energy, results driven and collaborative. We believe our compensation programs are competitive relative to others in our industry and geography and are designed to attract, retain and reward personnel through the combination of cash-based compensation, equity-based compensation and benefits. Our talent acquisition efforts combined with retention of our employee base yielded positive results and allowed us to grow our headcount from just over 1,000 employees at the end of 2019 to over 1,600 employees at the end of 2024. We attribute this success to our strong brand and efficient recruitment process. The following table sets forth the number of employees by team as of December 31, 2024: Team As of December 31, 2024 Fulfillment and logistics 779 Customer service 187 Owned brand design and development 158 Merchandising and planning 124 Creative photography, studio and editorial 116 Marketing 62 Technology and data science 56 Retail 37 Other 113 Total 1,632 Competition The online and offline retail markets generally, as well as the premium lifestyle and luxury product markets more specifically, are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We face significant competition from eCommerce websites, including apparel and accessories-oriented eCommerce websites as well as the eCommerce websites of traditional retailers and premium and luxury brands. We also face competition from brick-and-mortar stores and boutiques, including traditional retailers as well as fashion boutiques. We compete based on product selection, differentiation and curation, brand quality and strength of brand relationships, relevance, convenience, ease of use and consumer experience, including order fulfillment and shipping timeliness and return policies. We believe we compete favorably across these factors when taken as a whole. Intellectual Property We primarily protect our intellectual property through the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States. As of December 31, 2024, we owned over 760 trademark registrations, over 70 trademark applications and over 90 Internet domain names. Although we have not sought copyright registration for our technology or works to date, we rely on common law copyright and trade secret protections in relation to our proprietary technology, products and the content displayed on our sites, including our photography and fabric prints that we design. Our trademark registrations and applications, which we have filed in the United States and in various jurisdictions outside the United States, have focused primarily on the REVOLVE and FWRD word marks and those marks associated with our unique individual owned brands. Our trademarks, including domain names, are material to our business and brand identity. 14 Government Regulation Our business is subject to a number of domestic and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations include federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, which address, among other things, the privacy and security of consumer information, sending of commercial email, and unfair and deceptive trade practices. Our international business is subject to additional laws and regulations, including restrictions on imports from, exports to, and services provided to persons located in certain countries and territories, as well as foreign laws and regulations addressing topics such as advertising and marketing practices, customs duties and taxes, privacy, data protection, information security and consumer rights, any of which might apply by virtue of our operations in foreign countries and territories or our contacts with consumers in such foreign countries and territories. In addition, our beauty products are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations principally relate to the ingredients, proper labeling, advertising, marketing, manufacture, safety, shipment and disposal of our products. For more information about laws and regulations applicable to our business, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulation and TaxationFailure to comply with federal, state and international laws and regulations and our contractual obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Seasonality For information about the seasonality of our business, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFactors Affecting Our PerformanceSeasonality. Information About Segment and Geographic Revenue For information about segment and geographic revenue, see Note 12, Segment Information, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Corporate Information We were originally formed as Advance Holdings, LLC in December 2012 as a Delaware limited liability company. In October 2018, we changed our name to Revolve Group, LLC. In connection with our initial public offering, or IPO, on June 6, 2019, Revolve Group, LLC converted into a Delaware corporation pursuant to a statutory conversion and changed its name to Revolve Group, Inc. so that the top-tier entity in our corporate structure was a corporation rather than a limited liability company. Our principal executive offices are located at 12889 Moore Street, Cerritos, California 90703. Our telephone number is (562) 677-9480. Available Information We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our website is located at www.Revolve.com, and our periodic reports and amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at www.Investors.Revolve.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report. 15 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves certain risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, including the section of this report titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. If any of the events described in the following risk factors or the risks described elsewhere in this report occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this report. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends may adversely affect consumer discretionary spending and our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and operating results are subject to macroeconomic conditions and trends and their direct and indirect impacts on consumer discretionary spending in the markets in which we operate. Some of the factors and events that have negatively influenced consumer spending, and may do so in the future, include inflationary pressures, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, public health crises, high levels of unemployment, high consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth, declines in asset values and related market uncertainty, reductions in home values, home foreclosures, resumption of student loan payments, increases in mortgage rates and rents, adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, labor strikes, fluctuating currency exchange rates, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, wars and conflicts in Ukraine/Russia, Israel/Gaza and the Middle East, other geopolitical tensions, general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment, and social unrest. Economic conditions in certain regions may also be affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms and wildfires. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the merchandise that we offer, generally decline during periods of economic uncertainty when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. Adverse economic changes reduce consumer confidence and could negatively affect our operating results. We cannot predict when macroeconomic uncertainty may arise, whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business. Furthermore, economic downturns could lead to reduced liquidity, decreases in the market price of our Class A common stock and decreases in the fair market value of our financial or other assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We purchase inventory in anticipation of sales, and if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our business requires us to manage a large volume of inventory effectively. We add new products to our sites every week and we depend on our forecasts of demand for and popularity of various products to make purchase decisions and to manage our inventory. Demand for products, however, is difficult to forecast and can change significantly between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale, resulting in higher inventory levels that may adversely impact our operating results, or insufficient inventory that may adversely impact the conversion of demand for our merchandise. Demand may be affected by macroeconomic factors such as high inflation and low consumer confidence, public health crises, wars and other geopolitical tensions, seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, product defects, promotions, changes in consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products, and various other factors, such as political instability and social unrest, and our consumers may not purchase products in the quantities that we expect. Seasonality in our business has not historically followed that of traditional retailers which typically experience concentration of net sales in the fourth quarter in connection with the holidays. For information about the seasonality of our business, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFactors Affecting Our PerformanceSeasonality. If we are unable to manage inventory at the right 16 levels and with the appropriate assortment during these seasonal fluctuations or if the seasonality of our business changes, the conversion of consumer demand may be adversely impacted. We generally do not have the right to return unsold products to our suppliers. If we fail to manage our inventory effectively or negotiate favorable credit terms with third-party suppliers, we may be subject to a heightened risk of inventory obsolescence, a decline in inventory values, and significant inventory valuation adjustments, liquidations or write-offs. In addition, if we are required to lower sale prices in order to reduce inventory levels or to pay higher prices to our suppliers, our profit margins might be negatively affected. Any failure to manage owned brand expansion or accurately forecast demand for owned brands could adversely affect growth, margins and inventory levels. In addition, our ability to meet customer demand may be negatively impacted by a shortage in inventory or appropriate assortment due to reduced inventory purchases or disruptions in the supply chain. Historically, a majority of our owned brand products and a substantial portion of the products we source from third parties have been manufactured in China. Various factors and events outside of our control impact our supply chain and may delay or prevent our manufacturing and may also increase the cost to manufacture or transport product that is sourced in China. In addition, the worsening of U.S.-China relations could also impact our supply chain and negatively impact the cost to source from China. While we seek to further diversify our supply chain and sourcing, we may not be able to diversify in a cost-effective manner, or at all, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the supply chain worldwide has in the past been, and may in the future be, negatively impacted by events such as wars and geopolitical tensions, public health crises, labor shortages, tariffs and other factors, and diversification of the supply chain and sourcing therefore may not yield the targeted benefits. Merchandise returns could harm our business. We allow our customers to return products, subject to our return policy. If the rate of merchandise returns increases significantly or if merchandise return economics become less efficient, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Further, we modify our policies relating to returns from time to time, which may result in customer dissatisfaction or an increase in the number of product returns. From time to time our products are damaged in transit, which can increase return rates and harm our brand. We accept merchandise returns for full refund if returned within 30 days of the original purchase date and merchandise may be exchanged up to 60 days from the original purchase date. Due to our liberal return policy and consumer behavior, we have experienced and may in the future experience heightened levels of returns, which have and may continue to negatively impact our operating results and financial position. We have also experienced and may in the future experience increased levels of returns due to changes in consumer shopping behavior and discretionary spending as a result of changes in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence, including levels of unemployment, the size and timing of federal stimulus programs, salaries and wage rates, high inflation, high interest rates, recession or fears of recession, housing costs, energy and fuel costs, the resumption of student loan repayments, income tax rates and the timing of tax refunds, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, availability of consumer credit and consumer debt levels. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences and shifts in fashion and industry trends in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. The retail apparel industry is driven in part by fashion and beauty trends, which may shift quickly. Our continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for products, consumer attitudes toward our industry and brand and where and how consumers shop for those products. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, maintain a favorable mix of products and develop our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. Failure to respond to changing customer preferences and fashion trends could negatively impact our brand image with our customers and result in diminished brand loyalty. We have an established process for the identification, development, evaluation and validation of our new products. Nonetheless, each new product launch involves risks, as well as the possibility of unexpected consequences. For example, sales of our new products may not be as high as we anticipate, due to lack of acceptance of the products themselves or their price or limited effectiveness of our marketing strategies. In addition, our ability to launch new products may be limited by delays or difficulties affecting the ability of our suppliers or manufacturers to timely 17 manufacture, distribute and ship new products. Sales of new products may also be affected by inventory management. We may also experience a decrease in sales of certain existing products as a result of newly-launched products. Any of these occurrences could delay or impede our ability to achieve our sales objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We typically enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise in advance of trends, shifts in customer preference and typical selling seasons. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to changes in customer preferences, tastes and trends or economic conditions, could lead to, among other things, missed opportunities, excess inventory or inventory shortages, markdowns, valuation adjustments, liquidations and write-offs, any of which could negatively impact our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We continue to balance our inventory levels based on shifts in demand, but we may not be able to respond quickly enough to adjust our inventory position accordingly, which may have an adverse impact on our operating results. As part of our ongoing business strategy, we expect we will need to continue to introduce new products in our traditional product categories of apparel, footwear, beauty, accessories and home products, while also expanding our product launches into adjacent categories in which we may have little to no operating experience. The success of product launches in adjacent categories could be hampered by our relative inexperience operating in such categories, the strength of our competitors or any of the other risks referred to above. Furthermore, any expansion into new product categories may prove to be an operational and financial constraint which inhibits our ability to successfully accomplish such expansion. Our inability to introduce successful products in our traditional categories or in adjacent categories could limit our future growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Customers may consider our offerings to be premium products and purchase fewer or lower-priced products if their discretionary income decreases. During periods of economic uncertainty, we may need to reduce prices in response to competitive pressures or otherwise in order to maintain sales, which may adversely affect margins and profitability. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. To effectively manage future growth, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve our business processes, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems, and expand, train and manage our employee base. To support future growth, we must integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees while maintaining our corporate culture. We face significant competition for personnel. Our ability to sustain our growth may be complicated by the actions we have taken and their effect on service providers who may seek opportunities with other companies. To attract top talent, we offer, and expect to continue to offer, competitive compensation and benefits packages before we can validate the productivity of new employees. We may also elect to increase compensation levels to remain competitive in attracting and retaining talented employees. We may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs or successfully integrate new hires, our operational efficiency, our ability to fulfill orders and provide customer service, our ability to meet forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are also required to manage numerous relationships with various suppliers, vendors and other third parties. Changes in our operations, vendor base, fulfillment centers, information technology systems or internal