Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS O F FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about risks related to general economic conditions; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; our fluctuating operating results; seasonality in our business; our ability to acquire products on reasonable terms; our online business model; demand for our products; our ability to attract customers in a cost effective manner and retain our existing customers; the strength of our brand; competition; fraud; system interruptions; our ability to fulfill orders; our ability to retain existing vendors and brands and to attract new vendors and brands; our ability to obtain and maintain differentiated high-quality products from appropriate brands in sufficient quantities from vendors; our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient inventory at prices that will make our business model profitable, and of a quality that will continue to retain existing customers and attract new customers; and our ability to effectively engage in predictive analytics. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview REVOLVE is the next-generation fashion retailer for Millennial and Generation Z consumers. As a trusted, premium lifestyle brand, and a go-to online source for discovery and inspiration, we deliver an engaging customer experience from a vast yet curated offering of apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty styles. Our dynamic platform connects a deeply engaged community of millions of consumers, thousands of global fashion influencers, and hundreds of emerging, established and owned brands. Through 17 years of continued investment in technology, data analytics, and innovative marketing and merchandising strategies, we have built a powerful platform and brand that we believe is connecting with the next generation of consumers and is redefining fashion retail for the 21st century. We were founded in 2003 by our co-CEOs, Michael Mente and Mike Karanikolas. We sell merchandise through two differentiated segments, REVOLVE and FORWARD, that leverage one platform. Through REVOLVE we offer a highly-curated assortment of full-price premium apparel and footwear, accessories and beauty products from emerging, established and owned brands. Through FORWARD we offer an assortment of iconic and emerging luxury brands. We believe that FORWARD provides our customer with a destination for luxury products as her spending power increases and her desire for fashion and inspiration remains central to her self-expression. We believe our product mix reflects the desires of the next-generation consumer and we optimize this mix through the identification and incubation of emerging brands and continued development of our owned brand portfolio. The focus on emerging and owned brands minimizes our assortment overlap with other retailers, supporting marketing efficiency, conversion and sales at full price. 19 We have invested in our robust and scalable internally-developed technology platform to meet the specific needs of our business and to support our customers experience. We use proprietary algorithms and 17 years of d ata to efficiently manage our merchandising, marketing, product development, sourcing and pricing decisions. Our platform works seamlessly across devices and analyzes browsing and purchasing patterns and preferences to help us make purchasing decisions, wh ich when combined with the small initial orders for new products, allows us to manage inventory and fashion risk. We have also invested in our creative capabilities to produce high-quality visual merchandising that caters to our customers by focusing on st yle with a distinct point of view rather than on individual products. The combination of our online sales platform and our in-house creative photography allows us to showcase brands in a distinctive and compelling manner. We are pioneers of social media and influencer marketing, using social channels and cultural events designed to deliver authentic and aspirational, yet attainable, experiences to attract and retain Millennial consumers, and these efforts have led to higher earned media value than competitors. We complement our social media efforts through a variety of brand marketing campaigns and events, which generate a constant flow of authentic content. Once we have attracted potential new customers to our sites, our goal is to convert them into active customers and then encourage repeat purchases. We acquire and retain customers through retargeting, paid search/product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our app. We have developed an efficient logistics infrastructure, which allows us to provide free express shipping and free returns to our customers in the United States. We support our logistics network with proprietary algorithms to optimize inventory allocation, reduce shipping and fulfillment expenses and deliver merchandise quickly and efficiently to our customers. In 2019, we expanded our capacity by occupying a new centralized warehouse facility, which we believe will support growth beyond 2023. To date, we have primarily focused on expanding our U.S. business and have grown internationally with limited investment and no physical presence. We began offering a more localized shopping experience, including free express shipping, free returns and all-inclusive pricing, for customers in the United Kingdom and the European Union in May 2018, in Australia in late 2018, and in New Zealand and Singapore in January 2020. In addition to expanding our global footprint of influencers, we are gradually increasing our level of investment in international expansion, by focusing on Europe, Australia and Canada as well as Asia Pacific over the long term. We will continue to invest in and develop international markets while maintaining our focus on the core U.S. market. Recent Developments The COVID-19 pandemic has had a materially negative impact on our net sales starting in the second week of March coincident with the escalation of the COVID-19 outbreak in the United States and elsewhere. After increasing more than 20% year-over-year in January and February 2020 on a combined basis, net sales subsequently declined significantly year-over-year. We also experienced weakness in our key operating metrics and headwinds in the factors affecting our performance which has continued into the second quarter. For additional information see the section captioned Key Operating and Financial Metrics and Factors Affecting Our Performance. As a result, we took several additional measures in response, including: reducing executive salaries such that our co-Chief Executive Officers salaries were reduced by more than 99% to $1 and our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officers salaries were reduced by 50%. reducing salaries for senior management by 35% to 45%; reducing corporate staff overhead through furloughs or layoffs of approximately 40% of the existing corporate headcount; a combination of salary and wage reductions for the remainder of our corporate employees; reducing fulfillment, selling and distribution costs through a reduction in hours; 20 lowering operating costs and eliminating non-essential items; reducing capital expenditures by delaying or cancelling select projects; reducing planned inventory receipts by cancelling or delaying orders; and extending payment terms for both merchandise and non-merchandise vendor invoices. Our facilities and employees are based in Los Angeles County where the government has imposed restrictions designed to slow the spread of COVID-19. The vast major ity of our corporate employees are working from home and we have implemented measures, such as personal protective equipment, temperature checks and social distancing, to protect the employees that preform certain limited functions, including those in our fulfillment center, that cannot be performed at home. Government restrictions on travel and social distancing have caused the postponement or cancellation of several REVOLVE brand marketing events including the #REVOLVEfestival, our ongoing #REVOLVEaroundtheworld series of activations as well as other social activities that drove demand for many of our products. As of the date of this report, it is unclear when and to what extent such restrictions will be lifted, whether they will be reimposed if temporarily lifted or if the COVID-19 pandemic will spur long-term changes in consumer behavior. Our supply chain has also been impacted by COVID-19. Initially , the impact was largely isolated to production and shipping delays in China, but as COVID-19 spread worldwide the impact to our supply chain broadened. The spread of COVID-19 has negatively impacted consumer demand, which has contributed to our ability to manage inventory receipts to reduced levels. Through our efforts to provide a safe workplace for those employees in our fulfillment center, we have been able to meet fulfillment and shipping standards and have not experienced significant delays from our third-party shipping providers. Howeve r, if further restrictions are placed on our operations, if there is an outbreak in our fulfillment center or if our third-party shipping providers fail to meet their service obligations, our customers orders and demand for our product may further decline and our brand and reputation may be damaged. While we expect the effects of the pandemic and the related responses to negatively impact our operating results, cash flows and financial position, the duration and severity of pandemic is unpredictable and we cannot reasonably estimate the extent to which our business will be affected. Key Operating and Financial Metrics We use the following metrics to assess the progress of our business, make decisions on where to allocate capital, time and technology investments and assess the near-term and longer-term performance of our business. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands, except average order value and percentages) Gross margin 48.6 % 51.5 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 5,609 $ 8,549 Free cash flow $ 7,530 $ 10,937 Active customers 1,528 1,262 Total orders placed 1,172 1,135 Average order value $ 259 $ 259 Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures. See the section titled Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow below for information regarding our use of Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow and their reconciliation to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, respectively. 21 Gross Margin Gross profit is equal to our net sales less cost of sales. Gross profit as a percentage of our net sales is referred to as gross margin. Cost of sales consists of our purchase price of merchandise sold to customers and includes import duties and other taxes, freight in, defective merchandise returned from customers, receiving costs, inventory write-offs, and other miscellaneous shrinkage. Gross margin is impacted by the mix of brands that we sell on our sites. Gross margin on sales of owned brands is typically higher than that for third-party brands. Gross margin is also affected by the percentage of sales through the REVOLVE segment, which consists primarily of emerging third-party, established third-party and owned brands, compared to our FORWARD segment, which consists primarily of established third-party brands. One of our long-term strategies has been to increase the percentage of net sales from owned brands given the attractive margin profile associated with them. However, in the near term, we expect that the contribution of owned brands will decrease, which will adversely impact our overall gross margin. Merchandise mix will vary from period to period and if we do not effectively manage our owned brands and accurately forecast demand, our growth, margins and inventory levels may be adversely affected. We review our inventory levels on an ongoing basis to identify slow-moving merchandise and use product markdowns to efficiently sell these products. We monitor the percentage of sales that occur at full price, which we believe reflects customer acceptance of our merchandise and the sense of urgency we create through frequent product introductions in limited quantities. Gross margin is impacted by the mix of sales at full price and markdowns, as well as the level of markdowns. We expect both the quantity and depth of markdowns to increase in the short-term, in large part, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic that has reduced consumer demand and led to increased promotional activity. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted gross margins in several ways. Product mix has shifted away from certain categories, such as dresses, with relatively high margins, to other categories, such as beauty, with lower margins. The percentage of full price sales has decreased as we have reacted to significantly heightened promotional activities by our competitors, many of whom have physical storefronts and have been impacted even more than ecommerce companies, such as us. In addition, contribution from the REVOLVE segment and owned brands has decreased as described below in the section captioned Factors Affecting Our PerformanceMerchandise Mix. As a result of our cost reduction efforts described above in the section captioned Recent Developments, and as a result of work restrictions imposed by Los Angeles County that have impeded our ability to design new styles and develop new brands, we expect that contribution of owned brands will be adversely affected for at least the remainder of 2020. Certain of our competitors and other retailers report cost of sales differently than we do. As a result, the reporting of our gross profit and gross margin may not be comparable to other companies. 22 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income before other (income) expense, net, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted to exclude the effects of equity-based compensation expense and certain non-routine expenses. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by management to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating Adjusted EBITDA facilitates operating performance comparisons on a period-to-period basis and, in the case of exclusion of the impact of equity-based compensation, excludes an item that we do not consider to be indicative of our core operating performance. A reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net income $ 4,156 $ 4,962 Excluding: Other (income) expense, net (127 ) 216 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (175 ) 1,723 Depreciation and amortization 1,191 695 Equity-based compensation 564 511 Non-routine items (1) 442 Adjusted EBITDA $ 5,609 $ 8,549 (1) Non-routine items in the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily relate to legal settlements. Adjusted EBITDA was negatively impacted by decelerating net sales growth, lower gross margins, higher marketing as a percentage of net sales and cost pressure as a result of lower unit volume and average order values in the three months ended March 31, 2020 relative to the same period in 2019. The COVID-19-related impacts that have contributed to those dynamics have been more pronounced in the second quarter of 2020 and we expect such dynamics to continue in future periods. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash provided by operating activities less net cash used in capital expenditures. We view free cash flow as an important indicator of our liquidity because it measures the amount of cash we generate. Free cash flow also reflects changes in working capital. A reconciliation of non-GAAP free cash flow to cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,081 $ 15,924 Purchases of property, equipment and other (551 ) (4,987 ) Free cash flow $ 7,530 $ 10,937 Net cash used in investing activities $ (551 ) $ (4,987 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 30,975 $ (248 ) 23 Active Customers We define an active customer as a unique customer account from which a purchase was made across our platform at least once in the preceding 12-month period. We calculate the number of active customers on a trailing 12-month basis given the volatility that can be observed when calculating it on the basis of shorter periods that may not be reflective of longer-term trends; however, such a methodology may not be indicative of other short-term trends, such as changes in new customers. In any particular period, we determine our number of active customers by counting the total number of customers who have made at least one purchase in the preceding 12-month period, measured from the last date of such period. We view the number of active customers as a key indicator of our growth, the reach of our sites, the value proposition and consumer awareness of our brand, the continued use of our sites by our customers and their desire to purchase our products. We believe the number of active customers is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our growth, brand awareness and market opportunity. Our number of active customers drives both net sales and our appeal to vendors. Total Orders Placed We define total orders placed as the total number of customer orders placed by our customers across our platform in any period. We view total orders placed as a key indicator of the velocity of our business and an indication of the desirability of our products and sites to our customers. Total orders placed, together with average order value, is an indicator of the net sales we expect to recognize in a given period. We believe that total orders placed is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends. Total orders placed and total orders shipped in any given period may differ slightly due to orders that are in process at the end of any particular period. Growth in total orders placed decelerated in the three months ended March 31, 2020 relative to the same period in 2019. We expect that total orders placed will decrease in the second quarter of 2020 sequentially and relative to the same period in 2019 and may decrease in future periods as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is uncertain when total orders placed will return to growth. Average Order Value We define average order value as the sum of the total gross sales from our sites in a given period divided by the total orders placed in that period. We believe our high average order value demonstrates the premium nature of our product. We believe that average order value is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends. Average order value varies depending on the site through which we sell merchandise, the percentage of sales at full price and for sales at less than full price, the level of markdowns. Average order value may also fluctuate as we expand into and increase our presence in additional product categories and price points, including the expansion of lower price points. We expect average order value to decrease in the near term, primarily due to increased markdowns as well as a shift in mix to product categories with lower average selling prices due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Average order value was relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2020 relative to the same period in 2019 driven by a lower percentage of full price sales, higher markdowns on our marked down product and a shift in mix toward lower price point product, offset by the strength of our FORWARD segment. We expect average order value to decrease in the near term, primarily due to increased markdowns as well as a shift in mix to product categories with lower average selling prices due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 24 Factors Affecting Our Performance Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business The recent COVID-19 pandemic had a material adverse impact on our business operations, operating results, and operating cash flows for the first quarter of 2020, in particular, during the last two weeks of the quarter. The evolving COVID-19 pandemic has continued to have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in April and early May 2020, due to continued business restrictions and social distancing measures imposed in the United States and other countries, and the severe negative impact on macroeconomic conditions and consumer discretionary spending. While the ultimate health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is highly uncertain, we expect that our business operations and results of operations, including our net sales, earnings and cash flows, will be materially adversely impacted through the remainder of 2020, including as a result of: recent national COVID-19 requirements for social distancing, including requirements by government authorities around the world for people to remain at home and for the closure of non-essential businesses frequented by our customers for special social occasions; the postponement or cancellation of several REVOLVE brand marketing events including the #REVOLVEfestival; changing consumer spending habits, including a decrease in discretionary consumer spending for the apparel merchandise that we sell, as well as negative trends in consumer spending more generally due to the pandemics impact on consumers disposable income, credit availability, debt levels and consumer confidence; possible further disruption to the supply chain caused by distribution and other logistical issues as well as potential bankruptcies impacting our suppliers or manufacturing partners; decreased productivity due to work-from-home policies, travel bans or shelter-in-place orders; and a slowdown in the global economy, an uncertain global economic outlook or a credit crisis. We are focused on navigating these recent challenges presented by COVID-19 through preserving our liquidity and managing our cash flow by taking preemptive action to enhance our ability to meet our short-term liquidity needs. Such actions include, incurring $30 million in revolver borrowings under our credit facility and adjusting our cost structure to sustain through this period of lower top line demand. For additional information, see the section captioned Recent Developments. Overall Economic Trends The overall economic environment and related changes in consumer behavior have a significant impact on our business. In general, positive conditions in the broader economy promote customer spending on our sites, while economic weakness, which generally results in a reduction of customer spending, may have a more pronounced negative effect on spending on our sites. Macroeconomic factors that can affect customer spending patterns, and thereby our results of operations, include employment rates, business conditions, changes in the housing market, the availability of credit, interest rates and fuel and energy costs. In addition, during periods of low unemployment, we generally experience higher labor costs. The COIVD-19 pandemic has had a materially adverse impact on the macroeconomic environment in the United States and substantially all of our target markets. 25 Customer Acquisition and Retention and Growth in Brand Awareness Our focus since inception has been on profitable growth, which has created our disciplined approach to acquiring new customers and retaining existing customers at a reasonable cost, relative to the contributions we expect from such customers. Growth in the number of new customers has in the past, and is expected in the future, to vary from period to period and the percentage of new customer growth rate may slow as our customer base grows. Failure to attract new visitors to our sites and convert them to customers impacts future net sales growth. Prior to the onset of COVID-19, social media and influencer-based marketing continued to gain popularity and the market for these channels became increasingly competitive. Although competition has abated in recent weeks, we believe we were able to maintain the effectiveness and efficiency of these channels through those periods of increased competition. With the travel restrictions and social distancing measures imposed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are unable to engage with our customers through activations such as #REVOLVEfestival, #REVOLVEaroundtheworld and other travel and social related activities. As a result, we have shifted our brand marketing messaging and strategy to address the change in behavior and preferences of our customer. If our efforts do not connect with our customer or fail to cost-effectively promote our brand or convert impressions into new customers, our net sales growth and profitability will be adversely affected. Furthermore, if competition returns to or exceeds pre-COVID-19 levels, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our success is impacted not only by efficient and profitable customer acquisition and growth in brand awareness, but also by our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases. Existing customers, whom we define as customers in a year who have purchased from us in any prior year, account for a greater share of active customers over time. Merchandise Mix We offer merchandise across a variety of product types, brands and price points. The brands we sell on our platform consist of a mix of emerging third-party, established third-party and owned brands. Our product mix consists primarily of apparel, footwear, accessories, and beauty products. Our merchandise mix across our two reporting segments and across our owned brand and third-party products carry a range of margin profiles and may cause fluctuations in our gross margin. For example, our owned brands have generally contributed higher gross margin as compared to third-party brands. Historically, we have sought to increase the percentage of net sales from owned brands, which has led to an increase in gross margin over time. The mix between owned and third-party net sales and the pace of growth for owned brand net sales will vary. In the near term, shifts in merchandise mix as a result of changes in customer demand due to COVID-19, as well as a decrease in the contribution of owned brands, will adversely impact our overall gross margin. In the longer term, shifts in merchandise mix driven by changes in customer demand may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. 26 Inventory Management We leverage our platform to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. We utilize a data-driven read and react buying process to merchandise and curate the latest on-trend fashion. We make shallow initial inventory buys, and then use our proprietary technology tools to identify and re-order best sellers, taking into account customer feedback across a variety of key metrics, which allows us to manage inventory and fashion risk. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally purchase inventory in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. We incur inventory write-offs, which impact our gross margins. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, entering new categories will require additional investments in inventory. Shifts in inventory levels may result in fluctuations in the percentage of full price sales, levels of markdowns, merchandise mix, as well as gross margin. We believe our efforts to manage inventory levels have impacted the percentage of sales at full price, gross margins on marked-down merchandise, and gross margin in the current period and will likely continue to impact the percentage of sales at full price, gross margin on marked-down merchandise, and gross margin in the near term. In addition, our sales demand has been adversely impacted as a result of COVID-19, which will add additional pressure to our inventory position. In response, we have significantly reduced planned inventory receipts by canceling or delaying orders. These efforts have impacted and may continue to impact our inventory balance and the pace of growth in net sales in the near term. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure We have made investments over time to grow our client base and enhance our offerings. Over the long term, we expect to continue to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment center, and logistics infrastructure as we launch new brands, expand internationally and drive operating efficiencies. We believe these investments will yield positive returns in the long term, however, we cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our customer base or be cost-effective. In the near term, we have reduced capital expenditures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Segment and Geographic Performance Our financial results are affected by the performance across our two reporting segments, REVOLVE and FORWARD, as well as across the various geographies in which we serve our customers. The REVOLVE segment contributes to a majority of our net sales, representing 85.2% and 89.3% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, REVOLVE generated $124.5 million and $122.7 million in net sales, respectively, representing an increase of 1.5%. The net sales increase in the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to an increase in the number of orders placed by customers, partially offset by a decrease in average order value. We believe COVID-19 and, to a lesser extent, our efforts to manage inventory levels have materially impacted, and will continue to impact net sales and our gross margin in the near term. The FORWARD segment contributes to a smaller portion of our overall net sales, representing 14.8% and 10.7% or our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, FORWARD generated $21.6 million and $14.7 million in net sales, respectively, representing an increase of 47.0%. The net sales increase in the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to increases in the number of orders placed by customers and average order value. If we are unable to continue to generate revenue and gross profit growth in the FORWARD segment, through the period impacted by COVID-19 and beyond, our financial results would be adversely impacted. 27 Net sales to customers outside of the United States contributed to 17.6 % and 16.0 % of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , net sales to customers outside of t he United States were $ 25.7 million and $ 21.9 million, respectively, representing an increase of 17.4 %. Net sales to customers outside of the United States is impacted by various factors including import and export taxes, currency fluctuations and other ma croeconomic conditions describ ed in Overall Economic Trends above. Increases in taxes and negative movements in currencies have also had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, although net sales to customers outside the United States have also been, and likely will continue to be, negatively impa cted by the COVID-19 pandemic, through the date of this report overall net sales to international customers have been relatively stronger than net sales to customers i n the United States. Seasonality Seasonality in our business does not follow that of traditional retailers, such as typical concentration of net sales in the holiday quarter. The recent COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our historical seasonality and has resulted in the postponement or cancellation of several REVOLVE brand marketing events including #REVOLVEfestival which historically resulted in peak sales during the second quarter of each fiscal year. We have also experienced seasonally lower activity during the first quarter of each fiscal year, which was further impacted by COVID-19 in the first quarter of 2020. The seasonality trends that we have experienced historically will continue to change for the remainder of 2020 as we navigate through the recent challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. With the exception of this specific event or events like it, we expect our historical seasonality to continue in future years. Our operating income has also been affected by these historical trends because many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If our growth rates begin to moderate, in the long-term, the impact of these seasonality trends on our results of operations may become more pronounced. Components of Our Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales consist primarily of sales of womens apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty. We recognize product sales at the time control is transferred to the customer, which is when the product is shipped. Net sales represent the sales of these items and shipping revenue when applicable, net of estimated returns and promotional discounts. Net sales are primarily driven by growth in the number of our customers, the frequency with which customers purchase and average order value. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of our purchase price for merchandise sold to customers and includes import duties and other taxes, freight-in, defective merchandise returned from customers, receiving costs, inventory write-offs, and other miscellaneous shrinkage. Cost of sales is primarily driven by growth in orders placed by customers, the mix of the product available for sale on our sites and transportation costs related to inventory receipts from our vendors. We expect our cost of sales to fluctuate as a percentage of net sales primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix, both of which are further impacted by COVID-19. Fulfillment Expenses Fulfillment expenses represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing the fulfillment center, including costs attributed to inspecting and warehousing inventories and picking, packaging and preparing customer orders for shipment. Fulfillment expenses also include the cost of warehousing facilities. We expect fulfillment expenses to temporarily decrease in absolute dollars, in the near term, as we scale down our business in response to decreased consumer demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a reduction in hours worked in our fulfillment center. Over the long term, we expect fulfillment expenses to decrease as a percentage of net sales, but we expect fulfillment expenses to increase as a percentage of net sales in the short term as we are not able to fully offset the impact of COVID-19. 28 Selling and Distribution Expenses Selling and distribution expenses consist primarily of shipping and other transportation costs incurred delivering merchandise to customers and from customers returning merchandise, merchant processing fees, and customer service. We expect selling and distribution expenses to temporarily decrease in absolute dollars, in the near term, as we scale down our business in response to decreased consumer demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Over the long term, we expect selling and distribution costs to decrease as a percentage of net sales, but we expect selling and distribution expenses to increase as a percentage of net sales in the short term as we are not able to fully offset the impact of COVID-19. Marketing Expenses Marketing expenses consist primarily of targeted online performance marketing costs, such as retargeting, paid search/product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, search engine optimization, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our app . Marketing expenses also include our spend on brand marketing channels, including payments to influencers, events and other forms of online and offline marketing. Marketing expenses are primarily related to growing and retaining our customer base, building the REVOLVE and FORWARD brands and expanding our owned brand presence. Over the long term, we expect marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to scale our business, but remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net sales. As a result of the impact on consumer discretionary spending and the required social distancing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we will reduce our marketing investment in absolute dollars. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll and related benefit costs and equity-based compensation expense for our employees involved in general corporate functions including merchandising, marketing, studio and technology, as well as costs associated with the use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation, rent and other occupancy expenses. General and administrative expenses are primarily driven by increases in headcount required to support business growth and meet our obligations as a public company. Because our general and administrative expenses are largely fixed and do not fluctuate with net sales, the near term impact of COVID-19 will increase general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. We reduced costs in this area by reducing non-payroll related expenditures and we have reduced our payroll related expenses through salary, wage and schedule reductions, furloughs and to a lesser extent, layoffs. While these efforts will help mitigate the adverse impact of COVID-19, we may not be able to fully offset the impact. In the long-term, we expect general and administrative expenses to decline as a percentage of net sales as we scale our business and leverage investments in these areas. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net consists primarily of interest income on our money market funds and interest expense and other fees associated with our line of credit. 29 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and express the relationship of certain line items as a percentage of net sales for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net sales $ 146,075 $ 137,343 Cost of sales 75,125 66,589 Gross profit 70,950 70,754 Operating expenses: Fulfillment expenses 4,493 4,495 Selling and distribution expenses 21,779 20,591 Marketing expenses 21,950 19,498 General and administrative expenses 18,874 19,269 Total operating expenses 67,096 63,853 Income from operations 3,854 6,901 Other (income) expense, net (127 ) 216 Income before income taxes 3,981 6,685 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (175 ) 1,723 Net income $ 4,156 $ 4,962 Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 51.4 48.5 Gross profit 48.6 51.5 Operating expenses: Fulfillment expenses 3.1 3.3 Selling and distribution expenses 14.9 15.0 Marketing expenses 15.0 14.2 General and administrative expenses 12.9 14.0 Total operating expenses 45.9 46.5 Income from operations 2.6 5.0 Other (income) expense, net (0.1 ) 0.2 Income before income taxes 2.7 4.9 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (0.1 ) 1.3 Net income 2.8 % 3.6 % Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Net Sales Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 146,075 $ 137,343 $ 8,732 6.4 % 30 The increase in net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2020 , as compared to the same period in 2019 , was primarily due to sales to a larger number of customers, as the number of orders placed by customers increased 3.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the same period for 2019 . Net sales in the REVOLVE segment increased 1.5% to $124.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to net sales of $122.7 million in the same period in 2019. Net sales generated from our FORWARD segment increased 47.0% to $21.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to net sales of $14.7 million in the same period in 2019. After increasing more than 20% year-over-year in January and February 2020 on a combined basis, net sales in March 2020 were adversely impacted by COVID-19, thus adversely impacting sales for the quarter. Cost of Sales Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of sales $ 75,125 $ 66,589 $ 8,536 12.8 % Percentage of net sales 51.4 % 48.5 % The increase in cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to an increase in the volume of merchandise sold. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was due to a lower mix of REVOLVE merchandise sales, which generally carry a higher margin than that of the FORWARD segment, as well as lower gross margins within the REVOLVE segment as a result of higher markdown mix, which yielded lower gross margins as well as a lower mix of owned brand sales, which generally carry higher gross margins than that of third party brands. This was partially offset by higher gross margin year over year within the FORWARD segment. Fulfillment Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (dollars in thousands) Fulfillment expenses $ 4,493 $ 4,495 $ (2 ) 0.0 % Percentage of net sales 3.1 % 3.3 % The decrease in fulfillment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was the result of a decrease in the incremental costs associated with moving into our new fulfillment center in the prior year and a reduction in rent expense during the transition period. The decrease in fulfillment expenses as a percentage of net sales was due to lower moving costs and rent expense as well as efficiencies gained through the consolidation and automation of our fulfillment center that took place in 2019. Selling and Distribution Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (dollars in thousands) Selling and distribution expenses $ 21,779 $ 20,591 $ 1,188 5.8 % Percentage of net sales 14.9 % 15.0 % The increase in selling and distribution expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was the result of the increase in the number of orders shipped partially offset by lower merchant processing fees. Shipping and handling costs increased $0.7 million and customer service expenses increased $0.3 million while merchant processing fees decreased $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019. 31 Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (dollars in thousands) Marketing expenses $ 21,950 $ 19,498 $ 2,452 12.6 % Percentage of net sales 15.0 % 14.2 % The increase in marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to increased marketing investments to acquire customers and retain existing customers to drive higher net sales. We experienced an increase of $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019, in marketing expenses related to REVOLVE branded marketing events. Performance marketing expenses also increased $0.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019. General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expenses $ 18,874 $ 19,269 $ (395 ) (2.0 )% Percentage of net sales 12.9 % 14.0 % The decrease in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019, resulted primarily from efficiencies gained from scale and non-routine costs in the first quarter of 2019 that did not recur in the first quarter of 2020, partially offset by an increase in costs to operate as a public company. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (dollars in thousands) Income before income taxes $ 3,981 $ 6,685 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (175 ) 1,723 Effective tax rate (4.4 )% 25.8 % Due to the impact of the recent COVID-19 pandemic, we are unable to reliably estimate our annual effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Therefore, to calculate the benefit from income taxes we have utilized the actual effective tax rate for the current period. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to an excess tax benefit related to the exercise of non-qualified stock options during the first quarter of 2020. 32 Liquidit y and Capital Resources The following tables show our cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and working capital as of the dates indicated: As of March 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 103,579 $ 65,418 Accounts receivable, net 3,021 4,751 Working capital 103,840 97,816 As of March 31, 2020, the majority of our cash and cash equivalents was held for working capital purposes. In March 2020, due to the uncertain environment created by the COVID-19 pandemic and out of an abundance of caution, we elected to draw down $30 million in borrowings under our line of credit. In addition, in the first part of April, we took preemptive actions to preserve our liquidity and manage our cash flow by reducing non-payroll related operating costs and reducing payroll costs through a combination of pay cuts, employee furloughs and to a lesser extent layoffs. We also eliminated or deferred non-essential capital expenditures, significantly reduced planned inventory receipts by canceling or delaying orders, in addition to extending payment terms for both merchandise and non-merchandise vendor invoices. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months, including the repayment of outstanding borrowings upon the expiration of our line of credit. However, our liquidity assumptions may prove to be incorrect given the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. Sources of Liquidity Since our inception, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through cash flows generated by operations, private sales of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, as well as the net proceeds we received through our IPO. As of March 31, 2020, we have raised a total of $68.3 million from the sale of equity units, net of costs and expenses associated with such financings, including net proceeds from our IPO. Our primary use of cash includes operating costs such as merchandise purchases, compensation and benefits, marketing and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. We used a substantial portion of the proceeds from the IPO to repurchase shares of our Class B common stock. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalent balances and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months, including the repayment of outstanding borrowings upon the expiration of our line of credit. However, our liquidity assumptions may prove to be incorrect given the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic, and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. We may seek to borrow additional funds under our line of credit or raise additional funds at any time through equity, equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our operating requirements on acceptable terms, or at all. 33 Line of Credit In March 2016, we entered into a line of credit with Bank of America, N.A. that provides us with up to $75.0 million aggregate principal in revolver borrowings. Borrowings under the credit agreement accrue interest, at our option, at (1) a base rate equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate and (c) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, in each case plus a margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%, or (2) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type, including an unused commitment fee and fees associated with letters of credit. The credit agreement also permits us, in certain circumstances, to request an increase in the facility by an additional amount of up to $25.0 million (in an initial minimum amount of $10 million and in increments of $5 million thereafter) at the same maturity, pricing and other terms. As of March 31, 2020, we had $30.0 million outstanding on the line of credit. The weighted-average interest rate of debt outstanding at March 31, 2020 was 2.3%. No borrowings were outstanding as of December 31, 2019. Our obligations under the credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. The credit agreement also contains customary covenants restricting our activities, including limitations on our ability to sell assets, engage in mergers and acquisitions, enter into transactions involving related parties, obtain letters of credit, incur indebtedness or grant liens or negative pledges on our assets, make loans or make other investments. Under these covenants, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends with respect to our capital stock. We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Historical Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,081 $ 15,924 Net cash used in investing activities (551 ) (4,987 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 30,975 (248 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash from operating activities consists primarily of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation, equity-based compensation, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we generated $8.1 million of operating cash flow as compared to $15.9 million for the same period in 2019. The decrease in our operating cash flow was primarily due to unfavorable changes in working capital and to a lesser extent, a decrease in net income. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Our primary investing activities have consisted of purchases of property and equipment to support our fulfillment centers and our overall business growth and internally developed software for the continued development of our proprietary technology infrastructure. Purchases of property and equipment may vary from period-to-period due to timing of the expansion of our operations. Net cash used in investing activities was $0.6 million and $5.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to capital expenditures incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019 relating to the consolidation and automation of our fulfillment center infrastructure, which was completed in late 2019. 34 Net Cash Provided by ( Used in ) Financing Activities Until our IPO, our financing activities historically have primarily consisted of borrowings and repayments related to the existing line of credit. Net cash provided by financing activities was $31.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which was attributable to proceeds from borrowings on our line of credit and the cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which was attributable to payments of deferred offering costs. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2020, our principal obligations consist of obligations under operating leases for office and fulfillment facilities. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments, as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 we did not have any material off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements , which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as compared to the critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020 . Emerging Growth Company Status Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that any decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We have elected to use this extended transition period under the JOBS Act. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies , of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 35