Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date hereof, and forward-looking statements in documents attached that are incorporated by reference speak only as of the date of those documents. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted a thorough inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Furthermore, if our forward-looking statements prove to be inaccurate, the inaccuracy may be material. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or any other person that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In this report, we, our, us, Company and Revolve refer to Revolve Group, Inc., and where appropriate its subsidiaries. 4 PAR T I Item 1. BUSINESS Our Business REVOLVE is the next-generation fashion retailer for Millennial and Generation Z consumers. As a trusted, premium lifestyle brand, and a go-to online source for discovery and inspiration, we deliver an engaging customer experience from a vast yet curated offering totaling over 45,000 apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty styles. Our dynamic platform connects a deeply engaged community of millions of consumers, thousands of global fashion influencers, and more than 500 emerging, established and owned brands. Through 17 years of continued investment in technology, data analytics, and innovative marketing and merchandising strategies, we have built a powerful platform and brand that we believe is connecting with the next generation of consumers and is redefining fashion retail for the 21st century. REVOLVE was founded in 2003, with the vision of leveraging digital channels and technology to transform the shopping experience. REVOLVE was created to offer a scaled, one-stop destination for youthful, aspirational consumers. We believe that our model, which is more targeted than department stores or mass market online retailers, and provides a greater selection than specialty retailers, allows us to more effectively serve consumers. To improve on the merchandise offerings from traditional retail, we have built a custom, proprietary technology platform to manage nearly all aspects of our business, with a particular focus on developing sophisticated and highly automated inventory management, pricing, and trend-forecasting algorithms. Our proprietary technology leverages data from a vast net of styles, attributes and customer interactions to create a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. We have complemented these efforts with an organization built from the ground-up to make decisions in a data-first, customer centric way. Our approach facilitates constant newness, with over 1,000 new styles launched per week on average. Illustrating the efficacy of our data-driven merchandising, in 2019, approximately 79% of our net sales were at full price, which we define as sales at not less than 95% of the full retail price. Our powerful brand and innovative marketing strategy connect with the increasingly important Millennial and Generation Z demographics. We are recognized as a pioneer and a leader in social media and influencer marketing. We have built a community of thousands of influencers and brand partners, including many of the most influential social media celebrities in the world. Through our recognized leadership position, deep relationships and history of mutually beneficial partnerships, we believe we have become a partner of choice for influencers worldwide, leading to a significant competitive advantage. These marketing efforts deliver authentic, aspirational experiences and lifestyle content that drive loyalty and engagement. We pair this emotional brand marketing with sophisticated, data-driven performance marketing to further drive efficient customer acquisition and strong customer retention and lifetime value. Our data-driven merchandising and innovative marketing competencies enable a powerful owned brand strategy that drives consumer demand, increases control of our supply chain, and expands gross profit margins. We have built a portfolio of 24 owned brands, each crafted with unique attributes and supported by independent marketing investments. We believe our consumers perceive these as highly desirable, independent brands, rather than private labels or house brands. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2019, our owned brands represented eight out of our top 10 brands and contributed 36.1% of the REVOLVE segments net sales. Our Industry Large and Growing Addressable Market. We participate in the large and growing apparel and footwear, accessories and beauty sectors. We believe the key drivers shaping growth within these markets include favorable demographic trends, constant product newness and the proliferation of emerging brands, as well as an increased focus on fashion and beauty as a reflection of self-expression. 5 Significant Growth in Digital Channels. Consumers are increasingly using digital channels to make purchases, and as a result, the growth of online sales has outpaced that of traditional brick-and-mortar channels. Mobile sa les in particular have rapidly increased as consumers leverage their ability to discover, browse and purchase anytime from anywhere through their smartphones. As evidence, in 2019, customer orders placed through mobile devices represented 56.2 % of our tota l orders and revenue from mobile devices represented 53.7 % of our total net sales. Media Consumption and Shopping Behaviors of Next-Generation Consumers. Consumers, especially Millennials (born between 1982 and 2000) and Generation Z (born after 2000), are spending more and more time on digital media and less time on more traditional forms of print media. Millennials, who came of age in a hyper-connected, digital world, spend a significant amount of time on digital media, especially social media. The nature of consumer engagement with brands and retailers is evolving in tandem with the transition to digital channels. Next-generation consumers often aspire to express their individual style through fashion and beauty. More than older generations of consumers, they frequently seek an emotional connection with brands that are unique and on-trend and resonate with their values. They look to social media and digital content from influencers as their source of inspiration and discovery and to inform their purchasing decisions. Influencers have an outsized impact on the purchasing behaviors of next-generation consumers. Influencers maintain a social media presence on platforms such as Instagram and YouTube, and have thousands or even millions of engaged followers. Influencers can have a more powerful impact than traditional advertising methods because they bring their followers into their daily lives and share their personal tastes and preferences in an authentic way. This evolution in consumer behavior accompanies a significant transition of purchasing power to the Millennial generation. According to the 2015 U.S. Census Bureau, Millennials accounted for more than 25% of the U.S. population, exceeding the number of baby boomers and making it the largest percentage of the workforce in the United States. Further, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, people born after 1981, including Millennials and Generation Z, accounted for approximately $1.7 trillion or 22% of the nations total consumer expenditure in 2017. We expect this number to significantly increase as Millennials enter their peak earning years and an increasing percentage of Generation Z joins the workforce. Next-Generation Consumers are Underserved by Retail and eCommerce. Although the apparel and footwear, accessories and beauty sectors are large, next-generation consumers are currently underserved by traditional brick-and-mortar and online retailers. Department stores and national retailers try to serve a broad demographic with ubiquitous brands and are slow to react to changing trends. Specialty boutiques, while highly curated, often offer a narrow assortment and are limited in their reach. Many online retailers tend to deliver a purely transactional customer experience, with limited original fashion content and style advice to facilitate inspiration and discovery. Our Competitive Strengths Leading Millennial Destination for Online Fashion . We believe we are the leading U.S. online destination targeted towards Millennial consumers seeking premium fashion. In 2019, we generated $601.0 million in net sales, served approximately 1.5 million active customers, offered over 500 brands and delivered over 110,000 unique styles, which we believe makes us one of the largest standalone fashion eCommerce businesses in the United States. Our average order value was $275 in 2019, which is reflective of our focus on premium merchandise and our differentiation from mass market or value-based retailers. Our business is specifically targeted towards Millennial consumers and we believe this more specific targeting results in a better experience for our customer, leading to strong customer loyalty and increases in market share over time. We further believe our scaled leadership position has strong network effects among our customers, brands, and influencers, as we are able to provide increasing value to each of those constituents as our scale and leadership position increases. Data-driven Merchandising Model . Our disciplined, data-driven merchandising approach allows us to offer a broad, yet curated assortment of on-trend apparel and accessories while managing fashion and inventory risk. We employ a read and react model that combines qualitative and quantitative decision-making to identify trends, curate assortments, facilitate our merchandise planning and re-order processes, and manage pricing. Our technology enables us to automate the rapid identification of new trends and emerging brands, allowing us to offer a vast and diversified product assortment that does not rely on any given trend or style and has minimal overlap with other retailers. Furthermore, by introducing products daily in limited quantities, we create a sense of urgency for our customers. As a result, in 2019, sales of products at full retail price represented approximately 79% of total net sales. 6 The REVOLVE B rand . Since inception, we have worked to build a deep connection with our community of youthful, aspirational consumers. Our consumers frequently engage with us, coming to us for our inspiring content and styling, and our distinct and constantly changing a ssortment of on-trend fashion. REVOLVE is a brand in its own right, commanding a premium positioning, strong consumer affinity and reputation as a key fashion influencer for the Millennial consumer. As our scale grows, our brand value is increasingly becom ing a significant point of differentiation with customers, influencers and third-party brands. Innovative Marketing Approach . REVOLVEs marketing approach is integrated across all parts of the customer funnel and allows us to efficiently increase brand awareness, promote customer acquisition, encourage retention and maximize lifetime customer value. We have a history of being a leader in innovative digital and community-driven marketing and we believe we have positioned ourselves as a preferred partner for influencers and traditional marketing providers. We continuously provide our customers with aspirational and engaging content and amplify our message in a highly efficient manner through our network of over 4,500 influencers and buzzworthy social events. In 2019, we drove 51% of traffic for REVOLVE from free and low-cost sources, as measured by the visitors that landed on the REVOLVE website or mobile application directly, via email marketing links, or though paid branded search terms and organic search results (regardless of whether a purchase was made). Our brand marketing reach has increased rapidly, particularly surrounding events. We tightly integrate our marketing messaging into the shopping experience through compelling product curation, editorial content and daily product stories, creating a consistent experience for our customers across all touch points and allowing us to further control our merchandise sell-through. We pair our social media and community-driven brand marketing with sophisticated performance marketing efforts, including retargeting, paid search/product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, search engine optimization, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our apps, which together support our highly attractive customer acquisition and retention metrics. Deep Connection with Our Loyal Customers . We understand the next-generation consumer, how she communicates and where she seeks fashion and lifestyle inspiration. We engage with her through social media, events, press and other digital channels, generating multiple touchpoints in a way that we believe traditional retailers and brands do not. We integrate our marketing content with our product curation, visual merchandising, and editorial content, using our Hot List, daily product stories, and head-to-toe style suggestions to create an inspirational user experience and enhance our reputation as a fashion discovery destination. We enhance our customer experience and encourage our customers to use the home as a dressing room through exceptional customer service and a no-hassle free shipping and returns policy, which we have offered since our launch in 2003, making us one of the pioneers of free returns. She rewards our efforts with her loyalty, as demonstrated by our strong customer economics. Our efficient customer acquisition, strong net revenue retention rates and high average order values drive attractive customer lifetime value and rapid payback, with the average contribution margin from a customer exceeding our average customer acquisition cost within a short timeframe. Unique Owned Brand Platform . We leverage our data-driven merchandising model to optimize our product assortment through the development of new owned brands and additional styles within our existing portfolio of owned brands. Our team develops brands that embody a unique aesthetic and authentic point of view, using our proprietary data analytics to identify trends and assortment gaps and inform design and merchandising decisions, and supporting them with robust brand marketing. Unlike traditional private label, our owned brands command pricing similar to third-party brands due to their brand equity, as demonstrated by their collective social media following, which exceeded 3.0 million followers on Instagram as of December 31, 2019. Further, the owned brand portfolio enhances loyalty, given that the substantial majority of our owned brand styles are available only on the REVOLVE site. We bring new products to market quickly by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and employ our read and react model. The broad reach of our pioneering social mediadriven marketing and events generate instant consumer appeal and credibility for our owned brands, expanding our reach and driving incremental traffic to our sites. The expansion of owned brands, with their higher gross margin profile, has provided us with the opportunity to expand profitability and further invest in our business. Net sales of owned brands represented 36.1%, 30.9% and 20.2% of REVOLVE segment net sales for 2019, 2018, and 2017 respectively. Proprietary, Scalable Technology and Data Analytics Platform . Our proprietary, scalable technology and data analytics platform efficiently and seamlessly manages our merchandising, marketing, product development, sourcing, and pricing decisions. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to flexibly expand capacity in a capital-efficient manner. We leverage a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points, drawing from 17 years of data across hundreds of thousands of styles, up to 60 attributes per style, and millions of customer interactions. This data is leveraged throughout our operations to provide an optimized product offering, tailor our marketing efforts and continually enhance the experience on our sites. Our team of engineers and data scientists continuously innovates to improve our platform and business processes to best serve our customers. 7 Founder-led Management and Innovative Culture . The inspiration of our co-CEOs, Michael Mente and Mike Karanikolas, to transform the apparel shopping experience by leveraging data, innovative business strategies and the emerging eCommerce channel continues to influence everything we do. Our company cult ure and team mirror the attributes of our core customer; we are socially engaged, digital-first, high energy, results driven and collaborative. We hire people who are passionate about fashion, technology and entrepreneurialism, and who are not burdened by conventional notions of traditional retail. We encourage creativity and constant improvement with a singular focus on customer experience. We give our employees the opportunity to make an immediate contribution to our business, while maintaining our commit ment to maximizing value over the long term. The success of our managerial strategies and innovative culture i s evident in our track record. Our Growth Strategies Continue to Acquire New Customers . Our efficient customer acquisition combines with strong repeat purchase behavior to generate an attractive ratio of customer lifetime value to customer acquisition cost. We believe we are well-positioned in the market and there is significant room to expand our customer base. As a result, we will continue to invest in attracting new customers to the REVOLVE community and convert them into active customers. Continue to Increase Customer Loyalty and Wallet Share . We intend to deepen our existing customer relationships to improve our already strong revenue retention and increase our wallet share through enhancing our customer experience and expanding our nascent loyalty and preferred customer programs for high-value consumers. Grow Sales of Owned Brands . We intend to continue optimizing our assortment to drive revenue and profitability growth by introducing new owned brands and expanding our current owned brands into additional styles and categories. Grow International Sales . We intend to further localize and improve the shopping experience for our international customers and leverage the global reach of the REVOLVE brand and our influencer network to accelerate growth outside of the United States. Enhance and Broaden Our Offering . We intend to leverage our community and influencer network and integrated, data-driven operating model to expand our share of adjacent categories through a strategic mix of third-party and owned brands. Continue to Innovate . We are innovating across our user interface, technology platform, supply chain and distribution capabilities to improve service levels, further enhance and personalize the customer experience, and reduce lead times for our owned brands portfolio. Our Merchandising, Assortment and Content We leverage one platform to sell merchandise primarily through two differentiated retail segments, REVOLVE and FORWARD. We believe we are well-positioned in the market and that REVOLVE offers a highly-curated assortment of premium apparel and footwear, accessories and beauty products. FORWARD offers a full assortment of iconic and emerging luxury brands. We offer a broad yet curated assortment totaling over 45,000 apparel and footwear styles, as well as accessories and beauty products, presented in a visually compelling manner to encourage discovery and engagement. Since our inception, we have attracted and maintained strong relationships with a diversified group of premium lifestyle and luxury brands, from emerging designers to globally recognized brands. These brand relationships provide customers with breadth across product categories and styles, while reinforcing REVOLVEs position as the destination for discovery. We continuously identify new brands and refine the brands we feature to foster a sense of newness and encourage discovery. We optimize our assortment through the development of a portfolio of 24 owned brands that span multiple categories. We apply market insights and proprietary data analytics to identify gaps and emerging trends within the marketplace. We then develop new styles for existing brands or launch new brands with a unique aesthetic or category focus to address these areas. When coupled with our innovative marketing approach, we develop strong brand equity for each owned brand. In 2019, emerging third-party brands, established third-party brands, owned brands and other net sales contributed approximately 40%, 23%, 36% and 1% of net sales through the REVOLVE segment, respectively. In 2019, approximately 84% of net sales came from apparel and substantially all of net sales came from womens products. No third-party brand accounted for more than 2% of 2019 net sales. 8 We bring new owned brand products to market quickly by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and third -party suppliers. We work with suppliers and manufacturers in China, India, the United States , and other countries . A substantial majority of our owned brand products and a substantial portion of the products we source from third parties are manufactured in China. The COVID-19 coronavirus will impact our supply chain and may delay or prevent the manufacturing or transp ort of product that is sourced in China. As of the date of this report, the magnitude of the impact is unclear; however, it may materially and adversely impact net sales and other operating results, growth prospects and financial condition. We will contin ue to evaluate our supplier network in existing and other geographies. We have developed deep relationships with a number of our suppliers and make efforts to ensure that they share our commitment to quality and ethics. We do not, however, have any long-te rm agreements requiring us to use any manufacturer, and no manufacturer is required to produce our products in the long term. We update the sites daily with new editorial content to generate a constant flow of fresh, high-quality, authentic and engaging content to provide an inspiring and engaging experience for our customers, driving frequent visits to our sites and helping to promote the discovery of new, relevant brands and products. Our Marketing Approach We leverage a variety of marketing and advertising programs to increase brand awareness, acquire new customers, drive customer traffic across our channels, and strengthen and reinforce our brand. We are pioneers of social media and influencer marketing, using social channels and cultural events designed to deliver authentic and aspirational, yet attainable, experiences to attract and retain customers and these efforts have led to higher earned media value than competitors. We have a global network of thousands of influencers who regularly post about REVOLVE content. We believe we are a preferred partner for influencers, as their association with REVOLVE enhances our influencers personal brands. Our network is constantly evolving as we assess the breadth of individual influencers social media followings and resonance with our core demographic. We complement our social media efforts through a variety of brand marketing campaigns and events, including the #REVOLVEfestival, #REVOLVEsummer, #REVOLVEaroundtheworld and the #REVOLVEawards. Our brand marketing events are attended by our top influencers, who promote both the REVOLVE brand and our merchandise. Our online presence includes over 7.0 million Instagram followers across REVOLVE, FORWARD and our owned brands as of December 31, 2019. While social media and influencer marketing are key components of our strategy, approximately 75% of our marketing expense is devoted to performance marketing efforts. We acquire and retain customers through retargeting, paid search/product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our apps. Our Technology Platform Our technology integrates seamlessly across multiple functions throughout the organization, connecting in a way that allows constant iteration and optimization. Our proprietary algorithms and technology infrastructure create the foundation for everything we do and include: Data Science . Our technology mines data from a database we have built over 17 years, consisting of hundreds of thousands of styles and millions of customer interactions, creating a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. Merchandising . Our algorithms optimize pricing based on demand, automatically identify and re-order best sellers based on purchase trends and browsing feedback, and maintain the right depth of available inventory to maximize margins and sales at full price. Marketing . Our algorithms analyze the billions of impressions generated by our influencer network and the number of click-throughs and conversion rates from our performance marketing efforts to cost-efficiently and effectively market to consumers. We utilize customer shopping and purchase behavior to personalize our email and retargeting efforts seamlessly across multiple customer touch points. 9 Site Experience . We provide a highly differentiated site experience that leverages our visual merchandising capabilities to reflec t REVOLVEs distinct point of view. We use our algorithms and A/B testing to analyze browsing and purchasing patterns and preferences. We further analyze the impressions and related conversion rates to most effectively display, style and photograph our mer chandise. We leverage these learnings to optimize product placement and site navigation in order to encourage discovery and drive higher conversion and average order value. Customer Service and Relationships . Our customer service technology provides our representatives with up to date and relevant product and fulfillment information to better serve our customer on an order-by-order basis. We generate highly personalized and relevant full life-cycle email and retargeting messaging. Our systems also continue to learn about each customer through direct customer feedback and these learnings are applied to future interactions. Fulfillment . The algorithms we use in our fulfillment center allows us to efficiently position inventory and combine orders. These algorithms also determine the most efficient manner to fulfill each order, including by optimizing the way in which inventory is picked based on order patterns and personnel. We recently enhanced our fulfillment operations with the implementation of automation, which furthers our ability to serve our customers in a rapid and efficient manner. Our proprietary technology infrastructure is highly scalable and has allowed us to grow with our customer demand, vendor base and brands. We supplement our technology team with a team of data scientists that support teams across the organization through reporting and analysis. Our Customer Service, Fulfillment and Logistics A key element of our business is our ability to provide an exceptional customer experience from the initial transaction and returns process, to the way in which we communicate with them and also in our ability to fulfill orders quickly and accurately. Customers can engage with us in 10 languages, use one of 20 payment methods and pay in up to 80 currencies. While we do not extend credit to our customers, we do offer third-party payment alternatives that allow our customers to make installment payments. We typically offer a return policy of 30 days. We are also currently testing a loyalty program and a preferred customer program for high-value customers. The loyalty program affords these customers additional benefits such as early access to new styles and invitations to exclusive events. The preferred customer program sends clients products specifically curated for them by our stylists. Our technology platform is supplemented by our customer service, fulfillment and logistics teams. Our customer service team, through interactions with our customers by phone, email or instant-message, primarily addresses questions relating to orders, deliveries and returns, and also answers questions regarding fit, color, size, and other style matters to ensure customer satisfaction. Our fulfillment and logistics team oversees order fulfillment, ensuring that orders are efficiently and accurately processed, packed, shipped and delivered to customers. We recently consolidated our fulfillment operations into a single facility and incorporated automation processes into our warehouse workflow. These enhancements have created a highly scalable, flexible infrastructure that optimizes inventory and order allocation, reduces shipping and fulfillment expenses and delivers merchandise quickly and efficiently to our customers. Our fulfillment, shipping and return processes create a seamless customer experience, which fosters customer loyalty. Our proprietary inventory tracking system enables our customers to receive real-time updates regarding the status of their orders. We offer free two-day shipping and free returns to customers in the United States and in certain areas of California, we offer free next-day shipping. Our efficient operations allow us to ship approximately 98% of orders on the same day if placed before noon Pacific Time or the next business day if placed after. We are also able to ship to and service customers in over 200 countries and territories and are able to serve 85% of our international sales within two to three days. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to expand capacity and increase service levels in a capital-efficient manner. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance our platform in the United States and internationally. 10 Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had 1,008 full-time employees, all of which are employed in the United States. On a limited basis, we may use temporary personnel to supplement our workforce as business needs arise. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. The following table sets forth the number of employees by team as of December 31, 2019: Team As of December 31, 2019 Fulfillment and logistics 436 Owned brand design 137 Customer service 91 Creative 80 Merchandising 74 Technology and data science 52 Marketing 38 Other 100 Total 1,008 Seasonality Seasonality in our business does not follow that of traditional retailers, such as typical concentration of net sales in the holiday quarter. We believe our results are impacted by a pattern of increased sales leading up to #REVOLVEfestival in April and during May and June, which results in peak sales during the second quarter of each fiscal year. We also have experienced seasonally lower activity during the first quarter of each fiscal year. The COVID-19 coronavirus will have an impact to our supply chain and may delay or prevent the manufacturing or transport of product that is sourced from China, which may impact our results during our traditional sales season and beyond. Competition The online and offline retail markets generally, as well as the premium lifestyle and luxury product markets more specifically, are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We face significant competition from e-Commerce websites including apparel and accessories oriented eCommerce websites as well as the eCommerce websites of traditional retailers and premium and luxury brands. We also face competition from in-person stores and boutiques including traditional retailers, as well as fashion boutiques. We compete based on product selection and curation, brand quality and strength of brand relationships, relevance, convenience, ease of use and consumer experience, including shipping time and return policies. We believe we compete favorably across these factors taken as a whole. Intellectual Property We primarily protect our intellectual property through the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States. As of December 31, 2019, we owned over 200 trademark registrations, over 125 trademark applications, and over 25 Internet domain names. Although we have not sought copyright registration for our technology or works to date, we rely on common law copyright and trade secret protections in relation to our proprietary technology, products and the content displayed on our sites, including our photography and fabric prints that we design. Our trademark registrations and applications, which we have filed in the United States and in various jurisdictions outside the United States, have focused primarily on the REVOLVE and FORWARD word and design marks and those marks associated with our owned brands. Our trademarks, including domain names, are material to our business and brand identity. 11 Information About Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in "Segment Information" in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this report. Government Regulation Our business is subject to a number of domestic and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations include federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, which address, among other things, the privacy and security of consumer information, sending of commercial email, and unfair and deceptive trade practices. Our international business is subject to additional laws and regulations, including restrictions on imports from, exports to, and services provided to persons located in certain countries and territories, as well as foreign laws and regulations addressing topics such as advertising and marketing practices, customs duties and taxes, privacy, data protection, information security and consumer rights, any of which might apply by virtue of our operations in foreign countries and territories or our contacts with consumers in such foreign countries and territories. In addition, our beauty products are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, Food and Drug Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations principally relate to the ingredients, proper labeling, advertising, marketing, manufacture, safety, shipment and disposal of our products. For more information about laws and regulations applicable to our business, see Risk FactorsFailure to comply with federal, state and international laws and regulations and our contractual obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Corporate Information We were originally formed as Advance Holdings, LLC in December 2012 as a Delaware limited liability company. In October 2018, we changed our name to Revolve Group, LLC. In connection with our initial public offering, or IPO, on June 6, 2019, Revolve Group, LLC converted into a Delaware corporation pursuant to a statutory conversion and changed its name to Revolve Group, Inc. so that the top-tier entity in our corporate structure was a corporation rather than a limited liability company, which we refer to as the Corporate Conversion. In conjunction with the Corporate Conversion, all of the outstanding Class T and Class A units of Revolve Group, LLC were converted into an aggregate of 67,889,013 shares of our Class B common stock. The holders of Class T units received an aggregate of 2,400,960 shares, representing the total preference amount for the Class T units. The remaining 65,488,053 shares of our Class B common stock were allocated on a pro rata basis to the Class T and Class A unitholders based on the number of units held by each holder. In connection with the Corporate Conversion, Revolve Group, Inc. holds all property and assets of Revolve Group, LLC and assumed all of the debts and obligations of Revolve Group, LLC. The members of the board of managers and the officers of Revolve Group, LLC became the members of the board of directors and the officers of Revolve Group, Inc. Our principal executive office is located at 12889 Moore Street, Cerritos, California 90703. Our telephone number is (562) 677-9480. Available Information Our Internet website address is www.Revolve.com. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practical after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 12 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves certain risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, including the section of this report captioned Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the events described in the following risk factors or the risks described elsewhere in this report occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Us and Our Business If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. We have grown rapidly and to effectively manage our growth, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve our business processes, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems, and expand, train and manage our employee base. Since our inception, we have rapidly increased our employee headcount across our organization to support the growth of our business. To support continued growth, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees while maintaining our corporate culture. We face significant competition for personnel. To attract top talent, we have had to offer, and expect to continue to offer, competitive compensation and benefits packages before we can validate the productivity of new employees. We may also need to increase our employee compensation levels to remain competitive in attracting and retaining talented employees. The risks associated with a rapidly growing workforce will be particularly acute as we choose to expand into new merchandise categories and internationally. Additionally, we may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs or successfully integrate new hires, our efficiency, our ability to meet forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are also required to manage numerous relationships with various vendors and other third parties. Further growth of our operations, vendor base, fulfillment center, information technology systems or internal