Managements Discussion and Analysis of 5 Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date hereof, and forward-looking statements in documents that are incorporated by reference speak only as of the date of those documents. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted a thorough inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Furthermore, if our forward-looking statements prove to be inaccurate, the inaccuracy may be material. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or any other person that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In this report, we, our, us, Company and Revolve refer to Revolve Group, Inc., and where appropriate its subsidiaries. 6 PAR T I Item 1. B USINESS Our Business REVOLVE is the next-generation fashion retailer for Millennial and Generation Z consumers. As a trusted premium lifestyle brand and a go-to online source for discovery and inspiration, we deliver an engaging customer experience from a vast yet curated offering totaling over 90,000 apparel and footwear styles, as well as accessories and beauty and home products. Our dynamic platform connects a deeply engaged community of millions of consumers, thousands of global fashion influencers and over 1,000 emerging, established and owned brands. Through 20 years of continued investment in technology, data analytics and innovative marketing and merchandising strategies, we have built a powerful platform and brand that we believe is connecting with the next generation of consumers and is redefining fashion retail for the 21st century. Our co-chief executive officers founded REVOLVE in 2003 with the vision of leveraging digital channels and technology to transform the shopping experience, offering a scaled, one-stop destination for youthful, aspirational consumers. We believe that our model, which is more targeted than department stores or mass-market online retailers and provides a greater selection and access than specialty retailers, allows us to more effectively serve consumers. To improve on the merchandise offerings of traditional retail, we have built a custom, proprietary technology platform to manage nearly all aspects of our business, with a particular focus on developing sophisticated and highly automated inventory management, pricing and trend-forecasting algorithms. Our proprietary technology leverages data from a vast net of styles, attributes and customer interactions to create a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. We have complemented these efforts with an organization built from the ground up to make decisions in a data-first, customer-centric way. Our approach facilitates constant newness, with over 1,500 new styles launched per week on average in 2022. Illustrating the efficacy of our data-driven merchandising, in 2022, approximately 85% of our net sales were at full price, which we define as sales with a price of not less than 95% of the full retail price. Our powerful brands and innovative marketing strategy connect with the Millennial and Generation Z demographics. We are recognized as a pioneer and a leader in social media and influencer marketing. We have built a large community of influencer and brand partners, including thousands of micro-influencers, as well as some of the most influential social media celebrities in the world. Through our recognized leadership position, deep relationships and history of mutually beneficial partnerships, we believe we have become a partner of choice for influencers worldwide, leading to a competitive advantage. These marketing efforts deliver authentic, aspirational experiences and lifestyle content that drive long-term loyalty and engagement. We complement our emotional brand marketing with sophisticated, data-driven performance marketing, the combination of which drives successful customer acquisition and retention that are key drivers of our customer lifetime value. Our data-driven merchandising and innovative marketing competencies enable an owned brand strategy that further differentiates our merchandise assortment, provides increased control of our supply chain and has the opportunity to expand gross profit margins over the long-term. We have built a portfolio of 31 owned brands, each crafted with unique attributes and supported by dedicated marketing investments. We believe our consumers perceive these as highly desirable, independent brands, rather than private labels or house brands. In 2022, our owned brands represented five out of our top ten brands in the REVOLVE segment and contributed 22.4% of the REVOLVE segments net sales. Our Industry Large and Growing Addressable Market. We participate in the large and growing apparel, footwear, accessories, home and beauty product sectors. We believe the key drivers shaping growth within these markets include favorable demographic trends, constant product newness and the proliferation of emerging brands, as well as an increased focus on fashion, beauty and lifestyle as a reflection of self-expression. 7 Significant Growth in Digital Channels. Consumers are increasingly using digital channels to make purchases, a trend accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic and, to a lesser extent, the closure of tens of thousands of physical retail stores in recent years. As a result, the growth of online sales has outpaced that of traditional brick-and-mortar channels when compared to pre-pandemic periods. Mobile sales in particular have rapidly increased as consumers leverage their ability to discover, browse and purchase anytime from anywhere through their mobile devices. In 2022, customer orders placed through mobile devices represented 66.6% of our total orders. Media Consumption and Shopping Behaviors of Next-Generation Consumers. Consumers, especially Millennials (born between 1981 and 1996) and Generation Z (born between 1997 and 2012), are spending more and more time on digital media and less time on more traditional forms of media. These consumers, who came of age in a hyper-connected, digital world, spend a particularly significant amount of time on social media. The nature of consumer engagement with brands and retailers is evolving in tandem with the transition to digital channels. Next-generation consumers often aspire to express their individual style through fashion and beauty. More than older generations of consumers, they frequently seek an emotional connection with brands that are unique and on-trend and resonate with their values. They look to social media and digital content from influencers as their source of inspiration and discovery and to inform their purchasing decisions. Influencers have an outsized impact on the purchasing behaviors of next-generation consumers. Influencers maintain a social media presence on platforms such as Instagram, TikTok and YouTube, and have thousands or even millions of engaged followers. Influencers can have a more powerful impact than traditional advertising methods because they bring their followers into their daily lives and share their personal tastes and preferences in an authentic way. This evolution in consumer behavior accompanies a significant transition of purchasing power to the Millennial generation. According to U.S. Federal Reserve data, the Millennials share of U.S. household net worth during the first nine months of 2022 increased by approximately 50% when compared to the same period in 2019. Next-Generation Consumers are Underserved by Retail and eCommerce. Although the apparel, footwear, accessories, home and beauty sectors are large, we believe the next-generation consumer is underserved by traditional brick-and-mortar and online retailers. Department stores and national retailers try to serve a broad demographic with ubiquitous brands and are slow to react to changing trends. Specialty boutiques, while highly curated, often offer a narrow assortment and are limited in their reach. Many online retailers tend to deliver a purely transactional customer experience, with limited original fashion content and style advice to facilitate inspiration and discovery. Our Competitive Strengths Leading Millennial and Generation Z Destination for Online Fashion . We believe we are the leading U.S. online destination targeted towards Millennial and Generation Z consumers seeking premium fashion. In 2022, we generated $1.1 billion in net sales, served over 2.3 million active customers, offered over 1,000 brands and delivered over 219,000 unique styles, which we believe makes us one of the largest standalone fashion eCommerce businesses in the United States. Our average order value was $304 in 2022, which is reflective of our focus on premium merchandise and our differentiation from mass market, low price or value-based retailers. Our business is specifically targeted towards Millennial and Generation Z consumers, predominantly female, and we believe this more specific targeting results in a better experience for our customer, leading to strong customer loyalty and increases in market share over time. We further believe our scaled leadership position has strong network effects among our customers, brands and influencers because we are able to provide increasing value to each of those constituents as our scale and leadership position increases. Data-Driven Merchandising Model . Our disciplined, data-driven merchandising approach allows us to offer a broad yet curated assortment of on-trend apparel, footwear, accessories and home and beauty products while managing fashion and inventory risk. We employ a read and react model that combines qualitative and quantitative decision-making to identify trends, curate assortments, facilitate our merchandise planning and re-order processes, and manage pricing. Our technology enables us to automate the rapid identification of new trends and emerging brands, allowing us to offer a vast and diversified product assortment that does not rely on any given trend or style and has minimal overlap with other retailers. Furthermore, by introducing new products almost daily in limited quantities, we create a sense of urgency for our customers. As a result, sales of products at full retail price represented approximately 85%, 87%, 77% and 79% of total net sales in 2022, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 8 The REVOLVE and FWRD Brands . We have established a deep connection with a loyal community of youthful, aspirational consumers through our premium positioning, strong consumer affinity and reputation as a key fashion influencer for the next-generation consumer. Our customers frequently engage with us, coming to us for our inspiring content and styling and our distinct and constantly changing assortment of on-trend fashion. As our business grows, our brand value is increasingly becoming a significant point of differentiation with customers, influencers and brands. Innovative Marketing Approach . Our marketing approach is integrated across all parts of the customer funnel and allows us to efficiently increase brand awareness, promote customer acquisition, encourage retention and maximize customer lifetime value. We have a history of being a leader in innovative digital and community-driven marketing and we believe we have positioned ourselves as a preferred partner for influencers and traditional marketing providers. We continuously provide our customers with aspirational and engaging content and amplify our message in a highly efficient manner through our network of thousands of influencers, elevated and aspirational social events and content that connects with her current lifestyle. In 2022, we drove 48% of traffic for REVOLVE from free and low-cost sources, as measured by the number of visitors who landed on the REVOLVE website or mobile application directly, via email marketing links, or through paid branded search terms and organic search results. We tightly integrate our marketing messaging into the shopping experience through compelling product curation, editorial content and daily product stories, creating a consistent experience for our customers across all touchpoints and allowing us to further control our merchandise sell-through. We complement our social media and community-driven brand marketing with sophisticated performance marketing efforts, including paid search and product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, retargeting, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. Deep Connection with Our Loyal Customers . We understand the next-generation consumer, how she shops and where she seeks fashion and lifestyle inspiration. We engage with her through social media, events, press and other digital channels, generating multiple touchpoints in an authentic way. We integrate our marketing content with our product curation, visual merchandising and editorial content, using our Hot List, daily product stories, featured shops, edits and head-to-toe style suggestions to create an inspirational user experience and enhance our reputation as a fashion discovery destination. From day one, we have been focused on providing a best-in-class customer shopping experience spanning all consumer touchpoints from our website experience to our fulfillment speed and accuracy, including fast and free shipping, all the way through the return process. We encourage our customers to use the home as a dressing room with a no-hassle free shipping and returns policy, which we have offered since our launch in 2003, making us one of the pioneers of free returns. She values this level of service and rewards our efforts with her loyalty, as demonstrated by our robust customer economics. Our strong net revenue retention rates and high average order values drive attractive customer lifetime value that expands over time and enables us to invest in customer acquisition and long-term brand building activities. Unique Owned Brand Platform . We leverage our data-driven merchandising model to optimize our product assortment through the development of new owned brands and additional styles within our existing portfolio of owned brands. Our team develops brands that embody a unique aesthetic and authentic point of view, using our proprietary data analytics to identify trends and assortment gaps and inform design and merchandising decisions, and supporting them with brand and performance marketing. Unlike traditional private label offerings, our owned brands command pricing similar to third-party brands due to their brand equity, as demonstrated by their collective social media following, which exceeded 4.0 million followers on Instagram as of December 31, 2022. Further, the owned brand portfolio enhances loyalty, given that the substantial majority of our owned brand styles are available only on the REVOLVE site. We bring new products to market by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and employ our read and react model. The broad reach of our social mediadriven marketing and events generates consumer appeal and credibility for our owned brands, expanding our reach and driving incremental traffic to our sites. Net sales of owned brands represented 22.4%, 20.1%, 26.7% and 36.1% of REVOLVE segment net sales for 2022, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Proprietary, Scalable Technology and Data Analytics Platform . Our proprietary, scalable technology, data analytics, artificial intelligence and machine learning platform efficiently and seamlessly manages our merchandising, marketing, website experience, fulfillment, product development, sourcing, and pricing decisions. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to flexibly expand capacity in a capital-efficient manner. We leverage a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points, drawing from 20 years of data across hundreds of thousands of styles, up to 60 unique attributes per style and millions of customer interactions. This data is leveraged throughout our operations to provide an optimized product offering, tailor our marketing efforts and continually enhance the 9 experience on our sites. Our team of engineers, data scientists and business analysts continuously innovate to improve our platform and business processes to best serve our customers. Founder-led Management and Innovative Culture . The inspiration of our co-chief executive officers, Mike Karanikolas and Michael Mente, to transform the shopping experience by leveraging data and through innovative business strategies continues to influence everything we do. Our company culture and team mirror the attributes of our core customer; we are socially engaged, digital-first, high energy, results driven and collaborative. We hire people who are passionate about fashion, technology, customer service and entrepreneurialism, and who are not burdened by conventional notions of traditional retail. We encourage creativity and constant improvement with a singular focus on the customer experience. We give our employees the opportunity to make an immediate contribution to our business, while maintaining our commitment to maximizing value over the long term. The success of our managerial strategies and innovative culture is evident in our long track record and our ability to manage through significant challenges in the macroeconomic environment, including the great recession in 2008 and 2009 and the more recent COVID-19 pandemic. Our Growth Strategies Continue to Acquire New Customers . Our effective customer acquisition combines with strong repeat purchase behavior to generate an attractive ratio of customer lifetime value to customer acquisition cost. We believe we are well-positioned in the market and there is significant room to expand our core customer base. As a result, we will continue to invest in attracting new customers to the REVOLVE community. Continue to Increase Customer Loyalty and Wallet Share . We intend to deepen our existing customer relationships to improve our already strong revenue retention and increase our wallet share through enhancing our customer experience, engaging with her in ways that address more aspects of her life, and expanding our loyalty program, ambassador program and preferred customer program for high-value consumers. Enhance and Broaden Our Offering . We intend to leverage our community and influencer network, owned brand capabilities and integrated, data-driven operating model to further expand our share of adjacent categories. Grow International Sales . We intend to further localize and improve the shopping experience and merchandise selection for our international customers and leverage the global reach of the REVOLVE brand and our influencer network to accelerate growth outside of the United States. Grow our Owned Brand Offering . We intend to continue optimizing our assortment to drive revenue and profitability growth by introducing new owned brands and expanding our current owned brands into additional styles and categories. Continue to Innovate . We are innovating across our user interface, technology platform, supply chain and distribution capabilities to improve service levels, further enhance and personalize the customer experience, increase conversion rates and further optimize our operational processes. Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Investments . We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that we believe will be complementary to our business and operations, including opportunities that can help us promote our brands across new and existing categories, channels, demographics and geographies, expand our product offerings, improve our technology infrastructure, and enhance the customer experience. Our Merchandising, Assortment and Content We leverage a single platform to sell merchandise primarily through two retail segments, REVOLVE and FWRD, which offer complementary assortments. REVOLVE offers constant newness and discovery through a broad assortment of premium apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty and home products. FWRD offers a curated assortment of iconic and emerging luxury brands with a strong and differentiated point of view. We believe the combination of REVOLVEs premium, trend-driven and ready-to-wear assortment and FWRDs focus on luxury statement pieces provide a powerful head-to-toe assortment for the many aspects of her life. We offer a broad yet curated assortment of over 90,000 apparel and footwear styles, as well as accessories and beauty and home products, presented in a visually compelling manner to encourage discovery and engagement. Since 10 our inception, we have attracted and maintained strong relationships with a diversified group of premium lifestyle and luxury brands, from emerging designers to globally recognized brands. These brand relationships provide customers with breadth across product categories and styles, while reinforcing REVOLVEs position as the destination for discovery. We continuously identify new brands and refine the brands we feature to foster a sense of newness and encourage discovery. We optimize our assortment through the development of a portfolio of 31 owned brands that span multiple categories. We apply market insights and proprietary data analytics to identify gaps and emerging trends within the marketplace. We then develop new styles for existing brands or launch new brands with a unique aesthetic or category focus to address these areas. When coupled with our innovative marketing approach, we develop strong brand equity for each owned brand. We bring new owned brand products to market by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and third-party suppliers. We work with suppliers and manufacturers in China, the United States, India and other countries. Historically, a majority of our products and a substantial portion of the products we source from third parties have been manufactured in China. We continue to expand our supplier network in existing and other geographies. We have developed deep relationships with a number of our suppliers and make efforts to ensure that all suppliers share our commitment to quality and ethics, including requiring them to certify adherence to our Code of Conduct. While we have maintained long-standing relationships with many of our largest suppliers, we do not have any long-term agreements requiring us to use any manufacturer and no manufacturer is required to produce our products in the long term. We update our sites almost daily with new editorial content to generate a constant flow of fresh, high-quality, authentic and engaging content to provide an inspiring and engaging experience for our customers, driving frequent visits to our sites and helping to promote the discovery of new, relevant brands and products. Our Marketing Approach We leverage a variety of marketing and advertising programs to build our brand, drive traffic to our websites and mobile applications, acquire new customers and engage with our existing customers. We are pioneers of social media and influencer marketing, using social channels and cultural events designed to deliver authentic and aspirational, yet attainable, experiences featuring our premium merchandise to attract and retain customers. These efforts typically lead to higher earned media value relative to that of our competitors. We have a global network of thousands of influencers who regularly create authentic REVOLVE and FWRD content. We believe we are a preferred partner for influencers, as their association with REVOLVE and FWRD enhances the influencers personal brands through our rich content. Our network is constantly evolving as we assess the breadth of individual influencers social media followings and resonance with our core demographic. In 2021, we enhanced our influencer network with the launch of the REVOLVE brand ambassador program, an extension of our relationship with the influencer that leverages our proprietary technology and offers a broader range of perks and incentives. In 2022, we further enhanced our influencer network with the launch of the FWRD brand ambassador program. We complement our social media efforts through a variety of brand marketing campaigns and in-person events, including the #REVOLVEfestival, #REVOLVEaroundtheworld and the REVOLVE Gallery. Our events are attended by top influencers who promote the REVOLVE and FWRD brands and the products we offer. The expansion in our brand marketing strategy in recent years to include virtual live-streaming events has enabled us to connect with our customer in new ways and across more aspects of her life, further strengthening our marketing playbook. Our online presence includes over 10.3 million Instagram followers across REVOLVE, FWRD and the collective following of our individual owned brands as of December 31, 2022. We complement our powerful social media and influencer marketing with a robust digital performance marketing strategy. Our digital performance marketing efforts are focused on acquiring and retaining customers through a variety of channels, including paid search and product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, retargeting, search engine optimization, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. 11 Our Technology Platform Our technology integrates seamlessly across multiple functions throughout the organization, connecting in a way that allows constant iteration and optimization. Our proprietary algorithms and technology infrastructure create the foundation for everything we do and include: Data Science . Our technology mines data from a database we have built over 20 years, consisting of hundreds of thousands of styles and millions of customer interactions, creating a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. We utilize machine learning and artificial intelligence to optimize our assortment and personalize the website experience through advanced search and product recommendations. Merchandising . Our algorithms optimize pricing based on demand, automatically identify and re-order best sellers based on purchase trends and browsing feedback, and optimize the depth of available inventory to maximize margins and net sales at full price. Marketing . Our algorithms analyze the billions of impressions generated by our influencer network and the number of click-throughs and conversion rates from our performance marketing efforts to cost-efficiently and effectively market to consumers. We utilize customer shopping and purchase behavior to personalize our email and retargeting efforts seamlessly across multiple customer touchpoints. Site Experience . We provide a highly differentiated site experience that leverages our visual merchandising capabilities to reflect REVOLVEs distinct point of view. We use our algorithms and A/B testing to analyze browsing and purchasing patterns and preferences. We further analyze the impressions and related conversion rates to most effectively display, style and photograph our merchandise. We leverage these learnings to optimize product placement and site navigation in order to encourage discovery and drive higher conversion and average order value. Customer Service and Relationships . Our customer service technology is complemented by third party technology and provides our representatives with up-to-date and relevant product and fulfillment information to better serve our customer regardless of the communication channel. We generate highly personalized and relevant full life-cycle email and retargeting messaging. Our systems also continue to learn about each customer through historical purchase behavior as well as direct customer feedback and these learnings are applied to future interactions. Fulfillment . The algorithms we use in our fulfillment centers enable us to efficiently position inventory and combine orders to reduce shipping costs. These algorithms also determine the most efficient manner to fulfill each order, including optimizing the way in which inventory is picked and when orders are shipped. We continually invest in our fulfillment footprint, capacity and automation to provide our customers with best-in-class service. Our proprietary technology infrastructure is highly scalable and has allowed us to efficiently grow with our customer demand, vendor base, brands and assortment. We supplement our technology team with a team of data scientists and analysts that support teams across the organization through reporting and analysis. Our Customer Service, Fulfillment and Logistics A key driver of our profitable growth and strong customer loyalty is our ability to provide an exceptional customer experience throughout her purchasing journey. Our ability to fulfill orders and process returns quickly and accurately is critically important to the customer experience. The vast majority of our customer service and fulfillment operations are managed directly by us, giving us significant control of the customer experience. Customers can engage with us in 12 languages, use one of 20 payment methods and pay in over 50 currencies. While we do not extend credit to our customers, we do offer third-party payment alternatives that allow our customers 12 to make installment payments. We also offer a loyalty program for our customers that leverages in-house technology. The loyalty program rewards and incentivizes cross shopping on our sites and affords participating customers benefits such as early access to new styles, early access to items on sale and invitations to exclusive events. The FWRD preferred customer program enables our top-tier customers to receive dedicated, high-touch services to assist their shopping experience including products specifically curated for them by our stylists. Our technology platform is supplemented by our customer service, fulfillment and logistics teams. Our customer service team, through interactions with our customers by phone, email, text or instant-message, primarily addresses questions relating to orders, deliveries and returns, and also answers questions regarding fit, color, size and other style matters to ensure customer satisfaction. Our fulfillment and logistics team oversees order fulfillment, ensuring that orders are efficiently and accurately processed, packed, shipped and delivered to customers. We continually invest in automation and our fulfillment center network to optimize fulfillment center workflow in an effort to maintain and improve our customer experience and gain cost efficiencies. Our investments have created a highly scalable, flexible infrastructure that optimizes inventory and order allocation, reduces shipping and fulfillment expenses and delivers merchandise quickly and efficiently to our customers. Our fulfillment, shipping and return processes create a seamless customer experience, which fosters customer loyalty. Our proprietary inventory tracking system creates a unique serial number for every individual item in our warehouse and enables our customers to receive real-time updates regarding the status of their orders. We offer free two-day shipping and free returns to customers in the United States and in certain areas of California we offer free next-day shipping. Our efficient operations allow us to ship over 95% of orders on the same day if placed before noon Pacific Time. We are also able to ship to and service customers in over 150 countries and territories and are able to serve customers representing over 80% of our international sales within two to three business days. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to expand capacity and increase service levels in a capital-efficient manner. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance our platform in the United States and internationally. Human Capital As of December 31, 2022, we had 1,384 employees, most of which are employed in the United States. On a limited basis, we may use temporary personnel to supplement our workforce as business needs arise. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Our human capital resources objectives are focused on the retention and development of our existing employees and the recruitment of new employees. We are focused on building a team and culture that is diverse, respectful, socially engaged, digital-first, high energy, results driven and collaborative. We believe our compensation programs are competitive relative to others in our industry and geography and are designed to attract, retain and reward personnel through the combination of cash-based compensation, equity-based compensation and benefits. The following table sets forth the number of employees by team as of December 31, 2022: Team As of December 31, 2022 Fulfillment and logistics 682 Owned brand design and development 144 Customer service 131 Merchandising and planning 100 Creative photography, studio and editorial 93 Marketing 63 Technology and data science 49 Other 122 Total 1,384 Competition The online and offline retail markets generally, as well as the premium lifestyle and luxury product markets more specifically, are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We face significant competition from eCommerce websites, including apparel and accessories-oriented eCommerce websites as well as the eCommerce websites of 13 traditional retailers and premium and luxury brands. We also face competition from brick-and-mortar stores and boutiques, including traditional retailers as well as fashion boutiques. We compete based on product selection, differentiation and curation, brand quality and strength of brand relationships, relevance, convenience, ease of use and consumer experience, including order fulfillment and shipping timeliness and return policies. We believe we compete favorably across these factors when taken as a whole. Intellectual Property We primarily protect our intellectual property through the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States. As of December 31, 2022, we owned over 570 trademark registrations, over 350 trademark applications and over 70 Internet domain names. Although we have not sought copyright registration for our technology or works to date, we rely on common law copyright and trade secret protections in relation to our proprietary technology, products and the content displayed on our sites, including our photography and fabric prints that we design. Our trademark registrations and applications, which we have filed in the United States and in various jurisdictions outside the United States, have focused primarily on the REVOLVE and FWRD word marks and those marks associated with our unique individual owned brands. Our trademarks, including domain names, are material to our business and brand identity. Government Regulation Our business is subject to a number of domestic and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations include federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, which address, among other things, the privacy and security of consumer information, sending of commercial email, and unfair and deceptive trade practices. Our international business is subject to additional laws and regulations, including restrictions on imports from, exports to, and services provided to persons located in certain countries and territories, as well as foreign laws and regulations addressing topics such as advertising and marketing practices, customs duties and taxes, privacy, data protection, information security and consumer rights, any of which might apply by virtue of our operations in foreign countries and territories or our contacts with consumers in such foreign countries and territories. In addition, our beauty products are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations principally relate to the ingredients, proper labeling, advertising, marketing, manufacture, safety, shipment and disposal of our products. For more information about laws and regulations applicable to our business, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulation and TaxationFailure to comply with federal, state and international laws and regulations and our contractual obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Seasonality For information about the seasonality of our business, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFactors Affecting Our PerformanceSeasonality. 14 Information About Segment and Geographic Revenue For information about segment and geographic revenue, see Note 11, Segment Information , to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Corporate Information We were originally formed as Advance Holdings, LLC in December 2012 as a Delaware limited liability company. In October 2018, we changed our name to Revolve Group, LLC. In connection with our initial public offering, or IPO, on June 6, 2019, Revolve Group, LLC converted into a Delaware corporation pursuant to a statutory conversion and changed its name to Revolve Group, Inc. so that the top-tier entity in our corporate structure was a corporation rather than a limited liability company. Our principal executive offices are located at 12889 Moore Street, Cerritos, California 90703. Our telephone number is (562) 677-9480. Available Information We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our website is located at www.Revolve.com , and our periodic reports and amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at www.Investors.Revolve.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report . Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves certain risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, including the section of this report captioned Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. If any of the events described in the following risk factors or the risks described elsewhere in this report occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this report. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends may adversely affect consumer discretionary spending and our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and operating results are subject to global economic conditions and their impact on consumer discretionary spending. Some of the factors that may negatively influence consumer spending include COVID-19 outbreaks and resulting restrictions, war, high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth, declines in asset values and related market uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, increasing inflationary pressures, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, fluctuating currency exchange rates, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment and social unrest. Economic conditions in certain regions may also be affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms and wildfires. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the merchandise that we offer, generally decline during periods of economic uncertainty when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. Adverse economic changes reduce consumer confidence and have, and in the future could, negatively affect our operating results. In challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict when macroeconomic 15 uncertainty may arise, whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business. Furthermore, economic downturns could lead to reduced liquidity, decreases in the market price of our securities and decreases in the fair market value of our financial or other assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. To effectively manage future growth, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve our business processes, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems, and expand, train and manage our employee base. To support future growth, we must integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees while maintaining our corporate culture. We face significant competition for personnel. Our ability to sustain our growth may be complicated by the actions we have taken and their effect on service providers who may seek opportunities with other companies. To attract top talent, we offer, and expect to continue to offer, competitive compensation and benefits packages before we can validate the productivity of new employees. We may also elect to increase compensation levels to remain competitive in attracting and retaining talented employees. We may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs or successfully integrate new hires, our operational efficiency, our ability to fulfill orders and provide customer service, our ability to meet forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are also required to manage numerous relationships with various suppliers, vendors and other third parties. Changes in our operations, vendor base, fulfillment centers, information technology systems or internal