Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including any projections of earnings, net sales or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning proposed new services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words may, will, estimate, intend, continue, believe, expect, anticipate, predict or any other similar words. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed or incorporated by reference in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: economic conditions and their impact on consumer demand and our business, operating results and financial condition; the effect of tariffs imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments or a global trade war; our ability to effectively manage or sustain our growth and to effectively expand our operations; our ability to retain our existing customers and acquire new customers; our ability to sustain and expand our gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA margin, a non-GAAP financial measure; our ability to respond to changing consumer demand, spending habits and customer preferences, and our ability to accurately and effectively engage in predictive analytics; our ability to retain existing vendors and brands and to attract new vendors and brands; our ability to obtain and maintain differentiated high-quality products from appropriate brands in sufficient quantities from vendors; our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient inventory at prices that will keep our business model profitable, and of a quality that will continue to retain existing customers and attract new customers; our ability to expand our product offerings, including our owned brands; our reliance on overseas suppliers and manufacturing partners, particularly in China; our ability to expand our operations and physical store presence in an efficient and cost-effective manner; our ability to maintain and enhance our brand; our ability to optimize, operate, manage and expand our network infrastructure and our fulfillment center and delivery channels; the growth of the market for premium lifestyle and luxury products, and the online market for premium lifestyle and luxury products in particular; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and our results of operations; the effect of claims, lawsuits, government investigations, other legal or regulatory proceedings or commercial or contractual disputes; and the effect of natural disasters, such as wildfires and earthquakes, or other catastrophic events. 22 Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements are set forth in this report, including under the headings Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date hereof, and forward-looking statements in documents that are incorporated by reference speak only as of the date of those documents. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted a thorough inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Furthermore, if our forward-looking statements prove to be inaccurate, the inaccuracy may be material. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or any other person that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In this report, we, our, us, Company and Revolve refer to Revolve Group, Inc., and where appropriate its subsidiaries. Overview REVOLVE is the next-generation fashion retailer for Millennial and Generation Z consumers. As a trusted premium lifestyle brand and a go-to online source for discovery and inspiration, we deliver exceptional service and an engaging customer experience with a vast yet curated offering totaling over 110,000 apparel and footwear styles, as well as beauty, accessories and home products. Our dynamic platform connects a deeply engaged community of millions of consumers, thousands of global fashion influencers and over 1,400 emerging, established and owned brands. Through more than 20 years of continued investment in technology, data analytics and innovative marketing and merchandising strategies, we have built a powerful platform and brand that we believe is connecting with the next generation of consumers and is redefining fashion retail for the 21st century. We sell merchandise through two complementary segments, REVOLVE and FWRD, that leverage one platform. Through REVOLVE, we offer an assortment of premium apparel, footwear, beauty, accessories and home products from emerging, established and owned brands. Through FWRD, we offer an assortment of curated and elevated iconic and emerging luxury brands. REVOLVE has historically been focused on the discovery of trend-driven, ready-to-wear styles, while FWRD has been more heavily weighted toward the statement pieces in our customers wardrobe, such as shoes and handbags. We believe that FWRD provides our customer with a unique destination for luxury products as our customers spending power increases and their desire for fashion and inspiration remains central to their self-expression. We believe our product mix reflects the desires of the next-generation consumer and we optimize this mix through the selection of established brands that resonate with our consumer, the identification and incubation of emerging brands and the continued development of owned brands. The focus on emerging and owned brands minimizes our assortment overlap with other retailers, supporting marketing efficiency, conversion and sales at full price. We have invested in our robust and scalable internally-developed technology platform to meet the specific needs of our business and to support our customers experience. We use proprietary algorithms and more than 20 years of data to efficiently manage our merchandising, marketing, product development, sourcing and pricing decisions. Our platform works seamlessly across devices and analyzes browsing and purchasing patterns and preferences to help us make purchasing decisions, which when combined with the small initial orders for new products, allows us to manage 23 inventory and fashion risk. We have also invested in our creative capabilities to produce high-quality visual merchandising that caters to our customers by focusing on style with a distinct point of view rather than on individual products. The combination of our online sales platform and our in-house creative photography allows us to showcase brands in a distinctive and compelling manner. We use social channels and cultural events designed to deliver authentic and aspirational, yet attainable, experiences to attract and retain next-generation consumers, and these efforts have historically led to higher earned media value than competitors. We complement our social media efforts through a variety of brand marketing campaigns and events, which generate a constant flow of authentic and inspiring content. Our social media and brand marketing strategy is combined with robust and sophisticated digital performance marketing activities and our proprietary brand ambassador program. Once we have attracted potential new customers to our sites, our goal is to convert them into active customers and then encourage repeat purchases. We acquire and retain customers through a variety of free and paid marketing channels, including paid search/product listing ads, affiliate marketing, our brand ambassador program, paid social, retargeting, organic search, personalized email and SMS marketing, and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. We have developed an efficient logistics infrastructure, which allows us to provide free shipping and returns to our customers in the United States. We support our logistics network with proprietary algorithms to optimize inventory allocation, reduce shipping and fulfillment expenses and deliver merchandise quickly and efficiently to our customers. We continue to modify and expand our fulfillment network to support our growth and the demand for our products. To date, we have successfully expanded internationally with limited investment and physical presence. Our ongoing initiative to elevate the international service levels and customer experience has been a key contributor to our growth. We also offer REVOLVE products on international marketplaces such as Tmall Global, RED and Douyin in China and Nykaa Fashion in India, to expand our distribution reach in these key geographies. We intend to continue to invest in and develop international markets while maintaining our focus on the core U.S. market. Key Operating and Financial Metrics We use the following metrics to assess the progress of our business, make decisions on where to allocate capital, time and technology investments, and assess the near-term and longer-term performance of our business. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands, except average order value and percentages) Gross margin 52.0 % 52.3 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 19,299 $ 13,267 Free cash flow $ 42,804 $ 36,656 Active customers 2,703 2,551 Total orders placed 2,308 2,223 Average order value $ 295 $ 299 Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures. See the sections captioned Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow below for information regarding our use of Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow and their reconciliation to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, respectively. Gross Margin Gross profit is equal to our net sales less cost of sales. Gross profit as a percentage of our net sales is referred to as gross margin. Cost of sales consists of our purchase price of merchandise sold to customers and includes import duties and other taxes, inbound freight costs, receiving costs, defective merchandise returned from customers, inventory valuation adjustments, and other miscellaneous shrinkage. Gross margin is impacted by the mix of brands and categories of styles that we sell on our sites. Gross margin on sales of owned brands is typically higher than that for third-party brands. Gross margin is also affected by the percentage of sales through the REVOLVE segment, which consists primarily of emerging third-party, established 24 third-party and owned brands, compared to our FWRD segment, which consists primarily of established third-party brands. Merchandise mix will vary from period to period and if we do not accurately forecast demand, our growth, margins and inventory levels may be adversely affected. We review our inventory levels on an ongoing basis to identify slow-moving merchandise and use product markdowns to efficiently sell these products. We have maintained a high percentage of sales that occur at full price, which we believe reflects our data-driven merchandising strategy, our focus on emerging and owned brands that minimizes our assortment overlap with other retailers, customer acceptance of our merchandise and the sense of urgency we create through frequent product introductions in limited quantities. Gross margin is impacted by the mix of sales at full price and markdowns, as well as the level of markdowns. Gross margin is also impacted by inbound freight costs and the level of tariffs and duties placed on imported products. In the near-term, given the significant increase in tariff rates on imported products, particularly from China, our gross margin will be adversely impacted by the effects of tariffs, though any long-term impact remains unclear. See the section titled Factors Affecting Our PerformanceOverall Economic Trends. Certain of our competitors and other retailers report cost of sales differently than we do. As a result, the reporting of our gross profit and gross margin may not be comparable to other companies. Adjusted EBITDA To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed in the table above and elsewhere in this report Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income before other income, net; taxes; and depreciation and amortization; adjusted to exclude the effects of equity-based compensation expense, certain transaction costs and certain non-routine items. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. In future periods, we may exclude similar items, may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items, and may include other expenses, costs and non-recurring items. We have included Adjusted EBITDA in this report because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating Adjusted EBITDA facilitates operating performance comparisons on a period-to-period basis and, in the case of exclusion of the impact of equity-based compensation, excludes an item that we do not consider to be indicative of our core operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; Adjusted EBITDA does not consider the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain transaction costs that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain non-routine items that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income and our other GAAP results. 25 In the near-term, Adjusted EBITDA will be adversely impacted by the lowering of gross margin as a result of the increased level of tariff rates, though any long-term impact remains unclear. See the section titled Factors Affecting Our PerformanceOverall Economic Trends. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net income $ 11,406 $ 10,873 Excluding: Other income, net (893 ) (5,321 ) Provision for income taxes 4,175 3,776 Depreciation and amortization 1,018 1,343 Equity-based compensation 2,753 2,559 Transaction costs(1) 840 Non-routine items(2) 37 Adjusted EBITDA $ 19,299 $ 13,267 (1) Includes legal and professional service fees related to potential and consummated strategic acquisitions and investments. (2) Non-routine items in the three months ended March 31, 2024 represent fees related to a settled legal matter. Free Cash Flow To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have also disclosed in the table above and elsewhere in this report free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used in purchases of property and equipment, and purchases of rental product. We have provided below a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We have included free cash flow in this report because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors, which we believe is an important indicator of our liquidity because it measures the amount of cash we generate. Free cash flow also reflects changes in working capital. Our working capital fluctuates over time primarily as a result of the timing of our inventory purchases to support growth, our effective tax rate and the timing of tax payments, and changes in the level of merchandise that is returned by our customers, which in turn impacts our return reserve. Accordingly, we believe that free cash flow provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including that other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate free cash flow differently. Because of these limitations, you should consider free cash flow alongside other financial performance measures, including net cash provided by operating activities, purchases of property and equipment and our other GAAP results. 26 The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash provided by financing activities, for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 45,145 $ 38,391 Purchases of property and equipment (1,779 ) (1,735 ) Purchases of rental product (562 ) Free cash flow $ 42,804 $ 36,656 Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,341 ) $ (1,735 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (531 ) $ (8,264 ) Active Customers We define an active customer as a unique customer account from which a purchase was made across our platform at least once in the preceding 12-month period. We calculate the number of active customers on a trailing 12-month basis given the volatility that can be observed when calculating it on the basis of shorter periods that may not be reflective of longer-term trends; however, such a methodology may not be indicative of other short-term trends, such as changes in new customers. In any particular period, we determine our number of active customers by counting the total number of customers who have made at least one purchase in the preceding 12-month period, measured from the last date of such period. We view the number of active customers as a key indicator of our growth, the reach of our sites, the value proposition and consumer awareness of our brands, the continued use of our sites by our customers and their desire to purchase our products. We believe the number of active customers is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our growth, brand awareness and market opportunity. Our number of active customers drives both net sales and our appeal to brands and partners. Active customers increased during the period ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 primarily due to our increased engagement with our existing customers and acquisition of new customers through our sales and marketing efforts. Although the impact, if any, is uncertain, customer behavior may be adversely affected by changes in trade policies and other macroeconomic factors. See the section titled Factors Affecting Our PerformanceOverall Economic Trends. Total Orders Placed We define total orders placed as the total number of orders placed by our customers, prior to product returns, across our platform in any given period. We view total orders placed as a key indicator of the velocity of our business and an indication of the desirability of our products and sites to our customers. Total orders placed, together with average order value, is an indicator of the net sales we expect to recognize in a given period. We believe that total orders placed is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends. Total orders placed and total orders shipped in any given period may differ slightly due to orders that are in process at the end of any particular period. Total orders placed increased in the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024, primarily due to our increased engagement with our existing customers and acquisition of new customers through our sales and marketing efforts. Although the impact, if any, is uncertain, customer behavior may be adversely affected by changes in trade policies and other macroeconomic factors. See the section titled Factors Affecting Our PerformanceOverall Economic Trends. Average Order Value We define average order value as the sum of the total gross sales from our sites in a given period, prior to product returns, divided by the total orders placed in that period. We believe our high average order value demonstrates the premium nature of our product assortment. We believe that average order value is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends. Average order 27 value varies depending on the site through which we sell merchandise, the percentage of sales at full price, and for sales at less than full price, the level of markdowns on these products, product mix, and the number of units per order. Average order value can be adversely impacted by negative consumer sentiment, including as a result of tariffs. In the near-term, we expect average order value to decrease year-over-year given the challenging macroeconomic environment, as customers seek to purchase products at more accessible price points. We expect this decrease to be partially offset by potential price increases as a result of the actual or anticipated effects of tariffs, though any long-term impact remains unclear. The impact of tariffs may also impair comparability of average order value with prior periods. See the section titled Factors Affecting Our PerformanceOverall Economic Trends. Average order value decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2025, relative to the same period in 2024, primarily due to a lower percentage of sales at full price. Factors Affecting Our Performance Overall Economic Trends The overall economic environment and related changes in consumer behavior have a significant impact on our business. In general, positive conditions in the broader economy promote customer spending on our sites, while economic weakness, which generally results in a reduction of customer spending, may have a more pronounced negative effect on spending on our sites. Macro factors that can affect consumer confidence, shopping behavior and spending patterns, and thereby our near-term and long-term results of operations, include tariffs imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments or a global trade war, inflation levels, employment rates, business conditions, , changes in the housing market, changes in the stock market, adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, the availability of credit, resumption of student loan payments, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, fuel, energy and raw material costs, supply chain challenges, and wars and geopolitical tensions. In addition, during periods of low unemployment, we generally experience higher labor costs. As of May 6, 2025, the U.S. government had imposed incremental tariffs of 145% on goods imported from China, from which we source a significant portion of our products, subject to certain exceptions. This tariff rate is comprised of a 20% tariff rate imposed under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, or the IEEPA, in March 2025 and a 125% reciprocal tariff imposed in April 2025. When factoring in the pre-existing Section 301 tariffs of 7.5%, our total tariff rate on goods imported from China is 152.5%. This is in addition to the baseline Harmonized Tariff Schedule, or HTS, tariffs, which vary by product. In addition, U.S. tariffs on goods imported from other countries from which we source products include an incremental reciprocal tariff of 10% imposed in April 2025. Heightened tariffs, particularly on Chinese goods, directly impact our owned brand products and, to a lesser extent, a limited number of third-party branded products for which we are the importer of record. In addition, we face various indirect exposures to the effects of heightened tariffs from other third-party brands. If U.S. tariffs on China or other countries from which we source products are sustained at heightened levels, it will increase our cost of sales and may also increase the price of our products. Raising prices of our products could adversely impact customer demand. In addition, heightened tariffs may adversely impact our ability to acquire products on acceptable terms and may also adversely impact global logistics, which may result in our inability to purchase sufficient inventory to meet customer demand and in turn materially and adversely impact our net sales. Furthermore, these and future changes in trade policy may adversely impact the macroeconomic environment, consumer sentiment and international demand if consumers outside of the United States boycott U.S. retailers. If we are not able to adjust our inventory levels and our inventory assortment in response to reduced customer demand, our gross margin may be adversely impacted. We are undertaking a series of actions and initiatives to mitigate the impact of heightened tariffs, including cost-sharing discussions with our owned brand manufacturing partners, diversifying our owned brand manufacturing sources outside of China, partnering with our third-party brands to mitigate the impact of tariffs, optimizing our product import logistics, selectively increasing prices for our products and further optimizing our supply chain. However, our mitigation efforts may be costly and may not yield near-term results or be as effective as we intend, or at all, and may have other negative impacts on our business, operations and financial condition. See the sections titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and IndustryTariffs imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments or a global trade war has increased and may in the future continue to increase the cost of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and We purchase inventory 28 in anticipation of sales, and if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. Customer Acquisition and Retention and Growth in Brand Awareness Our focus since inception has been on profitable growth, which has created our disciplined approach to acquiring new customers and retaining existing customers at a reasonable cost, relative to the contributions we expect from such customers. Failure to attract new visitors to our sites and convert them to customers would impact future net sales growth. If our marketing efforts do not connect with our customer or fail to cost-effectively promote our brands or convert impressions into new customers, our net sales growth and profitability will be adversely affected. Competition for social media and influencer-based marketing channels continues to increase, making it more difficult to differentiate ourselves and cost-effectively acquire customers. Furthermore, changes in the user experience on social media platforms, including a shift towards video and the level of recommended content as well as changes in privacy practices by third parties, may make it more difficult to gain customer awareness and cost-effectively acquire and retain customers. Apple Inc. has imposed requirements for consumer disclosures regarding privacy practices, and has implemented an application tracking transparency framework that requires opt-in consent for certain types of tracking. This transparency framework was launched in April 2021 and has made it more difficult and costly to acquire and retain customers. Additionally, in June 2023, Apple announced new software development kit, or SDK, privacy controls that it has integrated into iOS 17, which was released in September 2023, including new protections designed to limit tracking or identification of user devices. In February 2022, Google announced its Privacy Sandbox initiative for Android, a multi-year effort expected to restrict tracking activity and limit advertisers ability to collect app and user data across Android devices, and in July 2024, announced its change from a previously-announced plan to stop supporting third-party cookies in its Google Chrome browser as a part of this initiative. We seek to engage with our customers and build awareness of our brands through delivering unique events and experiences, as well as select retail experiences. We plan to continue to conduct events at varying levels of scale in the future and make opportunistic investments in marketing initiatives that could increase marketing as a percentage of net sales to levels in excess of historical levels for certain quarters or periods of time in the future. This incremental investment may not deliver a meaningful return in the short term and may adversely impact our operating income in the short term. Our success is impacted not only by efficient and effective customer acquisition and growth in brand awareness, but also by our ability to retain customers, engage with our community and encourage repeat purchases. Existing customers, whom we define as customers in a year who have purchased from us in any prior year, account for a greater and greater share of active customers over time. Our ability to acquire and retain customers could be adversely impacted by the effects of tariffs and other macroeconomic factors. See the section titled Overall Economic Trends. Merchandise Mix We offer merchandise across a variety of product types, brands and price points. The brands we sell on our platform consist of a mix of emerging third-party, established third-party (including iconic luxury brands) and owned brands. Our product mix consists primarily of apparel, footwear, beauty, accessories and home products. Our merchandise mix across our two reporting segments carry a range of margin profiles and may cause fluctuations in our gross margin. Shifts in our segment mix and our broader category merchandise mix may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. In the near-term, we may experience shifts in merchandise mix as a result of changes in customer demand driven by the effects of tariffs, as well as a decrease in the contribution of owned brand products and certain third-party branded products that face greater direct exposure to the impact of heightened tariffs. Shifts in merchandise mix could adversely impact our overall gross margin. 29 Inventory Management We leverage our platform and technology to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. We utilize a data-driven read and react buying process to merchandise and curate the latest on-trend fashion. We generally make shallow initial inventory buys and then use our proprietary technology tools to identify and re-order best sellers, taking into account customer feedback across a variety of key metrics, which allows us to manage inventory and fashion risk. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally purchase inventory in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In the normal course of business, we incur inventory valuation adjustments, which impacts our gross margin. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, entering new categories will require additional investments in inventory. In addition, increased tariffs and global trade instability could also negatively impact customer demand, our supply chain and cost to source from China and other countries, which in turn could adversely impact our ability to manage our inventory at appropriate levels. Shifts in inventory levels may result in fluctuations in the percentage of full price sales, levels of markdowns, merchandise mix, as well as gross margin. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure We have made investments over time to grow our customer base, enhance our offerings and deliver best-in-class service to our customers. Over the long term, we expect to continue to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment centers, and logistics infrastructure as we grow our customer base, launch new brands, expand internationally and drive operating efficiencies. We believe these investments will yield positive returns in the long term; however, we cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our customer base or be cost-effective in the short term. Segment and Geographic Performance Our financial results are affected by the performance across our two reporting segments, REVOLVE and FWRD, as well as across the various geographies in which we serve our customers. The REVOLVE segment contributes to a majority of our net sales, representing 85.7% and 84.9% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, REVOLVE generated $254.4 million and $229.6 million in net sales, respectively, representing an increase of 10.8%. The net sales increase in the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was primarily due to a lower proportion of returned purchases and an increase in the number of orders shipped. The FWRD segment contributes to a smaller portion of our overall net sales, representing 14.3% and 15.1% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, FWRD generated $42.4 million and $41.0 million in net sales, respectively, representing an increase of 3.3%. The net sales increase in the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was primarily due to a lower proportion of returned purchases and an increase in the number of orders shipped, partially offset by a decrease in average order value. Net sales to customers in the United States contributed to 80.6% and 81.0% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, net sales to customers in the United States were $239.2 million and $219.1 million, respectively, representing an increase of 9.2%. Net sales to customers outside of the United States contributed to 19.4% and 19.0% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, net sales to customers outside of the United States were $57.5 million and $51.4 million, respectively, representing an increase of 11.7%. Net sales to customers outside of the United States are impacted by various factors including import and export taxes, currency fluctuations and other macroeconomic conditions described in the section titled Overall Economic Trends. In addition, any weakening of a local currency versus the U.S. dollar results in our products becoming more 30 expensive in that local currency, which has in the past had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on demand for our products in the geographies that use such currency. Seasonality Seasonality in our business has not historically followed that of traditional retailers which typically experience concentration of net sales in the fourth quarter in connection with the holidays. Prior to 2020, we experienced increased sales in the spring and summer months that had resulted in peak sales during the second quarter of each fiscal year and lower activity in the first quarter of each fiscal year. However, in recent years, our operating results have remained relatively consistent across all quarters. As such, we do not consider our business to be materially impacted by seasonal trends at this time. Our operating results are also impacted by macroeconomic conditions described in the section titled Overall Economic Trends. Components of Our Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales consist primarily of sales of apparel, footwear, beauty, accessories and home products. We recognize product sales at the time control is transferred to the customer, which is when the product is shipped. Net sales represent the sales of these items and shipping revenue when applicable, net of estimated returns and promotional discounts. Net sales are primarily driven by growth in the number of our customers, the frequency with which customers purchase, the proportion of returned merchandise and average order value. Net sales may be impacted by tariffs and other changes to trade policy, particularly in the near term. See the section titled Factors Affecting Our PerformanceOverall Economic Trends. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of our purchase price for merchandise sold to customers and includes import duties, net of drawback claims, and other taxes, inbound freight costs, receiving costs, defective merchandise returned from customers, inventory valuation adjustments, and other miscellaneous shrinkage. Cost of sales is primarily driven by the cost of the product, the number of total orders placed by customers, the mix of the product available for sale on our sites and transportation costs related to inventory receipts from our vendors. We expect our cost of sales to fluctuate as a percentage of net sales primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. We have recently experienced and may continue to experience an increase in the cost of goods due to an increase in the cost of materials. In the near-term, we expect cost of sales as a percentage of net sales to increase as a result of increased tariffs, particularly on products with a China origin. Fulfillment Expenses Fulfillment expenses represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment centers, including costs attributed to inspecting and warehousing inventories and picking, packaging and preparing customer orders for shipment. Fulfillment expenses also include the cost of warehousing facilities. We expect fulfillment expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of net sales due to pressure from increased costs such as wages and other input cost pressure, expansion of our fulfillment network footprint and capacity, and our customers propensity to return merchandise. Longer term, we expect operating efficiencies from increased scale as well as automation of the fulfillment center workflow. Selling and Distribution Expenses Selling and distribution expenses consist primarily of shipping and other transportation costs incurred delivering merchandise to customers and from customers returning merchandise, merchant processing fees, and customer service. We expect selling and distribution expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of net sales reflecting changes to input costs, 31 particularly freight charges and fuel surcharges, from changes in our return rates, investments in international markets to offer hassle-free returns and efficiencies realized from optimized shipping methods. Marketing Expenses Marketing expenses consist primarily of targeted online performance marketing costs, such as paid search/product listing ads, affiliate marketing, paid social, retargeting, search engine optimization, personalized email and SMS marketing, and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. Marketing expenses also consist of investment in brand marketing channels, including events, payments to influencers and other forms of online and offline marketing. Marketing expenses are primarily related to growing and retaining our customer base and building the REVOLVE and FWRD brands. Over the long term, we expect marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to scale our business, and may fluctuate as a percentage of sales depending on net sales volume, the level of marketing investment in a particular period and the competitive environment. We may make opportunistic investments in marketing initiatives that may increase marketing as a percentage of net sales to levels in excess of historical levels for certain quarters or periods of time in the future. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll and related benefit costs and equity-based compensation expense for our employees involved in general corporate functions, as well as costs associated with the use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation, rent and other occupancy expenses. Over the long-term, we expect general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars to support business growth with general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales declining over the long-term as we leverage our investments and as our business scales. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales may also increase if we are unable to adjust our cost structure for changes in customer demand and net sales. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists primarily of interest income on our money market funds, partially offset by foreign currency exchange gains and losses and fees associated with our line of credit. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, other income, net also includes $2.8 million of insurance proceeds related to a settled legal matter. 32 Results of Operations The tables below set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and express the relationship of certain line items as a percentage of net sales for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net sales $ 296,709 $ 270,581 Cost of sales 142,423 129,079 Gross profit 154,286 141,502 Operating expenses: Fulfillment expenses 9,358 9,393 Selling and distribution expenses 49,956 48,438 Marketing expenses 42,402 41,379 General and administrative expenses 37,882 32,964 Total operating expenses 139,598 132,174 Income from operations 14,688 9,328 Other income, net (893 ) (5,321 ) Income before income taxes 15,581 14,649 Provision for income taxes 4,175 3,776 Net income $ 11,406 $ 10,873 Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 48.0 % 47.7 % Gross profit 52.0 % 52.3 % Operating expenses: Fulfillment expenses 3.2 % 3.5 % Selling and distribution expenses 16.8 % 17.9 % Marketing expenses 14.3 % 15.3 % General and administrative expenses 12.8 % 12.2 % Total operating expenses 47.1 % 48.9 % Income from operations 4.9 % 3.4 % Other income, net (0.3 %) (2.0 %) Income before income taxes 5.2 % 5.4 % Provision for income taxes 1.4 % 1.4 % Net income 3.8 % 4.0 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Net Sales Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 296,709 $ 270,581 $ 26,128 9.7 % The increase in net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was primarily due to a lower proportion of returned purchases combined with a 3.8% increase in the number of orders shipped, partially offset by a 1.3% decrease in the average order value. 33 Net sales in the REVOLVE segment increased 10.8% to $254.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to net sales of $229.6 million in the same period in 2024. Net sales in the FWRD segment increased 3.3% to $42.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to net sales of $41.0 million in the same period in 2024. Cost of Sales Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of sales $ 142,423 $ 129,079 $ 13,344 10.3 % Percentage of net sales 48.0 % 47.7 % The increase in cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was primarily due to an increase in net sales. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a lower percentage of full price sales and deeper markdowns on markdown sales, partially offset by a lower mix of third-party brand sales. Third-party brand sales generally carry lower gross margins than that of owned brand sales. Fulfillment Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Fulfillment expenses $ 9,358 $ 9,393 $ (35 ) (0.4 %) Percentage of net sales 3.2 % 3.5 % Fulfillment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were relatively flat as compared to the same period in 2024. The decrease in fulfillment expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a lower proportion of returned purchases. Selling and Distribution Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Selling and distribution expenses $ 49,956 $ 48,438 $ 1,518 3.1 % Percentage of net sales 16.8 % 17.9 % The increase in selling and distribution expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was due to a $0.6 million increase in merchant processing fees, a $0.5 million increase in customer service expenses and a $0.4 million increase in other shipping expenses. The decrease in selling and distribution expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to lower shipping rates and a lower proportion of returned purchases as compared to the same period in the prior year, partially offset by a decrease in average order value. 34 Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Marketing expenses $ 42,402 $ 41,379 $ 1,023 2.5 % Percentage of net sales 14.2 % 15.3 % The increase in marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was due to a $4.4 million increase in performance marketing expense, partially offset by a $3.3 million decrease in brand marketing expense. The decrease in marketing expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to efficiencies in our brand marketing investments. General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expenses $ 37,882 $ 32,964 $ 4,918 14.9 % Percentage of net sales 12.8 % 12.2 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was primarily due to a $1.8 million increase related to professional services and other occupancy costs, a $1.6 million increase in salaries and related benefits, a $0.2 million increase in equity-based compensation expense and a $1.3 million increase in other operating expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was driven by growth in general and administrative expenses outpacing growth in net sales. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Income before income taxes $ 15,581 $ 14,649 Provision for income taxes 4,175 3,776 Effective tax rate 26.8 % 25.8 % The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was primarily due to an increase in valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, partially offset by an increase in excess tax benefits related to the exercise of non-qualified stock options. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and working capital as of the dates indicated: As of March 31, 2025 December 31, 2024 (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 300,831 $ 256,600 Accounts receivable, net 16,820 10,338 Working capital(1) 374,772 364,991 (1) Working capital for all periods presented above is defined as current assets less current liabilities. 35 As of March 31, 2025, the majority of our cash and cash equivalents was held for working capital purposes. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and available borrowing capacity under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, our liquidity assumptions may prove to be incorrect and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. We may seek to borrow funds under our line of credit or raise additional funds at any time through equity, equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the Risk Factors section of this report. We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our operating requirements on acceptable terms or at all. Sources of Liquidity Since our inception, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through cash flows generated by operations, private sales of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the net proceeds we received through our IPO, as well as proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. Line of Credit On March 23, 2021, we amended and restated our existing credit agreement to, among other things, extend the expiration date from March 23, 2021 to March 23, 2026. On May 11, 2023, we amended the credit agreement to replace the LIBO reference rate with a term SOFR reference rate and made conforming changes throughout the credit agreement. The line of credit provides us with up to $75.0 million aggregate principal in revolver borrowings, based on eligible inventory and accounts receivable less reserves. Borrowings under the credit agreement accrue interest, at our option, at (1) a base rate equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds rate, plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate and (c) an adjusted term SOFR rate determined on the basis of a one-month interest period, plus 1.00%, or (2) an adjusted term SOFR rate, subject to a floor of 0.00%, in each case, plus a margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75% per year in the case of base rate loans, and 1.25% to 1.75% per year in the case of term SOFR rate loans. No borrowings were outstanding as of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024. We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type, including an unused commitment fee. The credit agreement also permits us, in certain circumstances, to request an increase in the facility by an additional amount of up to $25.0 million (in an initial minimum amount of $10.0 million and in increments of $5.0 million thereafter) at the same maturity, pricing and other terms. Our obligations under the credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. The credit agreement also contains customary covenants restricting certain of our activities, including limitations on our ability to sell assets, engage in mergers and acquisitions, enter into transactions involving related parties, obtain letters of credit, incur indebtedness, repurchase stock or grant liens or negative pledges on our assets, make loans or make other investments. Under these covenants, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends with respect to our capital stock. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024. Uses of Cash Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from operating costs such as merchandise purchases, compensation and benefits, lease obligations, marketing and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. In addition, in August 2023, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $100 million of our outstanding Class A common stock. The timing and amount of any stock repurchases is determined based on market conditions, stock price and other factors, and the program does not require us to repurchase any specific number of shares of Class A common stock. The program has no expiration date but it may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time. The stock repurchase program is funded from available cash and cash equivalents. For more information about repurchases made under our stock repurchase program, see Part II, Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 36 Historical Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 45,145 $ 38,391 Net cash used in investing activities (2,341 ) (1,735 ) Net cash used in financing activities (531 ) (8,264 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash from operating activities consists primarily of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation, equity-based compensation, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we generated $45.1 million of operating cash flow as compared to $38.4 million for the same period in 2024. The increase in our operating cash flow was primarily due to favorable impact from changes in working capital and higher net income adjusted for certain non-cash items. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Our primary investing activities have consisted of purchases of property and equipment to support our fulfillment centers and our overall business growth and internally developed software for the continued development of our proprietary technology infrastructure and purchases of rental product. Purchases of property and equipment may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and extent of the expansion of our operations. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.3 million and $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Our financing activities primarily consist of repurchases of our Class A common stock, proceeds from the exercise of stock options, tax withholdings on share-based payment awards and borrowings and repayments related to the existing line of credit, when applicable. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, and was primarily attributable to tax withholdings on share-based payment awards, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities was $8.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and was primarily attributable to repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock under our stock repurchase program. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2025, our principal contractual obligations consist of obligations under operating leases for office and fulfillment facilities. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments as compared to the contractual obligations disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2025. Inflation We have been impacted by high levels of inflation in recent periods resulting in part from various supply chain disruptions, increased shipping and transportation costs, increased merchandise and labor costs and other disruptions caused by general economic and market conditions. We continue to monitor the impact of inflation in order to minimize its effects through pricing strategies, productivity improvements and cost reductions. These mitigating actions may adversely impact demand for our products. Furthermore, if costs were to become subject to significant incremental inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2025. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 38