Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date hereof, and forward-looking statements in documents that are incorporated by reference speak only as of the date of those documents. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted a thorough inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Furthermore, if our forward-looking statements prove to be inaccurate, the inaccuracy may be material. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or any other person that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In this report, we, our, us, Company and Revolve refer to Revolve Group, Inc., and where appropriate its subsidiaries. 6 PAR T I Item 1. BUSINESS Our Business REVOLVE is the next-generation fashion retailer for Millennial and Generation Z consumers. As a trusted, premium lifestyle brand, and a go-to online source for discovery and inspiration, we deliver an engaging customer experience from a vast yet curated offering totaling over 49,000 apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty styles. Our dynamic platform connects a deeply engaged community of millions of consumers, thousands of global fashion influencers, and more than 1,000 emerging, established and owned brands. Through 18 years of continued investment in technology, data analytics, and innovative marketing and merchandising strategies, we have built a powerful platform and brand that we believe is connecting with the next generation of consumers and is redefining fashion retail for the 21st century. Our co-chief executive officers founded REVOLVE in 2003 with the vision of leveraging digital channels and technology to transform the shopping experience, offering a scaled, one-stop destination for youthful, aspirational consumers. We believe that our model, which is more targeted than department stores or mass-market online retailers, and provides a greater selection than specialty retailers, allows us to more effectively serve consumers. To improve on the merchandise offerings of traditional retail, we have built a custom, proprietary technology platform to manage nearly all aspects of our business, with a particular focus on developing sophisticated and highly automated inventory management, pricing, and trend-forecasting algorithms. Our proprietary technology leverages data from a vast net of styles, attributes and customer interactions to create a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. We have complemented these efforts with an organization built from the ground up to make decisions in a data-first, customer centric way. Our approach facilitates constant newness, with over 900 new styles launched per week on average in 2020. Illustrating the efficacy of our data-driven merchandising, in 2020, despite headwinds from the COVID-19 pandemic, approximately 77% of our net sales were at full price, which we define as sales with a price of not less than 95% of the full retail price. Our powerful brand and innovative marketing strategy connect with the increasingly important Millennial and Generation Z demographics. We believe we are recognized as a pioneer and a leader in social media and influencer marketing. We have built a community of thousands of influencers and brand partners, including some of the most influential social media celebrities in the world. Through our recognized leadership position, deep relationships and history of mutually beneficial partnerships, we believe we have become a partner of choice for influencers worldwide, leading to a competitive advantage. These marketing efforts deliver authentic, aspirational experiences and lifestyle content that drive long term loyalty and engagement. We complement our emotional brand marketing with sophisticated, data-driven performance marketing to further drive efficient customer acquisition and strong customer retention and lifetime value. Our data-driven merchandising and innovative marketing competencies enable a powerful owned brand strategy that drives consumer demand, differentiates our merchandise assortment, increases control of our supply chain, and has the opportunity to expand gross profit margins over the long term. We have built a portfolio of 24 owned brands, each crafted with unique attributes and supported by independent marketing investments. We believe our consumers perceive these as highly desirable, independent brands, rather than private labels or house brands. In 2020, our owned brands represented six out of our top 10 brands and contributed 26.7% of the REVOLVE segments net sales. Our Industry Large and Growing Addressable Market. We participate in the large and growing apparel and footwear, accessories and beauty sectors. We believe the key drivers shaping growth within these markets include favorable demographic trends, constant product newness and the proliferation of emerging brands, as well as an increased focus on fashion and beauty as a reflection of self-expression. 7 Significant Growth in Digital Channels. Consumers are increasingly using digital channels to make purchases, a trend accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic and, to a lesser extent, the closure of tens of thousands of physical retail stores in recent years. A s a result, the growth of online sales has meaningfully outpaced that of traditional brick-and-mortar channels. Mobile sales in particular have rapidly increased as consumers leverage their ability to discover, browse and purchase anytime from anywhere through their mobile devices . I n 2020 , customer orders placed through mobile devices represented 60 . 4 % o f our total orders. Media Consumption and Shopping Behaviors of Next-Generation Consumers. Consumers, especially Millennials (born between 1982 and 2000) and Generation Z (born after 2000), are spending more and more time on digital media and less time on more traditional forms of print media. Millennials, who came of age in a hyper-connected, digital world, spend a significant amount of time on digital media, especially social media. The nature of consumer engagement with brands and retailers is evolving in tandem with the transition to digital channels. Next-generation consumers often aspire to express their individual style through fashion and beauty. More than older generations of consumers, they frequently seek an emotional connection with brands that are unique and on-trend and resonate with their values. They look to social media and digital content from influencers as their source of inspiration and discovery and to inform their purchasing decisions. Influencers have an outsized impact on the purchasing behaviors of next-generation consumers. Influencers maintain a social media presence on platforms such as Instagram, YouTube and TikTok, and have thousands or even millions of engaged followers. Influencers can have a more powerful impact than traditional advertising methods because they bring their followers into their daily lives and share their personal tastes and preferences in an authentic way. This evolution in consumer behavior accompanies a significant transition of purchasing power to the Millennial generation. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Millennials accounted for more than 25% of the U.S. population in 2019, exceeding the number of baby boomers and making it the largest percentage of the workforce in the United States. Further, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, people born after 1981, including Millennials and Generation Z, accounted for approximately $1.7 trillion or 22% of the nations total consumer expenditure in 2017. We expect this number to increase over time as Millennials enter their peak earning years and an increasing percentage of Generation Z joins the workforce. Next-Generation Consumers are Underserved by Retail and eCommerce. Although the apparel and footwear, accessories and beauty sectors are large, we believe the next-generation consumer is underserved by traditional brick-and-mortar and online retailers. Department stores and national retailers try to serve a broad demographic with ubiquitous brands and are slow to react to changing trends. Specialty boutiques, while highly curated, often offer a narrow assortment and are limited in their reach. Many online retailers tend to deliver a purely transactional customer experience, with limited original fashion content and style advice to facilitate inspiration and discovery. Our Competitive Strengths Leading Millennial Destination for Online Fashion . We believe we are the leading U.S. online destination targeted towards Millennial and Generation Z consumers seeking premium fashion. In 2020, we generated $580.6 million in net sales, served approximately 1.5 million active customers, offered over 1,000 brands and delivered over 120,000 unique styles, which we believe makes us one of the largest standalone fashion eCommerce businesses in the United States. Our average order value was $236 in 2020, which is reflective of our focus on premium merchandise and our differentiation from mass market or value-based retailers. Our business is specifically targeted towards Millennial consumers, predominantly female, and we believe this more specific targeting results in a better experience for our customer, leading to strong customer loyalty and increases in market share over time. We further believe our scaled leadership position has strong network effects among our customers, brands, and influencers, as we are able to provide increasing value to each of those constituents as our scale and leadership position increases. Data-driven Merchandising Model . Our disciplined, data-driven merchandising approach allows us to offer a broad, yet curated assortment of on-trend apparel, footwear, beauty and accessories while managing fashion and inventory risk. We employ a read and react model that combines qualitative and quantitative decision-making to identify trends, curate assortments, facilitate our merchandise planning and re-order processes, and manage pricing. Our technology enables us to automate the rapid identification of new trends and emerging brands, allowing us to offer a vast and diversified product assortment that does not rely on any given trend or style and has minimal overlap with other retailers. Furthermore, by introducing products daily in limited quantities, we create a sense of urgency for 8 our customers. As a result, s ales of products at full retail price represented approximately 77 % , 79%, and 7 9 % of total net sales in 2020 , 2019 and 2018, respectively. The REVOLVE Brand . Since inception, we have worked to build a deep connection with our community of youthful, aspirational consumers. Our consumers frequently engage with us, coming to us for our inspiring content and styling, and our distinct and constantly changing assortment of on-trend fashion. REVOLVE is a brand in its own right, commanding a premium positioning, strong consumer affinity and reputation as a key fashion influencer for the next generation consumer. As our scale grows, our brand value is increasingly becoming a significant point of differentiation with customers, influencers and third-party brands. Innovative Marketing Approach . REVOLVEs marketing approach is integrated across all parts of the customer funnel and allows us to efficiently increase brand awareness, promote customer acquisition, encourage retention and maximize customer lifetime value. We have a history of being a leader in innovative digital and community-driven marketing and we believe we have positioned ourselves as a preferred partner for influencers and traditional marketing providers. We continuously provide our customers with aspirational and engaging content and amplify our message in a highly efficient manner through our network of thousands of influencers, buzzworthy social events and content that connects with her current lifestyle. In 2020, we drove 53% of traffic for REVOLVE from free and low-cost sources, as measured by the number of visitors who landed on the REVOLVE website or mobile application directly, via email marketing links, or though paid branded search terms and organic search results. We tightly integrate our marketing messaging into the shopping experience through compelling product curation, editorial content and daily product stories, creating a consistent experience for our customers across all touch points and allowing us to further control our merchandise sell-through. We complement our social media and community-driven brand marketing with sophisticated performance marketing efforts, including retargeting, paid search/product listing ads, paid social, affiliate marketing, search engine optimization, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our apps, which together support our attractive customer acquisition and retention metrics. Deep Connection with Our Loyal Customers . We understand the next-generation consumer, how she communicates and where she seeks fashion and lifestyle inspiration. We engage with her through social media, events, press and other digital channels, generating multiple touchpoints in an authentic way that we believe traditional retailers and brands do not. We integrate our marketing content with our product curation, visual merchandising, and editorial content, using our Hot List, daily product stories, featured shops and head-to-toe style suggestions to create an inspirational user experience and enhance our reputation as a fashion discovery destination. We enhance our customer experience and encourage our customers to use the home as a dressing room through exceptional customer service and a no-hassle free shipping and returns policy, which we have offered since our launch in 2003, making us one of the pioneers of free returns. She rewards our efforts with her loyalty, as demonstrated by our strong customer economics. Our efficient customer acquisition, strong net revenue retention rates and high average order values drive attractive customer lifetime value, with the average contribution margin from a customer exceeding our average customer acquisition cost within a short timeframe. Unique Owned Brand Platform . We leverage our data-driven merchandising model to optimize our product assortment through the development of new owned brands and additional styles within our existing portfolio of owned brands. Our team develops brands that embody a unique aesthetic and authentic point of view, using our proprietary data analytics to identify trends and assortment gaps and inform design and merchandising decisions, and supporting them with brand and performance marketing. Unlike traditional private label, our owned brands command pricing similar to third-party brands due to their brand equity, as demonstrated by their collective social media following, which exceeded 4.4 million followers on Instagram as of December 31, 2020, representing a 47% increase as compared to December 31, 2019. Further, the owned brand portfolio enhances loyalty, given that the substantial majority of our owned brand styles are available only on the REVOLVE site. We bring new products to market quickly by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and employ our read and react model. The broad reach of our social mediadriven marketing and events generates consumer appeal and credibility for our owned brands, expanding our reach and driving incremental traffic to our sites. The COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 led us to temporarily shift more of our inventory purchases to third-party inventory where we can make shallower initial inventory buys across a broader range of styles. Net sales of owned brands represented 26.7%, 36.1% and 30.9% of REVOLVE segment net sales for 2020, 2019, and 2018 respectively. Proprietary, Scalable Technology and Data Analytics Platform . Our proprietary, scalable technology and data analytics platform efficiently and seamlessly manages our merchandising, marketing, fulfillment, product development, sourcing, and pricing decisions. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to flexibly expand capacity in a capital-efficient manner. We leverage a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points, drawing from 18 years of data across hundreds of thousands of styles, up to 60 attributes per style, and millions of customer interactions. This data is leveraged throughout our operations to provide an optimized product offering, 9 tailor our marketing efforts and continually enhance the experience on our sites. Our team of engineers , data scientists and business analysts continuously innovate to improve our platform and business processes to best serve our customers. Founder-led Management and Innovative Culture . The inspiration of our co-chief executive officers, Mike Karanikolas and Michael Mente, to transform the apparel shopping experience by leveraging data and through innovative business strategies continues to influence everything we do. Our company culture and team mirror the attributes of our core customer; we are socially engaged, digital-first, high energy, results driven and collaborative. We hire people who are passionate about fashion, technology and entrepreneurialism, and who are not burdened by conventional notions of traditional retail. We encourage creativity and constant improvement with a singular focus on the customer experience. We give our employees the opportunity to make an immediate contribution to our business, while maintaining our commitment to maximizing value over the long term. The success of our managerial strategies and innovative culture is evident in our long track record and our ability to manage through significant challenges in the macroeconomic environment, including the great recession in 2008 and 2009 and the current COVID-19 pandemic. Our Growth Strategies Continue to Acquire New Customers . Our efficient customer acquisition combines with strong repeat purchase behavior to generate an attractive ratio of customer lifetime value to customer acquisition cost. We believe we are well-positioned in the market and there is significant room to expand our customer base. As a result, we will continue to invest in attracting new customers to the REVOLVE community and convert them into active customers. Continue to Increase Customer Loyalty and Wallet Share . We intend to deepen our existing customer relationships to improve our already strong revenue retention and increase our wallet share through enhancing our customer experience, engaging with her in ways that address more aspects of her life, and expanding our loyalty and preferred customer programs for high-value consumers. Enhance and Broaden Our Offering . We intend to leverage our community and influencer network, owned brand capabilities and integrated, data-driven operating model to further expand our share of adjacent categories, building on our successful category expansion in 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic. Grow International Sales . We intend to further localize and improve the shopping experience and merchandise selection for our international customers and leverage the global reach of the REVOLVE brand and our influencer network to accelerate growth outside of the United States. Grow Sales of Owned Brands . We intend to continue optimizing our assortment to drive revenue and profitability growth by introducing new owned brands and expanding our current owned brands into additional styles and categories. Continue to Innovate . We are innovating across our user interface, technology platform, supply chain and distribution capabilities to improve service levels, further enhance and personalize the customer experience, increase conversion rates, and reduce lead times for our owned brands portfolio. Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Investments . We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that we believe will be complementary to our business and operations, including opportunities that can help us promote our brands across new and existing categories, demographics and geographies, expand our product offerings, improve our technology infrastructure and enhance the customer experience. Our Merchandising, Assortment and Content We leverage one platform to sell merchandise primarily through two retail segments, REVOLVE and FORWARD, which offer complementary assortments. REVOLVE offers constant newness and discovery through a broad yet curated assortment of premium apparel and footwear, accessories and beauty products. FORWARD offers a curated assortment of iconic and emerging luxury brands with a strong and differentiated point of view. We offer a broad yet curated assortment totaling over 49,000 apparel and footwear styles, as well as accessories and beauty products, presented in a visually compelling manner to encourage discovery and engagement. Since our inception, we have attracted and maintained strong relationships with a diversified group of premium lifestyle and 10 luxury brands, from emerging designers to globally recognized brands. These brand relationships provide customers with breadth across product categories and styles, while reinforcing REVOLVEs position as the destination for discovery. We continuously identify new brands and refine the brands we feature to foster a sense of newness and encourage discovery. We optimize our assortment through the d evelopment of a portfolio of 24 owned brands that span multiple categories. We apply market insights and proprietary data analytics to identify gaps and emerging trends within the marketplace. We then develop new styles for existing brands or launch new brands with a unique aesthetic or category focus to address these areas. When coupled with our innovative marketing approach, we develop strong brand equi ty for each owned brand. We bring new owned brand products to market quickly by working with a flexible network of manufacturing partners and third-party suppliers. We work with suppliers and manufacturers in China, the United States, India, and other countries. Historically, a majority of our owned brand products and a substantial portion of the products we source from third parties have been manufactured in China. We continue to expand our supplier network in existing and other geographies. We have developed deep relationships with a number of our suppliers and make efforts to ensure that all suppliers share our commitment to quality and ethics. We do not have any long-term agreements requiring us to use any manufacturer, and no manufacturer is required to produce our products in the long term. We update our sites daily with new editorial content to generate a constant flow of fresh, high-quality, authentic and engaging content to provide an inspiring and engaging experience for our customers, driving frequent visits to our sites and helping to promote the discovery of new, relevant brands and products. Our Marketing Approach We leverage a variety of marketing and advertising programs to drive traffic to our websites, increase brand awareness, acquire new customers, engage with our existing customers and strengthen and reinforce our brand. We are pioneers of social media and influencer marketing, using social channels and cultural events designed to deliver authentic and aspirational, yet attainable, experiences to attract and retain customers. These efforts have led to higher earned media value than competitors. We have a global network of thousands of influencers who regularly post about REVOLVE content. We believe we are a preferred partner for influencers, as their association with REVOLVE enhances our influencers personal brands. Our network is constantly evolving as we assess the breadth of individual influencers social media followings and resonance with our core demographic. We complement our social media efforts through a variety of brand marketing campaigns and in-person events, including the #REVOLVEfestival, #REVOLVEsummer, #REVOLVEaroundtheworld and the #REVOLVEawards attended by our top influencers, who promote both the REVOLVE brand and our merchandise. As a result of the restrictions associated with COVID-19, we temporarily paused most of our in-person social events during 2020 and pivoted into hosting virtual livestreaming events featuring influencers, celebrities and fashion designers. This expansion in our brand marketing strategy enabled us to remain connected with our customer during this significant shift in her lifestyle. We believe the combination of in-person and virtual events will be a strong combination in the future. Our online presence includes over 7.5 million Instagram followers across REVOLVE, FORWARD and our owned brands as of December 31, 2020. We complement our powerful social media and influencer marketing with a robust digital performance marketing strategy. Our digital performance marketing efforts are focused on acquiring and retaining customers through a variety of channels including retargeting, paid search/product listing ads, paid social, affiliate marketing, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our apps. Our Technology Platform Our technology integrates seamlessly across multiple functions throughout the organization, connecting in a way that allows constant iteration and optimization. Our proprietary algorithms and technology infrastructure create the foundation for everything we do and include: Data Science . Our technology mines data from a database we have built over 18 years, consisting of hundreds of thousands of styles and millions of customer interactions, creating a strategic asset of hundreds of millions of data points. 11 Merchandising . Our algorithms optimize pricing based on demand, automatically identify and re-order best sellers based on purchase trends and browsing feedback, and maintain the right depth of available inventory to maximize margins and net sales at full price. Marketing . Our algorithms analyze the billions of impressions generated by our influencer network and the number of click-throughs and conversion rates from our performance marketing efforts to cost-efficiently and effectively market to consumers. We utilize customer shopping and purchase behavior to personalize our email and retargeting efforts seamlessly across multiple customer touch points. Site Experience . We provide a highly differentiated site experience that leverages our visual merchandising capabilities to reflect REVOLVEs distinct point of view. We use our algorithms and A/B testing to analyze browsing and purchasing patterns and preferences. We further analyze the impressions and related conversion rates to most effectively display, style and photograph our merchandise. We leverage these learnings to optimize product placement and site navigation in order to encourage discovery and drive higher conversion and average order value. Customer Service and Relationships . Our customer service technology is complimented by third party technology and provides our representatives with up to date and relevant product and fulfillment information to better serve our customer regardless of the communication channel. We generate highly personalized and relevant full life-cycle email and retargeting messaging. Our systems also continue to learn about each customer through historical purchase behavior as well as direct customer feedback and these learnings are applied to future interactions. Fulfillment . The algorithms we use in our fulfillment center allows us to efficiently position inventory and combine orders to reduce shipping costs. These algorithms also determine the most efficient manner to fulfill each order, including optimizing the way in which inventory is picked and when orders are shipped. In 2019, we invested in incremental automation to enhance our fulfillment operations. In 2020, we further invested in automation, the combination of which furthers our ability to serve our customers in a rapid and efficient manner. Our proprietary technology infrastructure is highly scalable and has allowed us to grow with our customer demand, vendor base and brands. We supplement our technology team with a team of data scientists that support teams across the organization through reporting and analysis. Our Customer Service, Fulfillment and Logistics A key element of our business is our ability to provide an exceptional customer experience throughout her purchasing journey. Our ability to fulfill orders, and process returns, quickly and accurately is critically important to the customer experience. We do not outsource our core customer service or fulfillment operations, and similarly, we ship all orders directly to our customers. Customers can engage with us in 10 languages, use one of 20 payment methods and pay in up to 130 currencies. While we do not extend credit to our customers, we do offer third-party payment alternatives that allow our customers to make installment payments. We also offer a loyalty program for REVOLVE customers. The loyalty program affords participating customers additional benefits such as early access to new styles, early access to items on sale and invitations to exclusive events. The FORWARD preferred customer program enables clients to receive products specifically curated for them by our stylists. Our technology platform is supplemented by our customer service, fulfillment and logistics teams. Our customer service team, through interactions with our customers by phone, email, text or instant-message, primarily addresses questions relating to orders, deliveries and returns, and also answers questions regarding fit, color, size, and other style matters to ensure customer satisfaction. Our fulfillment and logistics team oversees order fulfillment, ensuring that orders are efficiently and accurately processed, packed, shipped and delivered to customers. In 2019, we consolidated our fulfillment operations into a single facility and incorporated automation processes into our warehouse workflow. These enhancements have created a highly scalable, flexible infrastructure that optimizes inventory and order allocation, reduces shipping and fulfillment expenses and delivers merchandise quickly and efficiently to our 12 customers. Our fulfillment, shipping and return processes create a seamless customer experience, which fosters customer loyalty. Our proprietary inventory tracking system enables our customers to receive real-time updates regarding the status of their orders. We offer free two-day shipping and free returns to customers in the United States and in certain areas of California, we offer free next-day shipping. Our efficient operations allow us to ship approximately 98% of orders on the same day if placed before noon Pacific Time. We are also able to ship to and service customers in over 200 countries and territories and are able to serve over 8 0 % of our international sales within two to three days. We have a proven history of leveraging our technology platform to expand capacity and increase service levels in a capital-efficient manner. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance our platform in the United States and internationally. Human Capital As of December 31, 2020, we had 843 employees, all of which are employed in the United States. On a limited basis, we may use temporary personnel to supplement our workforce as business needs arise. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Our human capital resources objectives are focused on the safety, retention and development of our existing employees and the recruitment of new employees. We are focused on building a team and culture that is diverse, respectful, socially engaged, digital-first, high energy, results driven and collaborative. We believe our compensation programs are competitive relative to others in our industry and geography and are designed to attract, retain and reward personnel through the combination of cash-based compensation, equity-based compensation and benefits. The following table sets forth the number of employees by team as of December 31, 2020: Team As of December 31, 2020 Fulfillment and logistics 357 Owned brands 89 Customer service 88 Creative photography, studio and editorial 69 Merchandising and planning 66 Technology and data science 41 Marketing 39 Other 94 Total 843 Seasonality Seasonality in our business does not follow that of traditional retailers, such as typical concentration of net sales in the holiday quarter. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our historical seasonality and resulted in the cancellation of several REVOLVE brand marketing events, including #REVOLVEfestival, which historically resulted in peak sales during the second quarter of each fiscal year. We also have experienced seasonally lower activity during the first quarter of each fiscal year, which was further impacted by COVID-19 in the first quarter of 2020. The seasonality trends that we have experienced historically will continue to be affected in the near term as we continue to navigate through the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. With the exception of this specific event or events like it, we expect our historical seasonality to continue in future years. Competition The online and offline retail markets generally, as well as the premium lifestyle and luxury product markets more specifically, are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We face significant competition from e-Commerce websites including apparel and accessories-oriented eCommerce websites as well as the eCommerce websites of 13 traditional retailers and premium and luxury brands. We also face competition from in-person stores and boutiques including traditional retailers, as well as fashion boutiques. We compete based on product selection, differentiation and curation, brand quality and strength of brand relationships, relevance, convenience, ease of use and consumer experience, including order fulfillment and shipping timeliness and return policies. We believe we compete favorably across these factors taken as a whole. Intellectual Property We primarily protect our intellectual property through the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States. As of December 31, 2020, we owned over 330 trademark registrations, over 160 trademark applications, and over 70 Internet domain names. Although we have not sought copyright registration for our technology or works to date, we rely on common law copyright and trade secret protections in relation to our proprietary technology, products and the content displayed on our sites, including our photography and fabric prints that we design. Our trademark registrations and applications, which we have filed in the United States and in various jurisdictions outside the United States, have focused primarily on the REVOLVE and FORWARD word marks and those marks associated with our owned brands. Our trademarks, including domain names, are material to our business and brand identity. Information About Segment and Geographic Revenue For information about segment and geographic revenue, see Note 10, Segment Information , to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report . Government Regulation Our business is subject to a number of domestic and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations include federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, which address, among other things, the privacy and security of consumer information, sending of commercial email, and unfair and deceptive trade practices. Our international business is subject to additional laws and regulations, including restrictions on imports from, exports to, and services provided to persons located in certain countries and territories, as well as foreign laws and regulations addressing topics such as advertising and marketing practices, customs duties and taxes, privacy, data protection, information security and consumer rights, any of which might apply by virtue of our operations in foreign countries and territories or our contacts with consumers in such foreign countries and territories. In addition, our beauty products are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations principally relate to the ingredients, proper labeling, advertising, marketing, manufacture, safety, shipment and disposal of our products. For more information about laws and regulations applicable to our business, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulation and TaxationFailure to comply with federal, state and international laws and regulations and our contractual obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Corporate Information We were originally formed as Advance Holdings, LLC in December 2012 as a Delaware limited liability company. In October 2018, we changed our name to Revolve Group, LLC. In connection with our initial public offering, or IPO, on June 6, 2019, Revolve Group, LLC converted into a Delaware corporation pursuant to a statutory conversion and changed its name to Revolve Group, Inc. so that the top-tier entity in our corporate structure was a corporation rather than a limited liability company. Our principal executive office is located at 12889 Moore Street, Cerritos, California 90703. Our telephone number is (562) 677-9480. 14 Available Information We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our website is located at www.Revolve.com , and our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at www.Investors.Revolve.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report . Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves certain risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, including the section of this report captioned Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the events described in the following risk factors or the risks described elsewhere in this report occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and likely will continue to adversely affect, our business, financial position, results of operations and growth prospects. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and likely will continue to have, severe negative repercussions across local, state and national economies and financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a deterioration in the global economy and our industry and could result in a sustained period of substantial economic and financial turmoil. Our employees, suppliers and customers are located in areas affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has subjected us to many risks, including the impact from: business restrictions and social distancing mandates, which have caused us to curtail normal operations and reduced productivity; the cancellation of brand marketing events, including the #REVOLVEfestival, that have historically driven customer acquisition and demand for our merchandise; changes in consumer behavior, confidence and discretionary spending; increased reliance on remote work arrangements; supply chain disruptions; and a global slowdown and profound economic uncertainty. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have required all employees who are able to do so to work remotely indefinitely. It is possible that widespread remote work arrangements may have a negative impact on our operations, the execution of our business plans, the productivity and availability of key personnel and other employees necessary to conduct our business, and on third -party service providers who perform critical services for us, or otherwise cause operational failures due to changes in our normal business practices necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental actions. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event occurred that impacted our employees ability to work remotely, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working may also result in 15 consumer privacy, data security, and fraud risks, and our understanding of applicable legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the latest guidance from regulatory authorities in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, may be subject to legal or regulatory challenge, particularly as regulatory guidance evolves in response to future developments. The ultimate scope and duration of the COVID-19 pandemics impact on the global economy and our industry are difficult to predict. There can be no assurances that the actions we have already taken or will take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic will prevent or mitigate any associated risks or repercussions. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the pandemic, its severity, the actions to contain the disease or mitigate its impact, and the duration, timing and severity of the impact on customer behavior, including any recession resulting from the pandemic, all of which are unpredictable. An extended period of economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic would have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and growth prospects. The COVID-19 pandemic may also intensify the risks described in the other risk factors disclosed in this report. Our operating results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, social unrest or other catastrophic events. Our principal offices, data centers and our fulfillment center are located in Southern California, an area which has a history of earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war and other political instability; social unrest; or other catastrophic events, whether occurring in the United States or internationally, could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our third-party providers or vendors. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Prior to the COVID-19 outbreak in the United States in March 2020, we were growing rapidly; however, with the onset of COVID-19 and the related social distancing and stay-at-home orders around the world, demand for our products was materially negatively impacted. In response to the pandemic, the significantly reduced demand for our products and related unforeseen business conditions, we took several actions in early April 2020 to reduce costs and operations to levels that were more commensurate with then-current sales. Those actions included furloughs, pay reductions, reductions in capital expenditures and, to a lesser extent, layoffs, among other things. As net sales improved, in part due to the easing of stay-at-home orders and other state-imposed restrictions on businesses, we began to bring back furloughed employees and return our corporate employees to their pre-COVID-19 salaries and wages. Consumer behavior may be slow to return to pre-COVID-19 patterns and levels, if at all. To effectively manage future growth we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve our business processes, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems, and expand, train and manage our employee base. To return to and support future growth, we must effectively induce service providers that were affected by our COVID-19 responses to return or stay with us or integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees while maintaining our corporate culture. We face significant competition for personnel. Our ability to return to growth may be complicated by the actions we have taken and their effect on service providers who may seek opportunities with other companies. To attract top talent, we offer, and expect to continue to offer, competitive compensation and benefits packages before we can validate the productivity of new employees. We may also elect to increase compensation levels to remain competitive in attracting and retaining talented employees. We may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs or successfully integrate new hires, our efficiency, our ability to meet forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are also required to manage numerous relationships with various vendors and other third parties. Changes in our operations, vendor base, fulfillment center, information technology systems or internal