Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning proposed new services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words may, will, estimate, intend, continue, believe, expect, anticipate or any other similar words. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed or incorporated by reference in our filings with the SEC. Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial results; our ability to effectively manage or sustain our growth and to effectively expand our operations; our ability to retain our existing customers and acquire new customers; our ability to retain existing vendors and brands and to attract new vendors and brands; our ability to obtain and maintain differentiated high-quality products from appropriate brands in sufficient quantities from vendors; our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient inventory at prices that will make our business model profitable, and of a quality that will continue to retain existing customers and attract new customers; our reliance on overseas suppliers and manufacturing partners, particularly in China; our ability to respond to consumer demand, spending and tastes, and our ability to accurately and effectively engage in predictive analytics; general economic conditions and their impact on consumer demand; our ability to expand our operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; our ability to sustain and expand our gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA margin, a non-GAAP financial measure; our ability to maintain and enhance our brand; our ability to optimize, operate, manage and expand our network infrastructure and our fulfillment center and delivery channels; the growth of the market for premium lifestyle and luxury products, and the online market for premium lifestyle and luxury products in particular; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and our results of operations; seasonal sales fluctuations; and our ability to expand our product offerings, including our owned brands. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements are set forth in this report, including under the headings Risk Factors, Managements Discussion and Analysis of 18 Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date hereof, and forward-looking statements in documents that are incorporated by reference speak only as of the date of those documents. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted a thorough inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Furthermore, if our forward-looking statements prove to be inaccurate, the inaccuracy may be material. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or any other person that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In this report, we, our, us, Company and Revolve refer to Revolve Group, Inc., and where appropriate its subsidiaries. Overview REVOLVE is the next-generation fashion retailer for Millennial and Generation Z consumers. As a trusted premium lifestyle brand and a go-to online source for discovery and inspiration, we deliver an engaging customer experience from a vast, yet curated, offering of apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty styles. Our dynamic platform connects a deeply engaged community of millions of consumers, thousands of global fashion influencers, and more than 1,000 emerging, established and owned brands. Through nearly 20 years of continued investment in technology, data analytics, and innovative marketing and merchandising strategies, we have built a powerful platform and brand that we believe is connecting with the next generation of consumers and is redefining fashion retail for the 21st century. We sell merchandise through two complementary segments, REVOLVE and FWRD, that leverage one platform. Through REVOLVE, we offer an assortment of premium apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty products from emerging, established and owned brands. Through FWRD, we offer an assortment of curated and elevated iconic and emerging luxury brands. REVOLVE has historically been focused on the discovery of trend-driven, ready-to-wear styles, while FWRD has been more heavily weighted toward the statement pieces in her wardrobe such as shoes and handbags. We believe that FWRD provides our customer with a unique destination for luxury products as her spending power increases and her desire for fashion and inspiration remains central to her self-expression. We believe our product mix reflects the desires of the next-generation consumer and we optimize this mix through the identification and incubation of emerging brands and continued development of our owned brand portfolio. The focus on emerging and owned brands minimizes our assortment overlap with other retailers, supporting marketing efficiency, conversion and sales at full price. We have invested in our robust and scalable internally-developed technology platform to meet the specific needs of our business and to support our customers experience. We use proprietary algorithms and nearly 20 years of data to efficiently manage our merchandising, marketing, product development, sourcing and pricing decisions. Our platform works seamlessly across devices and analyzes browsing and purchasing patterns and preferences to help us make purchasing decisions, which when combined with the small initial orders for new products, allows us to manage inventory and fashion risk. We have also invested in our creative capabilities to produce high-quality visual merchandising that caters to our customers by focusing on style with a distinct point of view rather than on individual products. The combination of our online sales platform and our in-house creative photography allows us to showcase brands in a distinctive and compelling manner. We are pioneers of social media and influencer marketing, using social channels and cultural events designed to deliver authentic and aspirational, yet attainable, experiences to attract and retain Millennial and Generation Z consumers, and these efforts have historically led to higher earned media value than competitors. We complement our 19 social media efforts through a variety of brand marketing campaigns and events, which generate a constant flow of authentic content. Our social media and brand marketing strategy is combined with robust and sophisticated digital performance marketing activities. Once we have attracted potential new customers to our sites, our goal is to convert them into active customers and then encourage repeat purchases. We acquire and retain customers through paid search/product listing ads, paid social, retargeting, affiliate marketing, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. We have developed an efficient logistics infrastructure, which allows us to provide free shipping and returns to our customers in the United States. We support our logistics network with proprietary algorithms to optimize inventory allocation, reduce shipping and fulfillment expenses and deliver merchandise quickly and efficiently to our customers. To date, we have primarily focused on expanding our U.S. business and have grown internationally with limited investment and no physical presence. We began offering a more localized shopping experience, including free returns and all-inclusive pricing, beginning in 2018, for customers in the United Kingdom, or the UK, the European Union, or the EU, and Australia, and further expanded to New Zealand, Singapore and Canada in 2020, Poland, Spain, Switzerland and the UAE in 2021, and Saudi Arabia in 2022. We are gradually increasing our level of investment in international expansion by continuing to focus on Europe, Australia and Canada as well as Asia Pacific and the Middle East. We will continue to invest in and develop international markets while maintaining our focus on the core U.S. market. Impact of COVID-19 There continues to be uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business operations and operating results. While demand for our products improved, the extent of this increased demand in the future remains uncertain. A resurgence of the pandemic may result in business restrictions and social distancing mandates, the cancellation of large, in-person brand marketing events, supply chain disruptions, changes in consumer behavior and an increase in the cost of goods sold. The majority of our facilities and employees are based in Los Angeles County where the government has in the past imposed, and may in the future impose restrictions designed to slow the spread of COVID-19. To further prevent the spread of COVID-19, we offer guidance and incentives to our employees to promote vaccine uptake. Government restrictions on travel and social distancing caused the postponement or cancellation of several REVOLVE brand marketing events including the #REVOLVEfestival in 2020 and 2021, as well as other social activities that drove demand for many of our products. As restrictions eased , we have been able to host in-person events with reduced attendance capacity and in April 2022 we once again hosted the #REVOLVEfestival after a two-year hiatus. Varying levels of restriction remain within the United States and in certain of our key markets around the world and it is unclear how these restrictions will evolve or if the COVID-19 pandemic will spur long-term changes in consumer behavior. While trends further improved during the first quarter of 2022, we cannot reasonably estimate the extent to which our business will continue to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and to what extent the recent improved trends will continue. 20 Key Operating and Financial Metrics We use the following metrics to assess the progress of our business, make decisions on where to allocate capital, time and technology investments, and assess the near-term and longer-term performance of our business. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands, except average order value and percentages) Gross margin 54.5 % 54.0 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 31,543 $ 23,340 Free cash flow $ 52,727 $ 32,473 Active customers 2,041 1,477 Total orders placed 2,156 1,282 Average order value $ 288 $ 256 Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures. See the sections titled Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow below for information regarding our use of Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow and their reconciliation to net income and net cash provided by operating activities, respectively. Gross Margin Gross profit is equal to our net sales less cost of sales. Gross profit as a percentage of our net sales is referred to as gross margin. Cost of sales consists of our purchase price of merchandise sold to customers and includes import duties and other taxes, inbound freight costs, receiving costs, defective merchandise returned from customers, inventory write-offs, and other miscellaneous shrinkage. Gross margin is impacted by the mix of brands and categories of styles that we sell on our sites. Gross margin on sales of owned brands is typically higher than that for third-party brands. Gross margin is also affected by the percentage of sales through the REVOLVE segment, which consists primarily of emerging third-party, established third-party and owned brands, compared to our FWRD segment, which consists primarily of established third-party brands. One of our long-term strategies has been to increase the percentage of net sales from owned brands given the attractive margin profile associated with them. Merchandise mix will vary from period to period and if we do not effectively manage our owned brands and accurately forecast demand, our growth, margins and inventory levels may be adversely affected. We review our inventory levels on an ongoing basis to identify slow-moving merchandise and use product markdowns to efficiently sell these products. We monitor the percentage of sales that occur at full price, which we believe reflects customer acceptance of our merchandise and the sense of urgency we create through frequent product introductions in limited quantities. Gross margin is impacted by the mix of sales at full price and markdowns, as well as the level of markdowns. The COVID-19 pandemic impacted gross margins in several ways. Product mix initially shifted away from certain categories with higher margins, such as dresses, to other categories with lower margins, such as beauty. However, this temporary product mix shift began to reverse late in the first quarter of 2021 with growth in the dresses category rebounding strongly. During the first quarter of 2022, the product mix shift continued to reverse with growth in the dresses category significantly outpacing growth within other categories. We also shifted more of our inventory purchases in 2020 to third-party brands where we can make shallower initial inventory commitments across a broader range of styles. We began reinvesting in our owned brand platform in late 2020 and throughout 2021, which has resulted in year-over-year improvement in the mix of owned brand sales beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021 and continuing into the first quarter of 2022. We will continue to invest in the owned brand platform and expect a further increase in the mix of owned brand sales in 2022. Certain of our competitors and other retailers report cost of sales differently than we do. As a result, the reporting of our gross profit and gross margin may not be comparable to other companies. 21 Adjusted EBITDA To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed in the table above and elsewhere in this report Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income before other (income) expense, net, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted to exclude the effects of equity-based compensation expense, and certain non-routine items. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We have included Adjusted EBITDA in this report because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating Adjusted EBITDA facilitates operating performance comparisons on a period-to-period basis and, in the case of exclusion of the impact of equity-based compensation, excludes an item that we do not consider to be indicative of our core operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; Adjusted EBITDA does not consider the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain non-routine items that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income and our other GAAP results. A reconciliation of non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net income $ 22,568 $ 22,252 Excluding: Other (income) expense, net (516 ) 233 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 6,398 (1,270 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,102 1,149 Equity-based compensation 1,491 976 Non-routine items (1) 500 Adjusted EBITDA $ 31,543 $ 23,340 (1) Non-routine items in the three months ended March 31, 2022 relate to a self-insured retention payable under our insurance policy. Free Cash Flow To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have also disclosed in the table above and elsewhere in this report free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used in purchases of property and equipment. We have provided below a 22 reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We have included free cash flow in this report because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors, which we believe is an important indicator of our liquidity because it measures the amount of cash we generate. Free cash flow also reflects changes in working capital. Accordingly, we believe that free cash flow provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including that other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate free cash flow differently. Because of these limitations, you should consider free cash flow alongside other financial performance measures, including net cash provided by operating activities, purchases of property and equipment and our other GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash provided by financing activities, for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 53,797 $ 33,209 Purchases of property and equipment (1,070 ) (736 ) Free cash flow $ 52,727 $ 32,473 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,070 ) $ (736 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 126 $ 4,317 Active Customers We define an active customer as a unique customer account from which a purchase was made across our platform at least once in the preceding 12-month period. We calculate the number of active customers on a trailing 12-month basis given the volatility that can be observed when calculating it on the basis of shorter periods that may not be reflective of longer-term trends; however, such a methodology may not be indicative of other short-term trends, such as changes in new customers. In any particular period, we determine our number of active customers by counting the total number of customers who have made at least one purchase in the preceding 12-month period, measured from the last date of such period. We view the number of active customers as a key indicator of our growth, the reach of our sites, the value proposition and consumer awareness of our brand, the continued use of our sites by our customers and their desire to purchase our products. We believe the number of active customers is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our growth, brand awareness and market opportunity. Our number of active customers drives both net sales and our appeal to vendors. Active customers increased during the period ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the period ended March 31, 2021 due to in part to our ability to engage with our existing customers and acquire new customers through our sales and marketing efforts, and in part due to the easing of stay-at-home orders and other restrictions in the United States and other key regions round the world. Total Orders Placed We define total orders placed as the total number of customer orders placed by our customers across our platform in any period. We view total orders placed as a key indicator of the velocity of our business and an indication of the desirability of our products and sites to our customers. Total orders placed, together with average order value, is an indicator of the net sales we expect to recognize in a given period. We believe that total orders placed is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends. Total orders placed and total orders shipped in any given period may differ slightly due to orders that are in process at the end of any particular period. 23 Total orders placed increased in the three months ended March 31, 2022 relative to the same period in 2021 due to in part to our ability to engage with our existing customers and acquire new customers through our sales and marketing efforts, and in part due to the easing of stay-at-home orders and other restrictions in the United States and other key regions round the world. Average Order Value We define average order value as the total gross sales from our sites in a given period, prior to product returns, divided by the total orders placed in that period. We believe our high average order value demonstrates the premium nature of our product. We believe that average order value is a measure that is useful to investors and management in understanding our ongoing operations and in analysis of ongoing operating trends. Average order value varies depending on the site through which we sell merchandise, the mix of product categories sold, the number of units in each order, the percentage of sales at full price, and for sales at less than full price, the level of markdowns. Average order value increased in the three months ended March 31, 2022 relative to the same period in 2021, primarily due to a higher percentage of full price sales, a shift in mix back to higher price point merchandise including a higher mix in sales within the FWRD segment, partially offset by a decline in average units per order. Factors Affecting Our Performance Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business The COVID-19 pandemic had a material adverse impact on our business operations and operating results for 2020 due to business restrictions and social distancing measures imposed in the United States and other countries, and the severe negative impact on macroeconomic conditions and consumer discretionary spending. As states began rolling back business restrictions and stay-at-home orders, our operating results improved. However, there continues to be uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business operations and operating results. Our business operations and results of operations may continue to be adversely affected and recent favorable trends may not continue, including as a result of: varying levels of restrictions within the United States as well as certain key regions around the world; increases in COVID-19 cases as a result of COVID-19 variants; an increase in the cost of materials and disruption to the supply chain caused by distribution and other logistical issues, including labor shortages as well as potential bankruptcies impacting our suppliers or manufacturing partners; decreased productivity due to work-from-home policies, travel bans or shelter-in-place orders; and a slowdown in the global economy, an uncertain global economic outlook or a credit crisis. Overall Economic Trends The overall economic environment and related changes in consumer behavior have a significant impact on our business. In general, positive conditions in the broader economy promote customer spending on our sites, while economic weakness, which generally results in a reduction of customer spending, may have a more pronounced negative effect on spending on our sites. Macroeconomic factors that can affect customer spending patterns, and thereby our results of operations, include employment rates, business conditions, changes in the housing market, the availability of credit, U.S. government stimulus payments, interest rates and fuel, energy and raw material costs. In addition, during periods of low unemployment, we generally experience higher labor costs. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have a materially adverse impact on the macroeconomic environment in the United States and substantially all of our target markets. 24 Customer Acquisition and Retention and Growth in Brand Awareness Our focus since inception has been on profitable growth, which has created our disciplined approach to acquiring new customers and retaining existing customers at a reasonable cost, relative to the contributions we expect from such customers. Failure to attract new visitors to our sites and convert them to customers would impact future net sales growth. Social media and influencer-based marketing continued to gain popularity and the market for these channels became increasingly competitive. Despite the changing external environment and competitive landscape, we believe we were able to maintain the effectiveness and efficiency of these channels, although competition from others that have adopted similar practices make it increasingly difficult to differentiate ourselves. With the travel restrictions and social distancing measures imposed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, we were unable to engage with our customers through larger in-person activations such as #REVOLVEfestival, which has a negative impact on our ability to drive traffic to our sites, acquire new customers and retain our existing customers. As restrictions eased , we have been able to host in-person events with reduced attendance capacity and in April 2022 we once again hosted the #REVOLVEfestival after a two-year hiatus. We plan to continue to conduct in person events at varying levels of scale in the future. If our marketing efforts do not connect with our customer or fail to cost-effectively promote our brand or convert impressions into new customers, our net sales growth and profitability will be adversely affected. Competition for social media and influencer-based marketing channels continues to increase, especially as broad-based consumer demand began to increase in early 2021, which has increased our cost to acquire and retain customers and may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, Apple Inc. has imposed requirements for consumer disclosures regarding privacy practices, and has implemented an application tracking transparency framework that requires opt-in consent for certain types of tracking. This transparency framework was launched in April 2021 and has made it more difficult and costly to acquire and retain customers, which may adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, in February 2022, Google announced it planned to adopt similar restrictions to restrict tracking activity across Android devices. To maximize our opportunity to capture consumer demand as economies reopen, during 2021 and during the first quarter of 2022 we increased our marketing investment and we intend to continue to make opportunistic investments in marketing initiatives that could increase marketing as a percentage of net sales to levels in excess of historical levels for certain quarters or periods of time in the future. This incremental investment may not deliver a meaningful return in the short term and may adversely impact our operating income in the short term. Our success is impacted not only by efficient and profitable customer acquisition and growth in brand awareness, but also by our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases. Existing customers, whom we define as customers in a year who have purchased from us in any prior year, account for a greater share of active customers over time. Merchandise Mix We offer merchandise across a variety of product types, brands and price points. The brands we sell on our platform consist of a mix of emerging third-party, established third-party, iconic luxury and owned brands. Our product mix consists primarily of apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty products. Our merchandise mix across our two reporting segments and across our owned brand and third-party products carry a range of margin profiles and may cause fluctuations in our gross margin. For example, our owned brands have generally contributed higher gross margin as compared to third-party brands. We will continue to seek to increase the percentage of net sales from owned brands in an effort to increase our gross margin over time. Shifts in our owned brand mix and our broader category merchandise mix may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. Inventory Management We leverage our platform and technology to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. We utilize a data-driven read and react buying process to merchandise and curate the latest on-trend fashion. We generally make shallow initial inventory buys and then use our proprietary technology tools to identify and re-order best sellers, taking into account customer feedback across a variety of key metrics, which allows us to manage inventory and fashion risk. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we 25 generally purchase inventory in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In the normal course of business, we incur inventory write-offs, which impacts our gross margin. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, entering new categories will require additional investments in inventory. Shifts in inventory levels may result in fluctuations in the percentage of full price sales, levels of markdowns, merchandise mix, as well as gross margin. In addition, our sales demand had initially been adversely impacted as a result of COVID-19. In response, in 2020, we significantly reduced inventory receipts by canceling or delaying orders. As our sales demand improved in 2021 and remained strong in the first quarter of 2022, we significantly increased our investment in inventory to support this demand. Our response may continue to impact the pace of growth in net sales in the near term as we may not have sufficient levels of inventory to meet customer demand in certain categories. Conversely, if demand does not support our inventory commitments, we may carry excess inventory leading to higher markdowns, adversely impacting gross margins. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure We have made investments over time to grow our customer base, enhance our offerings and deliver best in class service to our customers. Over the long term, we expect to continue to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment center, and logistics infrastructure as we grow our customer base, launch new brands, expand internationally and drive operating efficiencies. We believe these investments will yield positive returns in the long term; however, we cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our customer base or be cost-effective. Segment and Geographic Performance Our financial results are affected by the performance across our two reporting segments, REVOLVE and FWRD, as well as across the various geographies in which we serve our customers. The REVOLVE segment contributes to a majority of our net sales, representing 83.9% and 85.0% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, REVOLVE generated $237.7 million and $152.2 million in net sales, respectively, representing an increase of 56.2%. The net sales increase in the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to an increase in the number of orders placed by customers complemented by an increase in average order value. The FWRD segment contributes to a smaller, although expanding, portion of our overall net sales, representing 16.1% and 15.0% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, FWRD generated $45.8 million and $26.7 million in net sales, respectively, representing an increase of 71.1%. The net sales increase in the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to an increase in the number of orders placed by customers complemented by an increase in average order value. Net sales to customers outside of the United States contributed to 16.1% and 19.9% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, net sales to customers outside of the United States were $45.6 million and $35.6 million, respectively, representing an increase of 28.1%. Despite our strong operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2022, consumer confidence, shopping behavior and spending are impacted by various macro factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain challenges, the war in Ukraine, inflation and labor shortages, which may adversely impact net sales and our gross margin in the near-term and the long-term impact remains unpredictable. In addition, net sales to customers outside of the United States are also impacted by various factors including import and export taxes, currency fluctuations and other macroeconomic conditions described in Overall Economic Trends above. Increases in taxes and negative movements in certain currencies have also had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial results. 26 Seasonality Seasonality in our business does not follow that of traditional retailers, such as typical concentration of net sales in the holiday quarter. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our historical seasonality and has resulted in the postponement or cancellation of several REVOLVE brand marketing events including #REVOLVEfestival in 2020 and 2021, which historically contributed to peak sales during the second quarter of each fiscal year. As restrictions eased , we have been able to host in-person events with reduced attendance capacity and in April 2022 we once again hosted the #REVOLVEfestival. The seasonality for 2022 remains unknown, but with the exception of the COVID-19 pandemic and other unpredictable events, we expect our historical seasonality to revert to historical trends in future years. Our operating income has also been affected by these historical trends because many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If our growth rates begin to moderate, in the long-term, the impact of these seasonality trends on our results of operations may become more pronounced. Components of Our Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales consist primarily of sales of womens apparel, footwear, accessories and beauty products. We recognize product sales at the time control is transferred to the customer, which is when the product is shipped. Net sales represent the sales of these items and shipping revenue when applicable, net of estimated returns and promotional discounts. Net sales are primarily driven by growth in the number of our customers, the frequency with which customers purchase and average order value. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of our purchase price for merchandise sold to customers and includes import duties, net of drawback claims, and other taxes, inbound freight costs, receiving costs, defective merchandise returned from customers, inventory write-offs, and other miscellaneous shrinkage. Cost of sales is primarily driven by the cost of the product, the number of total orders placed by customers, the mix of the product available for sale on our sites and transportation costs related to inventory receipts from our vendors. We expect our cost of sales to fluctuate as a percentage of net sales primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. We have recently experienced and may continue to experience an increase in the cost of goods due to an increase in the cost of materials as well as an increase in the cost of freight on inbound shipments due to various supply chain challenges across the industry and world. Fulfillment Expenses Fulfillment expenses represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing the fulfillment center, including costs attributed to inspecting and warehousing inventories and picking, packaging and preparing customer orders for shipment. Fulfillment expenses also include the cost of warehousing facilities. Over the long term, we expect fulfillment expenses to decrease as a percentage of net sales, but we expect fulfillment expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of net sales in the short-term reflecting pressure from increased costs such as wages and an expected year-over-year increase in our return rate in 2022 due to product mix and other input cost pressures, to be at least partially offset by operating efficiencies from increased scale as well as automation of the fulfillment center workflow. Selling and Distribution Expenses Selling and distribution expenses consist primarily of shipping and other transportation costs incurred delivering merchandise to customers and from customers returning merchandise, merchant processing fees, and customer service. Over the long term, we expect selling and distribution costs to remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net sales, but we expect selling and distribution expenses to increase year-over-year as a percentage of net sales in the short term reflecting pressure from an expected year-over-year increase in our return rate due to product mix and our customers propensity to return merchandise as well as increases in shipping costs, particularly fuel surcharges. 27 Marketing Expenses Marketing expenses consist primarily of targeted online performance marketing costs, such as paid search/product listing ads, paid social, retargeting, affiliate marketing, search engine optimization, personalized email marketing and mobile push communications through our mobile applications. Marketing expenses also include investment in brand marketing channels, including events, payments to influencers and other forms of online and offline marketing. Marketing expenses are primarily related to growing and retaining our customer base, building the REVOLVE and FWRD brands and expanding our owned brand presence. As a result of the impact on consumer discretionary spending and the required social distancing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we reduced our marketing investment in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales in 2020. In 2021 and the first quarter of 2022, we increased our level of investment in marketing to maximize our opportunities to capture consumer demand as economies reopened. Over the long term, we expect marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to scale our business, but remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net sales. We may make opportunistic investments in marketing initiatives that may increase marketing as a percentage of net sales to levels in excess of historical levels for certain quarters or periods of time in the future. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll and related benefit costs and equity-based compensation expense for our employees involved in general corporate functions including merchandising, marketing, owned brands, studio and technology, as well as costs associated with the use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation, rent and other occupancy expenses. In 2021, we reinvested significantly to expand our team to support our strong growth. General and administrative expenses are expected to increase in the near term as we plan to continue to invest in our team to support future growth. Over the long-term, we expect general and administrative expenses to continue to increase moderately in absolute dollars to support business growth and meet our obligations as a public company with general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue declining over the long-term as we scale out business and leverage our investments in this area. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and other fees associated with our line of credit and interest income on our money market funds. Results of Operations The tables below set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and express the relationship of certain line items as a percentage of net sales for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net sales $ 283,498 $ 178,907 Cost of sales 129,087 82,242 Gross profit 154,411 96,665 Operating expenses: Fulfillment expenses 7,290 4,367 Selling and distribution expenses 46,586 24,977 Marketing expenses 45,250 26,228 General and administrative expenses 26,835 19,878 Total operating expenses 125,961 75,450 Income from operations 28,450 21,215 Other (income) expense, net (516 ) 233 Income before income taxes 28,966 20,982 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 6,398 (1,270 ) Net income $ 22,568 $ 22,252 28 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 45.5 % 46.0 % Gross profit 54.5 % 54.0 % Operating expenses: Fulfillment expenses 2.6 % 2.4 % Selling and distribution expenses 16.4 % 14.0 % Marketing expenses 16.0 % 14.7 % General and administrative expenses 9.5 % 11.1 % Total operating expenses 44.5 % 42.2 % Income from operations 10.0 % 11.8 % Other (income) expense, net (0.2 %) 0.1 % Income before income taxes 10.2 % 11.7 % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2.3 % (0.7 %) Net income 7.9 % 12.4 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Net Sales Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net sales $ 283,498 $ 178,907 $ 104,591 58.5 % The increase in net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to an increase in the number of orders placed by customers of 68.2% and increase in average order value of 12.5% as compared to the same period in 2021, partially offset by a higher proportion of returned purchases. Net sales in the REVOLVE segment increased 56.2% to $237.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to net sales of $152.2 million in the same period in 2021. Net sales generated from our FWRD segment increased 71.1% to $45.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to net sales of $26.7 million in the same period in 2021. Cost of Sales Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of sales $ 129,087 $ 82,242 $ 46,845 57.0 % Percentage of net sales 45.5 % 46.0 % The increase in cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to an increase in the volume of merchandise sold. The decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was due to a higher percentage of full price sales combined with a shift in category mix of merchandise sales and a higher mix of owned brand sales, partially offset by higher inventory write-offs as compared to the same period in 2021. Owned brand sales generally carry higher gross margins than that of third-party brand sales. 29 Fulfillment Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Fulfillment expenses $ 7,290 $ 4,367 $ 2,923 66.9 % Percentage of net sales 2.6 % 2.4 % Fulfillment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were higher as compared to the same period in 2021 due to an increase in the number of units processed. The increase in fulfillment expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to customers returning a higher proportion of their purchases and higher wages for fulfillment staff. Selling and Distribution Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Selling and distribution expenses $ 46,586 $ 24,977 $ 21,609 86.5 % Percentage of net sales 16.4 % 14.0 % The increase in selling and distribution expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to an increase in the number of orders shipped. Shipping and handling costs increased $14.4 million, merchant processing fees increased $3.8 million, other selling expenses increased $2.3 million and customer service costs increased $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in selling and distribution expenses as a percentage of net sales was due to customers returning a higher proportion of their purchases as compared to the comparative period in the prior year combined with increased average shipping and handling fees per package through increases in carrier rates and fuel surcharges. Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Marketing expenses $ 45,250 $ 26,228 $ 19,022 72.5 % Percentage of net sales 16.0 % 14.7 % The increase in marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was due to an increase in marketing investments to acquire customers and retain existing customers to drive higher net sales. The increase was due to an increase in performance marketing expenses of $13.5 million as well as an increase of $5.5 million in brand marketing events. The higher investment in 2022 is reflective of the increasing cost to acquire new customers and retain existing customers as well as investments made in brand marketing initiatives including The Homecoming Weekend events that took place in the first quarter during Super Bowl weekend and the opening of the Revolve Social Club in March 2022. General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expenses $ 26,835 $ 19,878 $ 6,957 35.0 % Percentage of net sales 9.5 % 11.1 % 30 The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was due to a $4.2 million increase in salaries and related benefits and equity-based compensation expense related to increases in our headcount, a $1.5 million increase in other operating expenses to support business growth, and a $1.3 million increase related to professional services and other occupancy costs. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily driven by growth in net sales significantly outpacing growth in general and administrative expenses. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Income before income taxes $ 28,966 $ 20,982 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 6,398 (1,270 ) Effective tax rate 22.1 % (6.1 %) The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to a decrease in excess tax benefits related to the exercise of non-qualified stock options. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table shows our cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and working capital as of the dates indicated: As of March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 270,607 $ 218,455 Accounts receivable, net 11,386 4,639 Working capital (1) 302,660 279,620 (1) Working capital for all periods presented above is defined as current assets less current liabilities. As of March 31, 2022, the majority of our cash and cash equivalents was held for working capital purposes. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, our liquidity assumptions may prove to be incorrect and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. Sources of Liquidity Since our inception, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through cash flows generated by operations, private sales of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the net proceeds we received through our IPO, as well as proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. Line of Credit On March 23, 2021, we amended and restated our existing credit agreement to, among other things, extend the expiration date from March 23, 2021 to March 23, 2026. The line of credit provides us with up to $75.0 million aggregate principal in revolver borrowings, based on eligible inventory and accounts receivable less reserves. Borrowings under the credit agreement accrue interest, at our option, at (1) a base rate equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds rate, plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate and (c) an adjusted LIBO rate determined on the basis of a one-month interest period, plus 1.00%, or (2) an adjusted LIBO rate, subject to a floor of 0.00%, in each case, plus a margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75% per year in the case of base rate loans, and 1.25% to 1.75% per year in the case of LIBO rate loans. No borrowings were outstanding as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Our obligations under the credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. The credit agreement also contains customary covenants restricting our activities, including limitations on our ability to sell assets, engage 31 in mergers and acquisitions, enter into transactions involving related parties, obtain letters of credit, incur indebtedness or grant liens or negative pledges on our assets, make loans or make other investments. Under these covenants, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends with respect to our capital stock. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Uses of Cash Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from operating costs such as merchandise purchases, compensation and benefits, lease obligations, marketing and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. We used a substantial portion of the proceeds from the IPO to repurchase shares of our Class B common stock. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations as well as the available borrowing capacity under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, our liquidity assumptions may prove to be incorrect, and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. We may seek to borrow funds under our line of credit or raise additional funds at any time through equity, equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the "Risk Factors" section of this report. We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our operating requirements on acceptable terms or at all. Historical Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 53,797 $ 33,209 Net cash used in investing activities (1,070 ) (736 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 126 4,317 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash from operating activities consists primarily of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation, equity-based compensation, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we generated $53.8 million of operating cash flow as compared to $33.2 million for the same period in 2021. The increase in our operating cash flow was primarily due to positive impact from changes in working capital. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Our primary investing activities have consisted of purchases of property and equipment to support our fulfillment centers and our overall business growth and internally developed software for the continued development of our proprietary technology infrastructure. Purchases of property and equipment may vary from period-to-period due to timing of the expansion of our operations. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.1 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Our financing activities primarily consist of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and borrowings and repayments related to the existing line of credit, when applicable. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.1 million and $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and was attributable to the cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 32 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 we did not have any material off balance sheet arrangements, except for operating leases that had not commenced as of such dates. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2022, our principal obligations consist of obligations under operating leases for office and fulfillment facilities. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments as compared to the contractual obligations disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We continue to monitor the impact of inflation in order to minimize its effects through pricing strategies, productivity improvements and cost reductions. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. Emerging Growth Company Status As of December 31, 2021, we are no longer an emerging growth company due to our becoming a "large accelerated filer" as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, which required us to significantly accelerate our compliance efforts to, for example, engage our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls as required by Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies , to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 33 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitat ive Disclosures about Market Risk We have operations both within the United States and internationally, and we are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business, including the effects of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about these market risks is set forth below. Interest Rate Sensitivity Cash and cash equivalents are held primarily in money market funds and cash deposits. The fair value of our cash and cash equivalents would not be significantly affected by either an increase or decrease in interest rates due mainly to the short-term nature of these instruments. Interest on our line of credit borrowings incurred pursuant to the credit agreement described above accrue at a floating rate based on a formula tied to certain market rates at the time of incurrence; however, we do not expect that any change in prevailing interest rates will have a material impact on our results of operations. Foreign Currency Risk Most of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, our net sales are not currently subject to significant foreign currency risk. Our operating expenses are denominated in the currencies of the countries and territories in which our operations are located and may be subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the British Pound. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may cause us to recognize transaction gains and losses in our consolidated statements of income. To date, foreign currency transaction gains and losses have not been material to our consolidated financial statements and we have not engaged in any foreign currency hedging transactions. 34