Item 2.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, Supernova Partners Acquisition Company II, Ltd., Supernova Partners, our, us or we refer to Supernova Partners Acquisition Company II, Ltd. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on December 22 , 2020. We were formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). We are an emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with emerging growth companies. Our sponsor is Supernova Partners II LLC, a Cayman Islands exempted company (the Sponsor). The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on March 1, 2021. On March 4, 2021, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 34,500,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares), which includes 4,500,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments (the Over-Allotment Units), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $19.5 million, of which approximately $12.1 million was for deferred underwriting commissions (Note 5). Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 4,450,000 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants), at a price of $2.00 per Private Placement Warrant with the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $8.9 million (Note 4). Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, $345.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and certain of the proceeds of the Private Placement were placed in a trust account (Trust Account), located in the United States at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., with American Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the Company meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3) and (d)(4) of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. We must complete one or more initial Business Combinations 19 having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the assets held in the Trust Account (excluding the amount of any deferred underwriting discount held in trust) at the time of the signing of the agreement to enter into the initial Business Combination. However, we will only complete a Business Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or March 4, 2023 (the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account (less taxes payable and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any) and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and the board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and in all cases subject to the other requirements of applicable law. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions with respect to the warrants, which will expire worthless if we fail to complete its initial Business Combination within the Combination Period. Liquidity As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $1.2 million in our operating bank account, and working capital of approximately $0.8 million. The Company has incurred and expects to incur significant costs in pursuit of its financing and acquisition plans. Management has determined that the Company has access to funds from the Sponsor that are sufficient to fund the working capital needs of the Company until the consummation of an initial Business Combination or for a minimum of one year from the date of issuance of these unaudited condensed financial statements. However, in connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Update 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, management has determined that the Companys cash flow deficit raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. There is no assurance that the Companys plans to consummate a Business Combination or raise additional funds will be successful within the Combination Period. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of the uncertainty. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception up to June 30, 2021 was in preparation for our formation and the Initial Public Offering. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $2.4 million, which consisted of approximately $490,000 general and administrative expenses and $2.0 million loss from change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities, partially offset by approximately $5,000 gain on marketable securities, dividends and interest held in Trust Account. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $3.6 million, which consisted of approximately $625,000 general and administrative expenses, $2.5 million in loss from change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities, approximately $502,000 loss from offering costs associated with derivative warrant liabilities, partially offset by approximately $7,000 gain on marketable securities, dividends and interest held in Trust Account. 20 Contractual Obligations Registration and Shareholder Rights The holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement signed upon consummation of the Initial Public Offering. These holders were entitled to certain demand and piggyback registration rights. However, the registration and shareholder rights agreement provided that we would not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until the termination of the applicable lock-up period for the securities to be registered. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the final prospectus relating to the Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 4,500,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. On March 4, 2021, the underwriter fully exercised its over-allotment option. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per unit, or $6.9 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, $0.35 per unit, or approximately $12.1 million in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of its financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 480 and ASC 815-15. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering (the Public Warrants) and the Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period until exercised. The fair value of the Public Warrants issued in connection with the Public Offering and Private Placement Warrants were initially measured at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Subsequent to the separate listing and trading of the Public Warrants the fair value of the Public Warrants has been measured based on the observable listed prices for such warrants and the fair value of the Private Warrants are measured using a Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model. Derivative warrant liabilities are classified as non-current as their liquidation is not reasonably expected to require the use of current assets or require the creation of current liabilities. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for its Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, 31,308,856 and 0 Class A ordinary 21 shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheet s . Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Net income (loss) per ordinary share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of shares of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and private placement to purchase an aggregate of 13,075,000 shares in the calculation of diluted income (loss) per share, since the exercise price of the warrants is in excess of the average ordinary share price for the period and therefore the inclusion of such warrants would be anti-dilutive. Our unaudited consolidated condensed statement of operations includes a presentation of income (loss) per ordinary share for Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per ordinary share. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income or loss on marketable securities held by the Trust Account, net of any taxes, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for non-redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), adjusted for income or loss on marketable securities attributable to ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of non-redeemable ordinary outstanding for the period. Non-redeemable ordinary shares include Founder Shares and non-redeemable Class A ordinary shares as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non-redeemable ordinary shares participate in the income or loss on marketable securities based on non-redeemable shares proportionate interest. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Companys management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards updates, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the accompanying unaudited condensed financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 22 Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitati ve Disclosures About Market Risk We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and are not required to provide the information otherwise required under this item. As of June 30, 2021, we were not subject to any market or interest rate risk. The net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, including amounts in the Trust Account, will be invested in U.S. government securities with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds that meet certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, that invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations. Due to the short-term nature of these investments, we believe there will be no associated material exposure to interest rate risk. We have not engaged in any hedging activities since our inception and we do not expect to engage in any hedging activities with respect to the market risk to which we are exposed.