Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have incurred and expect to incur costs related to, among other things, the reduction in workforce that we announced in February 2023 and our recent management transitions, in addition to expenses relating to the remediation of our material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting. The actual amounts we may be required to spend on these and other matters may be greater and more significant than our expectations. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plan, and expectations and assumptions considering current macroeconomic conditions. Based on our estimates and current business plan, we expect that we will need to obtain additional capital by late 2024 or early 2025 in order to continue our research and development efforts and achieve our business objectives. Our operating plan may change because of factors currently unknown, and we may need to seek additional funds sooner than planned, through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources, such as strategic collaborations or other transactions. In addition, we may seek additional capital even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for current or future operating plans. Such financings may result in dilution to stockholders, issuance of securities with priority as to liquidation and dividend and other rights more favorable than common stock, imposition of debt covenants and repayment obligations or other restrictions that may adversely affect our business. Any funds we raise may not be sufficient to enable us to continue to implement our long-term business strategy. Further, our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely impacted by worsening global economic conditions and the recent disruptions to and volatility in the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide resulting from, the continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, recent and potential future disruptions in access to bank deposits or lending commitments due to bank failures and military conflict with Russia and Ukraine and the related sanctions imposed against Russia. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could result in a variety of risks to our business, including weakened demand for 27 Table of Contents our products and services and our ability to raise additional capital when needed on acceptable terms, if at all. If the equity and credit markets continue to deteriorate, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could impair our ability to achieve our growth strategy, could harm our financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon our business plans. We cannot anticipate all of the ways in which the current economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact our business. There can be no assurance that financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain financing when needed may make it more difficult for us to operate our business or implement our growth plans and we may be required to delay, limit or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities could be significantly impacted by the resale of our securities by holders of our securities which could result in a significant decline in the trading price of our securities and potentially hinder our ability to raise capital at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We are in our early stages and have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. Our business was founded in 2013 and has operated quantum computers over the cloud since 2017. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast the future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Our ability to generate revenues will largely be dependent on our ability to develop and produce quantum computers with increasing numbers of quantum bits (qubits) and with increasing levels of performance. As of the date hereof, the highest number of qubits we have externally deployed is a quantum computer with 80 qubits with 94.5% median fidelities As a result, our scalable business model has not been formed and our technology roadmap may not be realized as quickly as hoped, or even at all. We have in the past failed to meet publicly announced milestones and may fail to meet projected technological milestones in the future. In addition, we have in the past changed our technology roadmap, including anticipated milestones and timing thereof. For example, in 2018, we announced that we planned to build and deploy a 128-qubit system over the subsequent twelve months, but have not to date built a 128-qubit system. In addition, in 2022 we updated our technology roadmap, including anticipated timing for the 84Q Ankaa system, the 336Q Lyra system, 1,000+ qubit system, 4,000+ qubit system and incremental milestones relating to applications, access and production, Quantum Cloud Services (Quantum Cloud Services or QCS), quantum processing units and chip fabrication. We revised our technology roadmap in February 2023 to reflect our updated business strategy, including our plan to first concentrate on the goal of delivering the Ankaa-1 84-qubit system, then prioritize increasing the performance of the anticipated Ankaa-1 84-qubit system by focusing efforts on improving performance with an anticipated Ankaa-2 84-qubit system, and thereafter scale to develop the anticipated Lyra 336-qubit system, and after our internal deployment of Ankaa-1 in March 2023, we further refined this plan to reflect that we plan to continue to work to improve Ankaa-1 performance before the potential external release of the system to select customers. We may further update the technology roadmap in the future, including anticipated milestones and anticipated timeline for milestones. Furthermore, we may be unable to achieve the milestones in our technology roadmap on their announced anticipated timeline or at all. The development of our scalable business model will likely require the incurrence of a substantially higher level of costs than incurred to date, while our revenues will not substantially increase unless and until more powerful, scalable, higher performing computers are produced, which requires a number of technological advancements which may not occur on the currently anticipated timetable or at all. As a result, our historical results should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Further, in future periods, our growth could slow or decline for a number of reasons, including but not limited to slowing demand for our Quantum Cloud Services (Quantum Cloud Services or QCS), increased competition, changes to technology, inability to scale up or improve performance of our technology, a decrease in the growth of the market, or our failure, for any reason, to continue to take advantage of growth opportunities. 28 Table of Contents We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. Our success as a business ultimately relies upon fundamental research and development breakthroughs in the coming years. There is no certainty these research and development milestones will be achieved as quickly as hoped, or even at all. We have a history of operating losses and expect to incur significant expenses and continuing losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $71.5 million and $41.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, respectively, and $38.2 million for the eleven months ended December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $278.7 million. We believe that we will continue to incur operating and net losses each quarter until at least the time we begin generating significant revenue from our narrow or broad quantum advantage quantum computers, which may never occur. Even with significant production, our services may never become profitable. We expect the rate at which we will incur losses to be significantly higher in future periods as we, among other things, continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the design, development and manufacturing of our quantum computers; and as we expand our research and development activities; invest in manufacturing capabilities; build up inventories of components for our quantum computers; increase our sales and marketing activities; develop our infrastructure; and increase our general and administrative functions to support our growing operations and our being a public company. We may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that these efforts may not result in revenues, which would further increase our losses. If we are unable to achieve and/or sustain profitability, or if we are unable to achieve the growth that we expect from these investments, it could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business model is unproven and may never allow us to cover our costs. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. We have recorded a charge for goodwill impairment and may in the future be required to record significant charges for impairment of other assets or investments. An adverse change in market conditions, including a sustained decline in our stock price, negative changes to the Companys position in the market, or lack of growth in demand for our products and services could be considered to be an impairment triggering event. Such changes in the future could impact valuation assumptions relating to the recoverability of assets and may result in impairment charges to our long-lived assets, other assets or investments, which would negatively impact our operating results and harm our business. There are inherent uncertainties in managements estimates, judgments and assumptions used in assessing recoverability of goodwill, intangible, and other long-lived assets. Any material changes in key assumptions, including failure to meet business plans, a deterioration in the U.S. and global financial markets, an increase in interest rates or an increase in the cost of equity financing by market participants within the industry or other unanticipated events and circumstances, may decrease our projected cash flows or increase discount rates and could potentially result in an impairment charge. From time to time, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible and other long-lived assets is determined, which might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. For example, in assessing our goodwill in connection with the preparation of the financial statements for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, we concluded indicators of impairment were present due to the current macroeconomic conditions, including continued declines in our stock price. Based upon the results of the impairment test, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $5.4 million within the consolidated statement of operations. 29 Table of Contents We may not be able to scale our business quickly enough to meet customer and market demand, which could result in lower profitability or cause us to fail to execute on our business strategies. In order to grow our business, we will need to continually evolve and scale our business and operations to meet customer and market demand. Quantum computing technology has never been sold at large-scale commercial levels. Evolving and scaling our business and operations places increased demands on our management as well as our financial and operational resources to: attract new customers and grow our customer base; maintain and increase the rates at which existing customers use our platform, sell additional products and services to our existing customers, and reduce customer churn; invest in our platform and product offerings; effectively manage organizational change; accelerate and/or refocus research and development activities; expand manufacturing and supply chain capacity; increase sales and marketing efforts; broaden customer-support and services capabilities; maintain or increase operational efficiencies; implement appropriate operational and financial systems; and establish and maintain effective financial disclosure