Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, Supernova Partners Acquisition Company II, Ltd., Supernova Partners, Supernova, our, us or we refer to Supernova Partners Acquisition Company II, Ltd. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on December 22 , 2020. We were formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). We are an emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with emerging growth companies. Our sponsor is Supernova Partners II LLC, a Cayman Islands exempted company (the Sponsor). The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on March 1, 2021. On March 4, 2021, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 34,500,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares), which includes 4,500,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments (the Over-Allotment Units), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $19.5 million, of which approximately $12.1 million was for deferred underwriting commissions (Note 5). Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 4,450,000 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants), at a price of $2.00 per Private Placement Warrant with the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $8.9 million (Note 4). Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, $345.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and certain of the proceeds of the Private Placement were placed in a trust account (Trust Account), located in the United States at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., with American Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the Company meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3) and (d)(4) of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. We must complete one or more initial Business Combinations 24 having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the assets held in the Trust Account (excluding the amount of any deferred underwriting discount held in trust) at the time of the signing of the agreement to enter into the initial Business Combination. However, we will only complete a Business Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or March 4, 2023 (the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account (less taxes payable and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any) and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and the board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and in all cases subject to the other requirements of applicable law. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions with respect to the warrants, which will expire worthless if we fail to complete its initial Business Combination within the Combination Period. Proposed Business Combination As more fully described in Note 10 to financial statements included in Part I Item 1, on October 6, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) by and among our Company, Supernova Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Supernova (First Merger Sub), Supernova Romeo Merger Sub, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Supernova (Second Merger Sub), and Rigetti Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Rigetti). In connection with the Merger Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements with certain investors (the PIPE Investors) pursuant to which the PIPE Investors have committed to purchase in a private placement 10,251,000 shares of Supernova common stock (the PIPE Shares) at a purchase price of $10.00 per share and an aggregate purchase price of $102.51 million. The purchase of the PIPE Shares is conditioned upon, among other things, the consummation of the transactions and will be consummated concurrently with the closing. The shares of Class A common stock to be issued pursuant to the PIPE Subscription Agreements have not been registered under the Securities Act and will be issued in reliance on the availability of an exemption from such registration. In addition, in connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Supernova entered into a sponsor support agreement (the Sponsor Support Agreement) with the Sponsor, Rigetti and Supernovas directors and officers. The consummation of the Transactions is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among others: (i) approval by Supernovas and Rigettis respective stockholders, (ii) the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the obtaining of any consents required under antitrust laws in the jurisdictions specified on a schedule, (iii) no law or order enjoining or prohibiting the consummation of the Transactions being in force, (iv) Supernova having at least $5,000,001 of net tangible assets as of the Closing, (v) receipt of approval for listing on the New York Stock Exchange of the shares of Supernova common stock to be issued in connection with the Transactions, (vi) completion of the Domestication, (vii) the effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4, (viii) the accuracy of the parties respective representations and warranties (subject to specified materiality thresholds) and the material performance of the parties respective covenants and other obligations, (ix) no material adverse effect on Rigetti having occurred since signing that is continuing at Closing and (x) solely as relates to Rigettis obligation to consummate the Transaction, Supernova having at least $165,000,000 of available cash at the Closing. For full details and the filed agreements, refer to the 8-K announcing the Merger Agreement filed with the SEC on October 6, 2021. 25 Management has evaluated subsequent events and transactions that occurred through the date condensed financial statements were issued. Other than disclosed above, the Company did not identify any subsequent events that would have required adjustment or disclosure in the condensed financial statements. Liquidity As of September 30, 2021, we had approximately $0.9 million in our operating bank account, and working capital of approximately $0.3 million. The Company has incurred and expects to incur significant costs in pursuit of its financing and acquisition plans. Management has determined that the Company has access to funds from the Sponsor that are sufficient to fund the working capital needs of the Company until the consummation of an initial Business Combination or for a minimum of one year from the date of issuance of these unaudited condensed financial statements. However, in connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Update 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, management has determined that the Companys cash flow deficit raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. There is no assurance that the Companys plans to consummate a Business Combination or raise additional funds will be successful within the Combination Period. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of the uncertainty. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception up to September 30, 2021, was in preparation for our formation and the Initial Public Offering. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had net income of approximately $4.7 million, which consisted of a $5.2 million gain from change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and an approximately $5,000 of income from investments held in the Trust Account partially offset by approximately $570,000 of general and administrative expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, we had we had net income of approximately $1.1 million, which consisted of a $2.7 million gain from change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and approximately $12,000 of income from investments held in the Trust Account, partially offset by approximately $1.2 million of general and administrative expenses and approximately $502,000 of offering costs associated with derivative warrant liabilities. Contractual Obligations Registration and Shareholder Rights The holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement signed upon consummation of the Initial Public Offering. These holders were entitled to certain demand and piggyback registration rights. However, the registration and shareholder rights agreement provided that we would not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until the termination of the applicable lock-up period for the securities to be registered. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the final prospectus relating to the Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 4,500,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. On March 4, 2021, the underwriter fully exercised its over-allotment option. 26 The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per unit, or $6.9 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, $0.35 per unit, or approximately $12.1 million in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of its financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 480 and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering (the Public Warrants) and the Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period until exercised. The fair value of the Public Warrants issued in connection with the Public Offering and Private Placement Warrants were initially measured at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Subsequent to the separate listing and trading of the Public Warrants the fair value of the Public Warrants has been measured based on the observable listed prices for such warrants and the fair value of the Private Warrants are measured using a Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model. Derivative warrant liabilities are classified as non-current as their liquidation is not reasonably expected to require the use of current assets or require the creation of current liabilities. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for its Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, 34,500,000 and 0 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheets. Immediately upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we recognized the accretion from initial book value to redemption amount value. The change in the carrying value of redeemable Class A ordinary shares resulted in charges against additional paid-in capital and accumulated deficit. Net Income Per Ordinary Share We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. We have two classes of shares, which are referred to as Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Income and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of shares. Net income per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the net income by the weighted average ordinary shares outstanding for the respective period. The calculation of diluted net income does not consider the effect of the warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering and the private placement warrants to purchase an aggregate of 13,075,000 shares of Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted income per share, because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. The number of weighted average Class B ordinary shares for calculating basic net income per ordinary share was reduced for the effect of an aggregate of 1,125,000 Class B ordinary shares that were subject to forfeiture if the over-allotment option was not exercised in full or part by the 27 underwriters. Since the contingency was satisfied as of September 30, 2021, we included these shares in the weighted average number as of the beginning of the period to determine the dilutive impact of these shares. Accretion associated with the redeemable Class A ordinary shares is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value . Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging-Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Companys management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards updates, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the accompanying unaudited condensed financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. 28