ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, will, continue, project, forecast, goal, should, could, would, potential, and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We build quantum computers and the superconducting quantum processors that power them. We believe quantum computing represents one of the most transformative emerging capabilities in the world today. By leveraging quantum mechanics, we believe our quantum computers process information in fundamentally new, more powerful ways than classical computers. When scaled, it is anticipated that these systems will be poised to solve problems of staggering computational complexity at unprecedented speed. With the goal of unlocking this opportunity, we have developed the worlds first multi-chip quantum processor for scalable quantum computing systems. We believe that this patented and patent pending, modular chip architecture is the building block for new generations of quantum processors that we expect to achieve a clear advantage over classical computers. Our long-term business model centers on revenue generated from sales of quantum processing units (QPUs) and quantum computing systems made accessible via the cloud in the form of Quantum Computing as a Service (QCaaS) products. However, the substantial majority of our revenues are derived from development contracts, and we anticipate this market opportunity will continue to represent an important source of revenue for at least the next several years as we work to ramp up sales of QPUs and our QCaaS business. Additionally, we are working to further develop a revenue stream and forging important customer relationships by entering into technology development contracts with various partners. We are a vertically integrated company. We own and operate Fab-1, a dedicated and integrated laboratory and manufacturing facility, through which we own the means of producing our breakthrough multi-chip quantum processor technology. We leverage our chips through a full-stack product development approach, from quantum chip design and manufacturing through cloud delivery. We believe this full-stack development approach offers both the fastest and lowest risk path to building commercially valuable quantum computers. We have been generating revenue since 2018, primarily through partnerships with government agencies and commercial organizations; however, we have not yet generated profits. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception. Our net losses were $75.1 million and $71.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and our net loss was $20.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We expect to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future as we invest in research, development, and infrastructure consistent with our long-term business strategy. As of March 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $374.5 million. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs until midway through the fourth quarter of 2025, based on our current business plan, and expectations and assumptions considering current macroeconomic conditions. Accordingly, based on our estimates and current business plan, we expect that we will need to obtain additional capital by midway through the fourth quarter of 2025, in order to fund our research and development efforts and business objectives as currently planned. Our estimate does not assume any additional financing, and there is no assurance that additional financing will be available. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to raise additional funding when needed and on attractive terms, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. In February 2023, we announced an updated business strategy, including revisions to our technology roadmap. In connection with this updated strategy, we implemented a workforce reduction beginning in February 2023 to focus the organization and our resources on nearer-term strategic priorities and our efforts to achieve narrow quantum advantage. Key achievements in 2023 included the launch of the Ankaa 84- qubit Ankaa-2 system to customers via Rigetti Quantum Cloud Services (QCS). The Ankaa-2 system achieved 98% median 2-qubit fidelity, which represents a 2.5x performance improvement compared to our previous QPUs. We continue to plan to: Continue working to improve the performance of our QPUs with the goal of reaching at least 99% 2-qubit gate fidelity on an anticipated Ankaa-3 84 qubit system by the end of 2024. If the above target is achieved, we plan to shift focus to scaling to develop Lyra, an anticipated 336-qubit system. We also plan to continue to pursue sales of Novera, our first commercially available QPU launched in 2023, which features a 9-qubit chip, tunable couplers for fast 2-qubit operations and a 5-qubit chip for testing single-qubit operations. We believe that this business plan should enable us to concentrate our software application development strategy on what we believe to be the highest likelihood applications for demonstrating nearer term narrow quantum advantage. In February 2023, the reduction in the workforce impacted approximately 50 employees or 28% of our then workforce. We began implementing activities with respect to the revised business plan and reduction in workforce in February 2023. Affected employees were offered separation benefits, including severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage assistance. We incurred a $1.0 million restructuring charge in the three months ended March 31, 2023, for severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage for affected employees. In addition to the restructuring charge, we also incurred $1.0 million of expenses for contractual severance benefits related to executive officers of the Company that were terminated in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Macroeconomic Considerations Unfavorable conditions in the economy in the United States and abroad may negatively affect the growth of our business and have affected our results of operations. For example, macroeconomic events, including rising inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve raising interest rates, recent and potential bank failures, the ongoing military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine and sanctions related thereto, the state of war between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger conflict have led to economic uncertainty globally. The effect of macroeconomic conditions may not be fully reflected in the results of operations until future periods. If, however, economic uncertainty increases or the global economy worsens, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. For further discussion of the potential impacts of macroeconomic events on our business, financial condition, and operating results, see the section titled Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, including the risk factor titled Unstable market and economic conditions have had and may continue to have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and share price. We have experienced and may experience further increases in the cost of raw materials, component parts, and labor, which we largely attribute to inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve raising interest rates, high demand, and supply chain restraints. Rising costs and supply chain constraints have been further exacerbated by the ongoing military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine and sanctions related thereto, the state of war between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger conflict. 32 Table of Contents We expect these increased costs will persist for the foreseeable future and may increase. Additionally, inflation and rising interest rates may result in an economic recession globally or in the U.S., which could lead to a reduction in product demand, a decrease in corporate capital expenditures, prolonged unemployment, labor shortages, reduction in consumer confidence, adverse geopolitical and macroeconomic events, or any similar negative economic condition. Economic conditions in some parts of the world have been worsening, with disruptions to, and volatility and uncertainty in, the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide resulting from the effects of inflation and increases in interest rates. It is not possible at this time to estimate the long-term impact that these and related events could have on our business, as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If these conditions persist and deepen, we could experience an inability to access additional capital, or our liquidity could otherwise be impacted. If we are unable to raise capital when needed and on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and other efforts. However, like many other companies, we are taking actions to monitor our operations to account for the increases in the cost of capital. Specifically, this includes efforts to enhance our operational efficiency, including with respect to capital expenditures, maximize our R&D productivity spend through strategic collaborations, and being highly selective in hiring top-tier talent. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue through our development contracts, as well as from our sales of QPUs, and our QCaaS offerings and other services including training and provision of quantum computing components. Development contracts are generally multi-year, non-recurring arrangements pursuant to which we provide professional services regarding collaborative research in practical applications of quantum computing to technology and business problems within the customers industry or organization and assists the customer in developing quantum algorithms and applications to assist customers in areas of business interest. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of all direct and indirect costs associated with sales of QPUs, QCaaS offerings and development contracts and other services, including materials, employee costs for program management and personnel associated with the delivery of goods and services to customers, and sub-contract costs for work performed by third parties. Cost of revenue also includes an allocation of facility costs, depreciation and amortization directly related to the development contracts and QCaaS offerings and other services. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses primarily consist of research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Sales and marketing expenses became less significant following the reduction in workforce and strategic realignment we announced in February 2023. For this reason, sales and marketing and general administrative expenses have been combined and are now reported as selling, general and administrative. Related amounts for all prior periods have been reclassified to conform with this presentation. Research and Development Research and development expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, outside consultant fees, facility costs, depreciation and amortization, materials and components purchased for research and development. We expect research and development expenses to increase as we continue to invest in quantum computing and the superconducting quantum processors needed for quantum computers. We do not currently capitalize any research and development expenditures. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. 33 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, insurance, facility costs, professional service fees, and other general overhead costs other than those associated with sales of QPUs and providing development contracts, QCaaS offerings and other services. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as we grow our business, particularly to the extent we achieve narrow and broad quantum advantage, and subsequently enhance our product and service offerings, expand our customer base, and implement new marketing strategies. Restructuring In February 2023, we announced an updated business strategy, including revisions to our technology roadmap. In connection with this updated strategy, we implemented a workforce reduction in order to focus the organization and its resources on nearer-term strategic priorities. The reduction in the workforce impacted approximately 50 employees or approximately 28% of our then workforce. Affected employees were offered separation benefits, including severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage assistance. Provision for Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated (in thousands): The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 vs. 2023 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 3,052 $ 2,201 $ 851 39 % Cost of revenue 1,552 510 1,042 204 % Total gross profit 1,500 1,691 (191) (11) % Operating expenses: Research and development 11,471 13,707 (2,236) (16) % Selling, general and administrative 6,614 9,013 (2,399) (27) % Restructuring 991 (991) NM Total operating expenses 18,085 23,711 (5,626) (24) % Loss from operations (16,585) (22,020) 5,435 (25) % Other (expense) income, net Interest expense (1,107) (1,464) 357 (24) % Interest income 1,123 1,284 (161) (13) % Change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities (2,583) (873) (1,710) 196 % Change in fair value of earn-out liabilities (1,621) (281) (1,340) 477 % Total other (expense) income, net (4,188) (1,334) (2,854) 214 % Net loss before provision for income taxes (20,773) (23,354) 2,581 (11) % Provision for income taxes Net loss $ (20,773) $ (23,354) $ 2,581 34 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue increased by $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our development contracts are typically fixed price milestone or cost share-based contracts and the timing and amounts of revenue recognized in any given period will vary significantly based on the delivery of the associated milestones and/or the work performed. The timing and delivery of QPU sales will also vary and impact revenue in any given quarterly or annual period. The increase in revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2024 reflects typical variability in the timing of revenue recognition from development contracts. Revenue from development contracts and QPU sales is expected to vary in terms of timing and size, resulting in significant fluctuations in revenue levels in future periods. For the next few years, we expect much of our revenue to be generated from development contracts and sales of QPUs. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in cost of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2024 is primarily due to changes in the composition of our revenue and variability in the pricing and terms of our development contracts. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we entered into a new contract to deliver a 24 qubit quantum computing system with higher costs and a lower gross margin profile than most of our other contracts, contributing to the increase in cost of revenue and lower gross margin percentage for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. We expect that cost of revenue and total gross profit as a percentage of revenue will vary in future quarterly and annual periods due to changes in the composition of our revenue and variability in the pricing and terms of our development contracts. Operating Expenses Research and development Research and development expenses decreased by $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to the following factors: Salaries and employee related expenses decreased by $1.6 million, primarily due to our February 2023 restructuring. IT costs decreased by $0.9 million, primarily due to savings from R&D related IT systems rationalization. Cost decreases were partially offset by increases in stock-based compensation of $0.4 million and other expenses. Stock compensation expenses were low during the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to forfeitures resulting from the February 2023 restructuring. We anticipate that R&D expenditure will grow in the future as we continue to focus on our technology roadmap and long-term goal of achieving broad quantum advantage. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to the following factors: Salaries, severance and employee related expenses decreased by $1.7 million, primarily due to our February 2023 restructuring. The three months ended March 31, 2023 included $1.1 million of expense related to the Ampere Forward Agreement which expired in October 2023. The Ampere Forward Agreement had no impact on our results for the three months ended March 31, 2024. 35 Table of Contents Costs primarily related to public company compliance decreased by $1.0 million, because many of these activities are either performed more efficiently or have been brought in-house. Cost decreases were partially offset by increases in stock-based compensation of $0.9 million and other net increases totaling $0.5 million. Stock compensation expenses were low during the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to forfeitures resulting from the February 2023 restructuring. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase over the longer term, particularly after we potentially achieve quantum advantage, and plan to subsequently enhance our sales and service offerings, expand our customer base, and implement new marketing strategies. Restructuring In February 2023, we announced an updated business strategy, including revisions to our technology roadmap. In connection with this updated strategy, we implemented a workforce reduction in order to focus the organization and our resources on nearer-term strategic priorities. The reduction in the workforce impacted approximately 50 employees or approximately 28% of our then workforce. Affected employees were offered separation benefits, including severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage assistance. We began implementing activities with respect to our revised business plan, updated technology roadmap and reduction in workforce in February 2023, resulting in a $1.0 million restructuring charge for the three months ended March 31, 2023. No further restructuring charges related to this action are expected. Other income and (expense), net Interest expense Our outstanding debt carries a variable rate of interest. Interest expenses decreased by $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The reduction in interest expense was due to the lower outstanding balance of principal at March 31, 2024 compared to March 31, 2023, due to principal repayments, offset in part by the impact of increases in the prime interest rate that occurred throughout 2023. Interest income Interest income was $1.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, down from $1.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in interest income is due to lower balances of invested cash and available-for-sale investments during the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, offset in part by higher rates of interest earned on our investments. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities A discussion of the change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities is included in Note 8 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2024, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The change in fair value of our warrant liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was a loss of $2.6 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The increase in loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily due to the change in our stock price and related share price volatility. Change in Fair Value of Earn-Out Liabilities A discussion of the change in the fair value of the earn-out liabilities is included in Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2024, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 36 Table of Contents The change in fair value of our earn-out liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was a loss of $1.6 million and $0.3 million, respectively. The increase in loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily due to the change in our stock price and related share price volatility. Provision for Income Taxes We did not record income tax expense during the three months ended March 31, 2024 or 2023 due to the Companys loss position and full valuation allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses and negative cash flows since inception. Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through proceeds from the Business Combination (see Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2024), issuance of common stock, preferred stock, warrants, convertible notes, venture backed debt and revenues. Our net losses were $75.1 million and $71.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and our net loss was $20.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We expect to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future as we invest in research, development, and infrastructure consistent with our long-term business strategy. As of March 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $374.5 million. We received net proceeds of $225.6 million from the closing of the Business Combination on March 2, 2022. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we received proceeds of $12.8 million, from the sale of 10,056,799 shares of our common stock to B. Riley under a Purchase Agreement which has since terminated, because there are no remaining shares available for sale under the agreement. On March 15, 2024, we entered into an ATM Sales Agreement pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time at our sole discretion, shares of our common stock, having an aggregate offering price of up to $100,000,000, subject to certain limitations as set forth in the ATM Sales Agreement. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we received net proceeds of $11.0 million from the sale of 6,645,982 shares of our common stock under the ATM sales agreement. During the month of April 2024, we received an additional $9.0 million of net proceeds from the sale of 6,320,000 shares of common stock under the ATM sales agreement. We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months, and to midway through the fourth quarter of 2025, based on our current business plan, and expectations and assumptions considering current macroeconomic conditions. Based on our estimates and current business plan, we expect that we will need to obtain additional capital by midway through the fourth quarter of 2025 to fund our research and development efforts and business objectives as currently planned. Our estimate does not assume any additional financing and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. If we are unable to raise additional funding when needed and on attractive terms, we may be required to delay, limit or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. We have based these estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect, and future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the section under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Inflation and rising interest rates may result in an economic recession globally or in the U.S., which could lead to a reduction in product demand, a decrease in corporate capital expenditures, prolonged unemployment, labor shortages, reduction in consumer confidence, adverse geopolitical and macroeconomic events, or any similar negative economic condition. Economic conditions in some parts of the world have been worsening, with disruptions to, and volatility and uncertainty in, the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide resulting from the effects of inflation and rising interest rates. These conditions have been further exacerbated by recent and potential future disruptions in access to bank deposits or lending commitments due to bank failures, the ongoing military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine and sanctions related thereto, the state of war between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger conflict. 37 Table of Contents It is not possible at this time to estimate the long-term impact that these and related events could have on our business, as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If these conditions persist and deepen, we could experience an inability to access additional capital, or our liquidity could otherwise be impacted. If we are unable to raise capital when needed and on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and/or other efforts. A recession or additional market corrections resulting from the impact of difficult macroeconomic conditions or disruptions in the banking system could materially affect our business and the value of our securities. Our cash requirements include employee-related costs such as salaries and benefits; materials and components for research and development; working capital requirements; capital expenditures for our quantum chip fabrication facility; quantum computing refrigerators and other requirements; planned development of multiple generations of quantum processors; anticipated investments to scale our operations in the future; and strategic collaborative arrangements and investments. We will require a significant amount of cash for expenditure as we invest in ongoing research and development and business operations. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from sales of QPUs, our development contracts and other services, including our QCaaS offering, we expect to finance our cash needs primarily through our existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments, potential securities financings or other capital sources. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed and on attractive terms, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the section under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Furthermore, we currently have on file with the SEC an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which allows us to offer and sell up to an aggregate amount of $250.0 million of any combination of common stock, common stock or preferred stock upon conversion of debt securities, common stock upon conversion of preferred stock, or common stock, preferred stock or debt securities upon exercise of warrants from time to time, pursuant to which we have entered into an ATM offering for the sale of up to an aggregate amount of $100 million of common stock from time to time, of which $79.5 million of common stock remains available for sale as of the date hereof. Loan and Security Agreement In January 2022, we entered into the Third Amendment to the Loan Agreement with Trinity to increase the debt commitment by $5.0 million to $32.0 million thereunder. The amendment allowed us to draw an additional $5.0 million immediately with an additional $8.0 million to be drawn at the sole discretion of the lender. We drew the additional $5.0 million upon signing the amendment. The Third Amendment also included an extension of the requirement to raise an additional $75.0 million of equity which was satisfied through the Business Combination and a defined exit fee for the additional $5.0 million to be at 20% of the advanced funds under the Third Amendment. In conjunction with the amendment, we also guaranteed payment of all monetary amounts owed and performance of all covenants, obligations and liabilities. As of March 31, 2024, the total principal amount outstanding under the Loan Agreement was $19.3 million. The Loan Agreement is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. 38 Table of Contents Our cash commitments as of March 31, 2024 were primarily as follows (in thousands): Total Short-term Long-term Financing obligations $ 19,330 $ 13,446 $ 5,884 Estimated cash interest on financing obligations 3,391 2,138 1,253 Operating lease 9,845 2,297 7,548 $ 32,566 $ 17,881 $ 14,685 Financing obligations consist of payments related to the Loan and Security Agreement. Operating lease obligations consist of obligations under non-cancelable operating leases for our offices, facilities and equipment. The table above does not include amounts owed for purchases of capital equipment; supplies; materials; or fixed or minimum services under non-cancelable contracts. Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our ability to achieve significant growth to offset expenditures related to research and development, and selling, general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $13.1 million, primarily resulting from our net loss of $20.8 million, partially offset by non-cash expenses totaling $8.8 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a $1.2 million negative impact on net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $15.5 million, primarily resulting from our net loss of $23.4 million, partially offset by non-cash expenses totaling $7.1 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a $0.8 million negative impact on net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Cash used in operating activities was reduced by $2.4 million to $13.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, from $15.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our net loss from operations decreased by $2.6 million to $20.8 million for three months ended March 31, 2024. Non-cash charges impacting our net loss from operations increased by $1.7 million to $8.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, from $7.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Operating assets and liabilities had a $0.4 million negative impact on the change in cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 totaled $6.2 million, resulting from $39.0 million of maturities of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by $27.3 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities and $5.5 million of purchases of property and equipment. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 totaled $15.0 million, resulting from $38.5 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities and $4.8 million of purchases of property and equipment, offset in part by $28.3 million of maturities of available-for-sale securities. Investments in property and equipment relate primarily to process computing equipment, quantum computing refrigerators, and development tools for our chip fabrication facility. Net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $21.2 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to an increase in maturities of available-for-sale securities and decreased purchases of available-for-sale securities. 39 Table of Contents Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 totaled $20.7 million. We received net proceeds of $12.8 million from the sale of 10,056,799 shares of common stock to B. Riley through our prior Purchase Agreement and net proceeds of $11.0 million from the sale of 6,645,982 shares of common stock pursuant to our ATM program. Proceeds from the sale of common stock were offset in part by principal payments of $3.0 million under the Loan Agreement and payments of $0.2 million for deferred offering costs. Cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 totaled $1.2 million, reflecting $1.8 million of principal payments under the Loan Agreement and payments of $0.1 million for deferred offering costs, offset in part by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants totaling $0.8 million. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $21.9 million when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, largely due to the sale of common through our prior Purchase Agreement with B. Riley and our ATM program. We expect to satisfy our cash needs primarily through on-hand cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments, the sale of common stock through the ATM Agreement, subject to market and other conditions, and other potential securities financings or capital sources. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgements and Estimates This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions that affect revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. While our significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, we believe the following critical accounting policies and estimates are most important to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Public and Private Warrants Prior to the Business Combination, SNII issued 4,450,000 private placement warrants (Private Warrants) and 8,625,000 public warrants (Public Warrants and collectively, Warrants). As of March 31 2024, there were 13,074,972 Warrants outstanding, consisting of 3,272,834 Private Warrants and 9,802,138 Public Warrants. Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of our Common Stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustments and will expire five years after the Merger or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. The Private Warrants do not meet the derivative scope exception and are accounted for as derivative liabilities. Specifically, the Private Warrants contain provisions that cause the settlement amounts to be dependent upon the characteristics of the holder of the warrant which is not an input into the pricing of a fixed-for-fixed option on equity shares. Therefore, the Private Warrants are not considered indexed to our stock and should be classified as a liability. Since the Private Warrants meet the definition of a derivative, we recorded the Private Warrants as liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at fair value upon the closing of the Business Combination, with subsequent changes in the fair value recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations at each reporting date. The fair value of the Private Warrants was measured using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at each measurement date. 40 Table of Contents The Public Warrants also fail to meet the indexation guidance in ASC 815 and are accounted for as liabilities as the Public Warrants include a provision whereby in a scenario in which there is not an effective registration statement, the warrant holders have a cap, 0.361 shares of Common Stock per warrant (subject to adjustment), on the issuable number of shares in a cashless exercise. Subsequent to the separate listing and trading of the Public Warrants, the fair value of the Public Warrants has been measured based on the observable listed prices for such warrants and the fair value of the Private Warrants are measured using a Monte Carlo Pricing Model. On the consummation of the Business Combination, we recorded a liability related to the Private Warrants of $9.6 million, with an offsetting entry to additional paid-in capital. As of March 31, 2024, the fair value of the Private Warrants decreased to $3.1 million, with the change in fair value of the derivative warrant liabilities recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of operations each reporting period. Similarly, on the consummation of the Business Combination, we recorded a liability related to the Public Warrants of $16.3 million, with an offsetting entry to additional paid-in capital. As of March 31, 2024, the fair value of the Public Warrants decreased to $2.4 million with the change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of operations each reporting period. Other Derivative Warrant Liabilities We currently do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815) at the initial recognition date. Earn-Out Liabilities Upon the closing of the Business Combination on March 2, 2022, SNII, Supernova Partners II, LLC and SNIIs directors and officers (collectively the Sponsor Holders) subjected certain shares of Common Stock that it owns (the Sponsor Vesting Shares) to forfeiture for a five-year period following the closing of the Business Combination, with vesting occurring only if thresholds related to the weighted average price of Common Stock are met for the duration of various specified consecutive day trading periods following the closing of the Business Combination (the Earn-out Triggering Events). Any such shares held by the Sponsor Holders that have not vested by the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Business Combination will be forfeited. The Sponsor Vesting Shares are accounted for as liability classified instruments because the Earn-Out Triggering Events that determine the number of Sponsor Vesting Shares to be earned back by the Sponsor Holders include outcomes that are not solely indexed to our Common Stock. The aggregate fair value of the Sponsor Vesting Shares at the time of the Business Combination Closing was estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model and was determined to be $20.4 million. As of March 31, 2024, the Earn-Out Triggering Events were not achieved for any of the tranches, and as such, the Company adjusted the carrying amount of the liability to its estimated fair value of $3.8 million with the change in fair value of the earn-out liability recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of operations each reporting period. Revenue Recognition Revenue consists primarily of our contracts that provide access to Rigetti quantum computing systems, collaborative research services, professional services, and the sale of QPUs and custom quantum computing components. Access to Rigetti quantum computing systems can be purchased as a quantum computing subscription, or on a usage basis for a specified quantity of hours. Revenue related to subscription-based access to Rigetti quantum computing systems (i.e., quantum computing subscriptions) is recognized on a ratable basis over the subscription term, which can range from six months to two years. Revenue related to usage-based access to Rigetti quantum computing systems is recognized over 41 Table of Contents time as the systems are accessed using an output method based on compute credit hours expended. Revenue related to collaborative research services and professional services is recognized over time based on completed milestones or hours or costs incurred as appropriate. Revenue for partially completed milestones deemed probable of being met is recognized using an input measure based on actual labor hours incurred to date relative to total estimated labor hours needed to complete the milestone. Revenue related to cost share contracts is recognized as the reimbursable costs are incurred. For fixed price milestone-based contracts, revenue is recognized based on the input measure explained above as control is expected to transfer over the time period a milestone is completed. Revenue related to the sale of QPUs and custom quantum computing components is recognized at a point in time, and upon customer acceptance for custom quantum computing components. Our fixed fee development contracts vary in term from one to five years, with the majority of such contracts having a term of 18 months to two years. When establishing the pricing for our fixed fee arrangements, we determine the pricing based on estimated costs to complete and expected margins taking into account the scope of work outlined within the contract being evaluated and our historical experience with similar services and contracts. Actual costs incurred over the period in which these contracts are fulfilled could vary from these estimates and therefore, these estimates are subject to uncertainty. On a quarterly basis, management reviews the progress with respect to each contract and its related milestones and evaluates whether any changes in estimates exist. As a result of the quarterly reviews, revisions in the estimated effort to complete the contract are reflected in the period in which the change is identified. These revisions may impact the overall progress related to transfer of control and therefore result in either increases or decreases in revenues as well as increases or decreases in fulfillment costs and contract margins. In accordance, with ASC No. 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, any changes in estimates are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations in the period in which the circumstances that give rise to the revision become known to management. To date, we have not experienced any changes in estimates that have had a material impact on our results from operations or financial position. When our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated on a relative standalone selling price basis to each performance obligation. We typically determine standalone selling price based on observable selling prices of our products and services. In instances where standalone selling price is not directly observable, standalone selling price is determined using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. Stand-alone selling price is typically established as a range. In situations in which the stated contract price for a performance obligation is outside of the applicable standalone selling price range and has a different pattern of transfer to the customer than the other performance obligations in the contract, we will reallocate the total transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods and services to the customer. Revenue is recorded based on the transaction price, which includes fixed consideration and estimates of variable consideration. The amount of variable consideration included in the transaction price is constrained and is included only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Our contracts with customers may include renewal or other options at fixed prices. Determining whether such options are considered distinct performance obligations that provide the customer with a material right and therefore should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each renewal option to determine whether the renewal pricing is reflective of standalone selling price or is reflective of a discount that would provide the customer with a material right. Based on our assessment of standalone selling prices, we determined that there were no significant material rights provided to our customers requiring separate recognition. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements A description of recently issued accounting pronouncements that may potentially impact our financial position and results of operations is disclosed in Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2024 included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 42 Table of Contents Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status In April 2012, the JOBS Act was enacted. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Therefore, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Following the Business Combination, we still qualify as an emerging growth company and plan to take advantage of the extended transition period that emerging growth company status permits. During the extended transition period, it may be difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that complies with public company effective dates for accounting standard updates because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2026, the last day of our first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of SNIIs initial public offering, (b) the last date of our fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.24 billion, (c) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC with at least $700.0 million of outstanding securities held by non-affiliates or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three years. We are also a smaller reporting company as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We may take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies and will be able to take advantage of these scaled disclosures for so long as the market value of our voting and non-voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or our annual revenue is less than $100.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our voting and non-voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates is less than $700.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter.