ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, will, continue, project, forecast, goal, should, could, would, potential, and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview On March 2, 2022 (the Closing Date), we consummated the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 6, 2021, as amended on December 23, 2021 and January 10, 2022 (as amended, the Merger Agreement), by and among Supernova Partners Acquisition Company II, Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted company (Supernova), Supernova Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Supernova (the First Merger Sub), Supernova Romeo Merger Sub, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Supernova (the Second Merger Sub), and Rigetti Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Legacy Rigetti). As contemplated by the Merger Agreement, on March 1, 2022 Supernova was domesticated as a Delaware corporation and changed its name to Rigetti Computing, Inc. (the Domestication). On the Closing Date, (i) First Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Rigetti, the separate corporate existence of First Merger Sub ceased and Legacy Rigetti survived as a wholly owned subsidiary of Rigetti Computing, Inc. (the Surviving Corporation and, such merger, the First Merger), and (ii) immediately following the First Merger, the Surviving Corporation merged with and into the Second Merger Sub, the separate corporate existence of the Surviving Corporation ceased and Second Merger Sub survived as a wholly owned subsidiary of Rigetti Computing, Inc. and changed its name to Rigetti Intermediate LLC (such merger transaction, the Second Merger and, together with the First Merger, the Merger, and, collectively with the Domestication, the PIPE Financing (as defined below) and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Business Combination). The closing of the Business Combination is herein referred to as the Closing. We build quantum computers and the superconducting quantum processors that power them. We believe quantum computing represents one of the most transformative emerging capabilities in the world today. By leveraging quantum mechanics, we believe our quantum computers process information in fundamentally new, more powerful ways than classical computers. When scaled, it is anticipated that these systems will be poised to solve problems of staggering computational complexity at unprecedented speed. With the goal of unlocking this opportunity, we have developed the worlds first multi-chip quantum processor for scalable quantum computing systems. We believe that this patented and patent pending, modular chip architecture is the building block for new generations of quantum processors that we expect to achieve a clear advantage over classical computers. Our long-term business model centers on revenue generated from sales of quantum processing units (QPUs) and quantum computing systems made accessible via the cloud in the form of Quantum Computing as a Service (QCaaS) products. However, the substantial majority of our revenues are derived from development contracts, and we anticipate this market opportunity will continue to represent an important source of revenue for at least the next several years as we work to ramp up sales of QPUs and our QCaaS business. Additionally, we are working to further develop a revenue stream and forging important customer relationships by entering into technology development contracts with various partners. 40 Table of Contents We are a vertically integrated company. We own and operate Fab-1, a dedicated and integrated laboratory and manufacturing facility, through which we own the means of producing our breakthrough multi-chip quantum processor technology. We leverage our chips through a full-stack product development approach, from quantum chip design and manufacturing through cloud delivery. We believe this full-stack development approach offers both the fastest and lowest risk path to building commercially valuable quantum computers. We have been generating revenue since 2018 through partnerships with government agencies and commercial organizations; however, we have not yet generated profits. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception. Our net losses were $71.5 million and $38.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, and 11 months ended December 31, 2021, respectively. Our net losses were $22.2 million and $18.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and September 30, 2022, respectively, and $62.5 million and $48.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and September 30, 2022, respectively. We expect to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future as we invest in research, development, and infrastructure consistent with our long-term business strategy. As of September 30, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $341.2 million. Based on our estimates and current business plan, we expect that we will need to obtain additional capital by early 2025, including any additional sales of common stock through our Common Stock Purchase Agreement with B. Riley or from other sources, in order to fund our research and development efforts and business objectives as currently planned. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available. If we are unable to raise additional funding when needed and on attractive terms, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. In February 2023, we announced an updated business strategy, including revisions to our technology roadmap. In connection with this updated strategy, we implemented a workforce reduction beginning in February 2023 to focus the organization and our resources on nearer-term strategic priorities. In March 2023, we further refined our business strategy after internally deploying Ankaa-1, our 84-qubit system delivering denser qubit spacing and tunable couplers, within our company for testing. We have since concentrated on refining the performance of Ankaa-1 and have externally launched the Ankaa-1 84-qubit system, to one select customer who is conducting error correction research. We plan to continue efforts to improve the performance of the system with the goal of reaching at least 98% 2-qubit gate fidelity to support the anticipated Ankaa-2 84-qubit system. We then plan to launch the anticipated Ankaa-2 84 qubit system, continuing to work to improve performance with the goal of reaching at least 99% gate fidelity on Ankaa-2. If these targets are achieved, we plan to shift focus to scaling to develop Lyra, an anticipated 336-qubit system. We believe that this business plan should enable us to concentrate our software application development strategy on what we believe to be the highest likelihood applications for demonstrating nearer term narrow quantum advantage. The reduction in the workforce impacted approximately 50 employees or 28% of our then workforce. We began implementing activities with respect to the revised business plan and reduction in workforce in February 2023. Affected employees were offered separation benefits, including severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage assistance. We incurred a $1.0 million restructuring charge in the three months ended March 31, 2023, for severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage for effected employees. In addition to the restructuring charge, we also incurred $1.0 million of expenses for contractual severance benefits related to executive officers of the Company that were terminated in the three months ended March 31, 2023. The Business Combination and PIPE Financing On October 6, 2021, SNII entered into the Merger Agreement by and among Supernova, First Merger Sub, Second Merger Sub, and Legacy Rigetti. On March 2, 2022, the Business Combination was consummated. While the legal acquirer in the Merger Agreement was Supernova, for financial accounting and reporting purposes under United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Rigetti was the accounting acquirer, and the Merger was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization. A reverse recapitalization does not result in a new basis of accounting, and the financial statements of Rigetti represent the continuation of the financial statements of Legacy Rigetti in many respects. Under this method of accounting, Supernova was treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. 41 Table of Contents For accounting purposes, Rigetti was deemed to be the accounting acquirer in the transaction and, consequently, the transaction was treated as a recapitalization of Rigetti (i.e., a capital transaction involving the issuance of stock by Supernova for the stock of Rigetti). As a result of the Business Combination, all of the shares of Legacy Rigetti Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Closing (including Legacy Rigetti Common Stock resulting from the Legacy Rigetti preferred stock conversion) were converted into the right to receive an aggregate of 78,959,579 shares of our Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Common Stock). Additionally, each issued and outstanding share of Supernova Class A and Class B Common Stock held by Supernova automatically converted to 20,209,462 shares of Common Stock (of which 3,059,273 shares are subject to vesting under certain conditions). Upon consummation of the Business Combination, the most significant change in our reported financial position and results of operations was an increase in cash of $205.0 million, including $225.6 million of proceeds from the Business Combination and PIPE Financing, net of transaction costs incurred by us of $20.6 million. Additional direct and incremental transaction costs were also incurred by Rigetti in connection with the Business Combination. Generally, costs (e.g., SPAC shares) are recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. Costs allocated to liability-classified instruments that are subsequently measured at fair value through earnings (e.g., certain SPAC warrants) are expensed. Rigettis transaction costs totaled $20.6 million, of which $19.7 million was allocated to equity-classified instruments and recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital, and the remaining $0.9 million was allocated to liability-classified instruments that are subsequently measured at fair value through earnings and recognized as expense in the consolidated statements of operations. As a result of the Business Combination, we became subject to the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market, which has and will necessitate us to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to address such public company requirements. We expect to incur additional ongoing expenses as a public company for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees, and additional internal and external accounting, legal and administrative resources. Our future results of consolidated operations and financial position may not be comparable to historical results for a variety of reasons, including as a result of the Business Combination. Macroeconomic Considerations Unfavorable conditions in the economy in the United States and abroad may negatively affect the growth of our business and have affected our results of operations. For example, macroeconomic events, including rising inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve raising interest rates, recent bank failures, the ongoing military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine and sanctions related thereto, the state of war between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger regional conflict have led to economic uncertainty globally. The effect of macroeconomic conditions may not be fully reflected in the results of operations until future periods. If, however, economic uncertainty increases or the global economy worsens, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. For further discussion of the potential impacts of macroeconomic events on our business, financial condition, and operating results, see the section titled Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, including the risk factor titled Unstable market and economic conditions have had and may continue to have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and share price. We have experienced and may experience further increases in the cost of raw materials, component parts, and labor, which we largely attribute to inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve raising interest rates, high demand, and supply chain restraints. Rising costs and supply chain constraints have been further exacerbated by the ongoing military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine and sanctions related thereto, the state of war between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger regional conflict. We expect these increased costs will persist for the foreseeable future and may increase. Additionally, inflation and rising interest rates may result in an economic recession globally or in the U.S., which could lead to a reduction in product demand, a decrease in corporate capital expenditures, prolonged unemployment, labor shortages, reduction in consumer confidence, adverse geopolitical and macroeconomic events, or any similar negative economic condition. Economic conditions in some parts of the world have been worsening, with disruptions to, and volatility and uncertainty in, the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide resulting from the effects of inflation and increases in interest rates. 42 Table of Contents These conditions have been further exacerbated by recent and potential future disruptions in access to bank deposits or lending commitments due to bank failures, the ongoing military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine and sanctions related thereto, the state of war between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger regional conflict. It is not possible at this time to estimate the long-term impact that these and related events could have on our business, as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If these conditions persist and deepen, we could experience an inability to access additional capital, or our liquidity could otherwise be impacted. If we are unable to raise capital when needed and on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and other efforts. However, like many other companies, we are taking actions to monitor our operations to account for the increases in the cost of capital. Specifically, this includes efforts to enhance our operational efficiency, maximize our R&D spend through strategic collaborations, and being highly selective in hiring top-tier talent. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue through our development contracts, as well as from our sales of QPUs, and our QCaaS offerings and other services including training and provision of quantum computing components. Development contracts are generally multi-year, non-recurring arrangements pursuant to which we provide professional services regarding collaborative research in practical applications of quantum computing to technology and business problems within the customers industry or organization and assists the customer in developing quantum algorithms and applications to assist customers in areas of business interest. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of all direct and indirect costs associated with sales of QPUs, QCaaS offerings and development contracts and other services, including employee costs for program management and personnel associated with the delivery of goods and services to customers and sub-contract costs for work performed by third parties. Cost of revenue also includes an allocation of facility costs, depreciation and amortization directly related to the development contracts and QCaaS offerings and other services. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses primarily consist of research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Sales and marketing expenses became less significant following the reduction in workforce and strategic realignment we announced in February 2023. For this reason, sales and marketing and general administrative expenses have been combined and are now reported as selling, general and administrative. Related amounts for all prior periods have been reclassified to conform with this presentation. Research and Development Research and development expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, outside consultant fees, facility costs, depreciation and amortization, materials and components purchased for research and development. We expect research and development expenses to increase as we continue to invest in quantum computing and the superconducting quantum processors needed for quantum computers. We do not currently capitalize any research and development expenditures. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, insurance, facility costs, professional service fees, and other general overhead costs other than those associated with sales of QPUs and providing development contracts, QCaaS offerings and other services. 43 Table of Contents Restructuring In February 2023, we announced an updated business strategy, including revisions to our technology roadmap. In connection with this updated strategy, we implemented a workforce reduction in order to focus the organization and its resources on nearer-term strategic priorities. The reduction in the workforce impacted approximately 50 employees or approximately 28% of our then workforce. Affected employees were offered separation benefits, including severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage assistance. Provision for Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 versus 2022 September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 3,105 $ 2,804 $ 301 11 % $ 8,632 $ 7,042 $ 1,590 23 % Cost of revenue 834 776 58 7 % 1,940 2,063 (123) (6) % Total gross profit 2,271 2,028 243 12 % 6,692 4,979 1,713 34 % Research and development 13,056 17,365 (4,309) (25) % 39,981 44,040 (4,059) (9) % Selling, general and administrative 6,047 15,987 (9,940) (62) % 20,808 43,293 (22,485) (52) % Restructuring nm * 991 991 100 % Total operating expenses 19,103 33,352 (14,249) (43) % 61,780 87,333 (25,553) (29) % Loss from operations (16,832) (31,324) 14,492 (46) % (55,088) (82,354) 27,266 (33) % Other income (expense), net Interest expense $ (1,473) $ (1,436) $ (37) 3 % $ (4,511) $ (3,811) $ (700) 18 % Interest income 1,263 1,042 221 21 % 3,746 1,172 2,574 220 % Change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities (3,442) 8,103 (11,545) (142) % (4,320) 19,853 (24,173) (122) % Change in fair value of earn-out liabilities (1,731) 4,860 (6,591) (136) % (2,362) 17,418 (19,780) (114) % Transaction costs nm * (927) 927 (100) % Total other income (expense), net (5,383) 12,569 (17,952) (143) % (7,447) 33,705 (41,152) (122) % Net loss before provision for income taxes (22,215) (18,755) (3,460) 18 % (62,535) (48,649) (13,886) 29 % Provision for income taxes Net loss $ (22,215) $ (18,755) $ (3,460) $ (62,535) $ (48,649) $ (13,886) Revenue Revenue increased by $0.3 million and $1.6 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to three and nine months ended September 30, 2022. Our development contracts are typically fixed price milestone or cost share-based contracts and the timing and amounts of revenue recognized in any given quarter will vary significantly based on the delivery of the associated milestones and/or the work performed. The increase in revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 reflects typical variability in the timing of revenue recognition from development contracts. Revenue from these contracts is expected to vary in terms of timing and size, resulting in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue levels. For the next few years, we expect much of our revenue to be generated from development contracts. There may be some near-term reduction in revenue as we align to our updated strategy announced in February 2023. 44 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $0.1 million and decreased by $0.1 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to three and nine months ended September 30, 2022.The increase in cost of revenue and the improvement in total gross profit as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2023 and the decrease in cost of revenue and the improvement in total gross profit as a percentage of revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 are primarily due to changes in the composition of our revenue and variability in the pricing and terms of our development contracts. We expect that cost of revenue and total gross profit as a percentage of revenue will vary from quarter-to-quarter in future periods due to changes in the composition of our revenue and variability in the pricing and terms of our development contracts. Operating Expenses Research and development Research and development expenses decreased by $4.3 million and $4.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. Salaries and employee benefit expenses decreased by $1.6 million and $0.3 million, and stock-based compensation decreased by $2.9 million and $3.6 million, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The decreases in employee wages and benefit expenses and stock-based compensation resulted from our February 2023 reduction in workforce. A $1.3 million out-of-period adjustment for electrical utility fees during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 also contributed to the decrease in research and development expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. A $1.6 million charge for deferred stock-based compensation expense related to the closing of the Business Combination during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 contributed to the decrease in stock-based compensation during the nine months ended September 30, 2023. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.3 million and $1.5 million increase in depreciation expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, due to purchases of property and equipment, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. We anticipate that R&D expenditures will grow in the future as we continue to focus on our technology roadmap and long-term goal of achieving broad quantum advantage. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $9.9 million and $22.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The decreases for the three and nine months ended September 2023 are primarily due to a reduction in stock-based compensation of $8.5 million and $25.3 million, respectively, partially offset by unfavorable changes in the fair value of the Ampere Forward Agreement of $1.5 million and $7.7 million, respectively. The remaining differences are due to lower wage costs including lower bonus expenses, professional fees and insurance costs. Stock-based compensation and bonus expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 include $6.9 million of deferred stock-based compensation and $1.8 million of transaction bonuses that were recognized in connection with the closing of the Business Combination. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase over the longer term, particularly after we potentially achieve quantum advantage, and plan to subsequently enhance our sales and service offerings, expand our customer base, and implement new marketing strategies. 45 Table of Contents Restructuring In February 2023, we announced an updated business strategy, including revisions to our technology roadmap. In connection with this updated strategy, we implemented a workforce reduction in order to focus the organization and our resources on nearer-term strategic priorities. The reduction in the workforce impacted approximately 50 employees or approximately 28% of our then workforce. Affected employees were offered separation benefits, including severance payments and temporary healthcare coverage assistance. We began implementing activities with respect to our revised business plan, updated technology roadmap and reduction in workforce in February 2023, resulting in a $1 million restructuring charge during the nine months ended September 30, 2023. No further restructuring charges related to this action are expected. Other income and (expense), net Interest expense Our outstanding debt carries a variable rate of interest. Interest expenses increased by an inconsequential amount during the three months ended September 30, 2023 and by $0.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, when compared to three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. We paid a higher rate of interest on our debt in 2023 due to the increases in the prime interest rate that occurred throughout 2023 and 2022. Interest income Interest income was $1.2 million and $3.7 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, up from $1.0 million and $1.2 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The increase in interest income is due to higher rates of interest earned on our investments, including cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities. We also had more excess cash to invest throughout all of 2023, due to the closing of the Business Combination and PIPE Financing in March 2022. We anticipate that interest income will decline in future periods due to our expected use of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities to fund our operating expenses, including research and development initiatives and investment in our technology roadmap. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities A discussion of the change in the fair value of warrant liabilities is included in Note 12 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The change in fair value of warrant liabilities during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, was an expense of $3.4 million and $4.3 million, compared to income of $8.1 million and $19.9 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The expense increase during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to the change in stock price and volatility. Change in Fair Value of Earn-Out Liabilities A discussion of the change in the fair value of the earn-out liabilities is included in Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The change in fair value of our earn-out liabilities during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 was an expense of $1.7 million and $2.4 million, compared to income of $4.9 million and $17.4 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The expense increase during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to the change in stock price and volatility. 46 Table of Contents Transaction Costs Transaction costs allocated to liability-classified instruments must be expensed as incurred. Changes in these instruments are subsequently measured at fair value through earnings. During the nine months ended September 30, 2022, transaction costs allocated to liability-classified instruments arising from the Business Combination totaled $0.9 million. No transaction costs were incurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, or the three months ended September 30, 2022. Provision for Income Taxes We did not record income tax expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 or the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 due to the Companys loss position and full valuation allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses since inception and negative cash flows from operations. Prior to the Business Combination, we financed our operations primarily through the issuance of preferred stock, warrants, convertible notes, venture backed debt and revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2022, and the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we incurred net losses of $71.5 million and $62.5 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $341.2 million, and we expect to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future. In connection with the closing of the Business Combination on March 2, 2022, we received net proceeds of $225.6 million. We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months, based on our current business plan, and expectations and assumptions considering current macroeconomic conditions. Based on our estimates and current business plan, we expect that we will need to obtain additional capital by early 2025, including any additional sales of common stock through our Common Stock Purchase Agreement with B. Riley or from other sources, in order to fund our research and development efforts and business objectives as currently planned. We cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. If we are unable to raise additional funding when needed and on attractive terms, we may be required to delay, limit or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. We have based these estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect, and future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the section under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Inflation and rising interest rates may result in an economic recession globally or in the U.S., which could lead to a reduction in product demand, a decrease in corporate capital expenditures, prolonged unemployment, labor shortages, reduction in consumer confidence, adverse geopolitical and macroeconomic events, or any similar negative economic condition. Economic conditions in some parts of the world have been worsening, with disruptions to, and volatility and uncertainty in, the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide resulting from the effects of inflation and rising interest rates. These conditions have been further exacerbated by recent and potential future disruptions in access to bank deposits or lending commitments due to bank failures, the ongoing military conflict involving Russia and Ukraine and sanctions related thereto, the state of war between Israel and Hamas and the related risk of a larger regional conflict. It is not possible at this time to estimate the long-term impact that these and related events could have on our business, as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If these conditions persist and deepen, we could experience an inability to access additional capital, or our liquidity could otherwise be impacted. If we are unable to raise capital when needed and on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and/or other efforts. A recession or additional market corrections resulting from the impact of difficult macroeconomic conditions, disruptions in the banking system could materially affect our business and the value of our securities. Our short-term cash requirements include capital expenditures for materials and components for research and development and quantum computing fridges; working capital requirements; and strategic collaborative arrangements and investments. Our long-term requirements include expenditures for our quantum chip fabrication facility; planned development of multiple generations of quantum processors; and anticipated additional investments to scale our QCaaS offering. 47 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash for expenditure as we invest in ongoing research and development and business operations. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from sales of QPUs, our development contracts and other services, including our QCaaS offering, we expect to finance our cash needs primarily through our existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments on hand, our Purchase Agreement with B. Riley (subject to the price of our Common Stock trading above $1.00 as described below in addition to other conditions and market considerations), and other potential securities financings or other capital sources, including the sale of QPUs, development contract revenue with government agencies and strategic partnerships. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, including through the use of our Purchase Agreement with B. Riley, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed and on attractive terms, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the section under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition, future sales, if any, of shares of our Common Stock to B. Riley pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by us from time to time, including, among other things, market conditions, the trading price of our Common Stock (including the condition that the price of our Common Stock is trading above $1.00) and determinations by us as to appropriate sources of funding for our business and operations. We cannot guarantee the extent to which we may utilize the Purchase Agreement. Loan and Security Agreement In January 2022, we entered into the Third Amendment to the Loan Agreement with Trinity to increase the debt commitment by $5.0 million to $32.0 million thereunder. The amendment allowed us to draw an additional $5.0 million immediately with an additional $8.0 million to be drawn at the sole discretion of the lender. We drew the additional $5.0 million upon signing the amendment. The Third Amendment also included an extension of the requirement to raise an additional $75.0 million of equity which was satisfied through the Business Combination and a defined exit fee for the additional $5.0 million to be at 20% of the advanced funds under the Third Amendment. In conjunction with the amendment, we also guaranteed payment of all monetary amounts owed and performance of all covenants, obligations and liabilities. As of September 30, 2023, the total principal amount outstanding under the Loan Agreement was $25.3 million. The Loan Agreement is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. As of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we are in compliance with all covenants under the Loan Agreement. Our cash commitments as of September 30, 2023 were primarily as follows (in thousands): Total Short-term Long-term Financing obligations $ 25,304 $ 12,435 $ 12,869 Estimated cash interest on financing obligations 5,209 3,150 2,059 Operating lease 8,917 2,212 6,705 $ 39,430 $ 17,797 $ 21,633 Financing obligations consist of payments related to the Loan and Security Agreement. Operating lease obligations consist of obligations under non-cancelable operating leases for our offices, facilities and equipment. The cash requirements in the table above are associated with contracts that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the actions under the contracts. The table does not include obligations under agreements that we can cancel without a significant penalty. 48 Table of Contents Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our ability to achieve significant growth to offset expenditures related to research and development, and selling, general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was $38.2 million, primarily resulting from our net loss of $62.5 million, partially offset by non-cash expenses totaling $24.9 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a minimal impact on net cash used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Net cash used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $48.5 million, primarily resulting from our net loss of $48.6 million, partially offset by non-cash expenses totaling $0.4 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a minimal impact on net cash used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Cash used in operating activities was reduced by $10.3 million to $38.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $48.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Our net loss from operations increased by $13.9 million to $62.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Non-cash charges impacting our net loss from operations increased by $24.5 million to $24.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $0.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a $0.3 million unfavorable impact on the change in cash used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 totaled $11.5 million, resulting from $98.1 million of maturities of available-for -sale securities, partially offset by $7.5 million of purchases of property and equipment and $79.0 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities. Cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 totaled $106.5 million, resulting from purchases of $19.3 million of property and equipment and $87.2 million of available-for-sale securities. Investments in property and equipment relate primarily to process computing equipment, quantum computing fridges, and development tools for our chip fabrication facility. Net cash provided by investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 improved by $118.7 million when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022, due to maturities of available-for-sale securities and decreased purchases of property and equipment and available-for-sale securities. Cash Flows Provided by Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 totaled $10.5 million, reflecting $15.1 million of proceeds from the sale of 8.2 million shares of common stock to B. Riley through the Purchase Agreement, and $1.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants, offset in part by principal payments of $5.4 million under the Loan Agreement and payments of $0.1 million for deferred financing costs. Cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 totaled $217.1 million, reflecting $225.6 million of proceeds from the Business Combination and PIPE Investment, net of transaction costs, and offset by Rigetti transaction costs of $18.4 million, additional proceeds from the issuance of debt and warrants of $5.0 million associated with the Third Amendment to the Loan Agreement, less debt issuance costs and exit fees totaling $1.1 million, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants of $6.0 million. 49 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 decreased by $206.5 million when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022, largely due to the close of the Business Combination and PIPE Investment, net of transaction costs, during the nine months ended September 30, 2022. We expect to continue to finance our cash needs primarily through cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments on hand, the Purchase Agreement with B. Riley (subject to the price of our Common Stock trading above $1.00 in addition to other conditions and market considerations), and other potential securities financings or capital sources. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgements and Estimates This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions that affect revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. While our significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, we believe the following critical accounting policies and estimates are most important to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Public and Private Warrants Prior to the Business Combination, SNII issued 4,450,000 private placement warrants (Private Warrants) and 8,625,000 public warrants (Public Warrants and collectively, Warrants). As of September 30, 2023, there were 13,074,972 Warrants outstanding, consisting of 3,969,727 Private Warrants and 9,105,245 Public Warrants. Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of our Common Stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustments and will expire five years after the Merger or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. The Private Warrants do not meet the derivative scope exception and are accounted for as derivative liabilities. Specifically, the Private Warrants contain provisions that cause the settlement amounts to be dependent upon the characteristics of the holder of the warrant which is not an input into the pricing of a fixed-for-fixed option on equity shares. Therefore, the Private Warrants are not considered indexed to our stock and should be classified as a liability. Since the Private Warrants meet the definition of a derivative, we recorded the Private Warrants as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value upon the closing of the Business Combination, with subsequent changes in the fair value recognized in the consolidated statements of operations at each reporting date. The fair value of the Private Warrants was measured using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at each measurement date. The Public Warrants also fail to meet the indexation guidance in ASC 815 and are accounted for as liabilities as the Public Warrants include a provision whereby in a scenario in which there is not an effective registration statement, the warrant holders have a cap, 0.361 shares of Common Stock per warrant (subject to adjustment), on the issuable number of shares in a cashless exercise. Subsequent to the separate listing and trading of the Public Warrants, the fair value of the Public Warrants has been measured based on the observable listed prices for such warrants and the fair value of the Private Warrants are measured using a Monte Carlo Pricing Model. On the consummation of the Business Combination, we recorded a liability related to the Private Warrants of $9.6 million, with an offsetting entry to additional paid-in capital. As of September 30, 2023, the fair value of the Private Warrants decreased to $3.8 million, with the change in fair value of the derivative warrant liabilities recorded in the consolidated statements of operations each reporting period. 50 Table of Contents Similarly, on the consummation of the Business Combination, we recorded a liability related to the Public Warrants of $16.3 million, with an offsetting entry to additional paid-in capital. As of September 30, 2023, the fair value of the Public Warrants decreased to $2.3 million with the change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities recorded in the consolidated statements of operations each reporting period. Other Derivative Warrant Liabilities We currently do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815) at the initial recognition date. Other than the Public Warrants and Private Warrants noted above, we also issued a total of 783,129 Trinity Warrants in conjunction with the Loan Agreement in 2021. Such derivative warrant liabilities are classified as non-current as their liquidation is not reasonably expected to require the use of current assets or require the creation of current liabilities. We utilized the Black-Scholes model to determine the inception date fair value of the warrants of approximately $2.7 million which was recorded as part of Debt Issuance Cost. The outstanding Common Stock warrants were subsequently remeasured at each reporting period using the Black-Scholes model with the change in fair value recorded as a component of other income in the Companys consolidated statements of operations. On June 2, 2022, the 783,129 Trinity Warrants were exercised and the $6.4 million warrant liability was reclassified to equity. We recorded a loss of $2.0 million from the change in the fair value of the warrant liability for the year ended December 31, 2022. Earn-Out Liabilities At Business Combination Closing, Supernova Sponsor subjected certain shares (Sponsor Vesting Shares) of Common Stock held by Supernova Sponsor and its permitted transferees (the Sponsor Holders) to forfeiture and vesting as of the Closing if thresholds related to the weighted average price of Common Stock are not met for the duration of various specified consecutive day trading periods during the five-year period following the Closing (the Earn-out Triggering Events). Any such shares held by the Sponsor Holders that remain unvested after the fifth anniversary of the Closing will be forfeited. The Sponsor Vesting Shares are accounted for as liability classified instruments because the Earn-Out Triggering Events that determine the number of Sponsor Vesting Shares to be earned back by the Sponsor Holders include outcomes that are not solely indexed to our Common Stock. The aggregate fair value of the Sponsor Vesting Shares at the time of the Business Combination Closing was estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model and was determined to be $20.4 million. As of September 30, 2023, the Earn-Out Triggering Events were not achieved for any of the tranches, and as such, the Company adjusted the carrying amount of the liability to its estimated fair value of $3.6 million with the change in fair value of the earn-out liability recorded in the consolidated statements of operations each reporting period. Forward Warrant Agreement In connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement in October 2021, we entered into the Forward Warrant Agreement with Ampere for the purchase of a warrant for an aggregate purchase price (including amounts from exercise) of $10.0 million. The Forward Warrant Agreement provides for the issuance of a warrant for the purchase of an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.0001. The purchase of the warrant was conditioned upon, among other things, the consummation of the Business Combination and the entry into a collaboration agreement between Ampere and us. The collaboration agreement was entered into in January 2022. Ampere was required to pay $5.0 million to us no later than the later of (i) the Closing and (ii) June 30, 2022. 51 Table of Contents On June 30, 2022, pursuant to the Forward Warrant Agreement, we issued the warrant to Ampere upon receipt of an aggregate of $5.0 million (including the exercise price), and upon such payment and issuance, 500,000 shares of our Common Stock vested under the warrant and were immediately exercised by Ampere pursuant to the terms of the warrant. Ampere was required to pay an additional $5.0 million to us no later than the closing date of the listing of Amperes capital stock on a stock exchange, provided that if the listing had not occurred by the second anniversary of the Forward Warrant Agreement (October 6, 2023), Ampere was not obligated to make the additional payment and we were not obligated to issue the remaining shares underlying the warrants The Forward Warrant Agreement has now expired, and Ampere no longer has an obligation to make the additional $5.0 million payment. The Forward Warrant Agreement further provides that we will use commercially reasonable efforts to file a registration statement to register the resale of the shares. We filed such registration statement, and it became effective in the year ended December 31, 2022. We evaluated the Forward Warrant Agreement as a derivative in accordance with the guidance of ASC 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. We calculated the fair value of the Forward Warrant Agreement by using the Forward Contract Pricing methodology at inception. The fair value of the Forward Warrant Agreement was estimated based on the following key inputs and assumptions 1) Assumed holding period 2) Related risk-free rate and 3) Likelihood of the outcome of the various contingencies specified in the agreement. Based on these inputs and assumptions, we calculated the fair value of the Forward Warrant Agreement to be $2.2 million as of December 31, 2022. We have included the derivative as a forward contract asset in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2022. In the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we reduced the estimated probability of occurrence for the Forward Warrant Agreement from 50% to 0% because we determined that Amperes obligation to pay the additional $5.0 million pursuant to the Forward Warrant Agreement would expire. The change in the fair value of the Forward Warrant Agreement is recorded as part of selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of operations each reporting period. Revenue Recognition Revenue consists primarily of our contracts that provide access to Rigetti quantum computing systems, collaborative research services, professional services, and the sale of QPUs and custom quantum computing components. Access to Rigetti quantum computing systems can be purchased as a quantum computing subscription, or on a usage basis for a specified quantity of hours. Revenue related to subscription-based access to Rigetti quantum computing systems (i.e., quantum computing subscriptions) is recognized on a ratable basis over the subscription term, which can range from six months to two years. Revenue related to usage-based access to Rigetti quantum computing systems is recognized over time as the systems are accessed using an output method based on compute credit hours expended. Revenue related to collaborative research services and professional services is recognized over time based on completed milestones or hours or costs incurred as appropriate. Revenue for partially completed milestones deemed probable of being met is recognized using an input measure based on actual labor hours incurred to date relative to total estimated labor hours needed to complete the milestone. Revenue related to cost share contracts is recognized as the reimbursable costs are incurred. For fixed price milestone-based contracts, revenue is recognized based on the input measure explained above as control is expected to transfer over the time period a milestone is completed. Revenue related to the sale of QPUs and custom quantum computing components is recognized at a point in time, and upon customer acceptance for custom quantum computing components. 52 Table of Contents Our fixed fee development contracts vary in term from one to five years, with the majority of such contracts having a term of 18 months to two years. When establishing the pricing for our fixed fee arrangements, we determine the pricing based on estimated costs to complete and expected margins taking into account the scope of work outlined within the contract being evaluated and our historical experience with similar services and contracts. Actual costs incurred over the period in which these contracts are fulfilled could vary from these estimates and therefore, these estimates are subject to uncertainty. On a quarterly basis, management reviews the progress with respect to each contract and its related milestones and evaluates whether any changes in estimates exist. As a result of the quarterly reviews, revisions in the estimated effort to complete the contract are reflected in the period in which the change is identified. These revisions may impact the overall progress related to transfer of control and therefore result in either increases or decreases in revenues as well as increases or decreases in fulfillment costs and contract margins. In accordance, with ASC No. 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, any changes in estimates are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations in the period in which the circumstances that give rise to the revision become known to management. To date, we have not experienced any changes in estimates that have had a material impact on our results from operations or financial position. When our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated on a relative standalone selling price basis to each performance obligation. We typically determine standalone selling price based on observable selling prices of our products and services. In instances where standalone selling price is not directly observable, standalone selling price is determined using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. Stand-alone selling price is typically established as a range. In situations in which the stated contract price for a performance obligation is outside of the applicable standalone selling price range and has a different pattern of transfer to the customer than the other performance obligations in the contract, we will reallocate the total transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods and services to the customer. Revenue is recorded based on the transaction price, which includes fixed consideration and estimates of variable consideration. The amount of variable consideration included in the transaction price is constrained and is included only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Our contracts with customers may include renewal or other options at fixed prices. Determining whether such options are considered distinct performance obligations that provide the customer with a material right and therefore should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each renewal option to determine whether the renewal pricing is reflective of standalone selling price or is reflective of a discount that would provide the customer with a material right. Based on our assessment of standalone selling prices, we determined that there were no significant material rights provided to our customers requiring separate recognition. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements A description of recently issued accounting pronouncements that may potentially impact our financial position and results of operations is disclosed in Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended September 30, 2023 included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status In April 2012, the JOBS Act was enacted. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Therefore, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Following the Business Combination, we still qualify as an emerging growth company and plan to take advantage of the extended transition period that emerging growth company status permits. During the extended transition period, it may be difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that complies with public company effective dates for accounting standard updates because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. 53 Table of Contents We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2026, the last day of our first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of SNIIs initial public offering, (b) the last day of our fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.24 billion, (c) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC with at least $700.0 million of outstanding securities held by non-affiliates or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three years. We are also a smaller reporting company as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We may take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies and will be able to take advantage of these scaled disclosures for so long as the market value of our voting and non-voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or our annual revenue is less than $100 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our voting and non-voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates is less than $700 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter.