ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, will, continue, project, forecast, goal, should, could, would, potential, and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as updated under Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For purposes of this discussion, Rigetti, the Company, we, us or our refer to Rigetti Computing, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. Overview We build quantum computers and the superconducting quantum processors that power them. We believe quantum computing represents one of the most transformative emerging capabilities in the world today. By leveraging quantum mechanics, we believe our quantum computers process information in fundamentally new, more powerful ways than classical computers. When scaled, it is anticipated that these systems will be poised to solve problems of staggering computational complexity at unprecedented speed. With the goal of unlocking this opportunity, we have developed the worlds first multi-chip quantum processor for scalable quantum computing systems. We believe that this patented and patent pending, modular chip architecture is the building block for new generations of quantum processors that we expect to achieve a clear advantage over classical computers. Our long-term business model centers on revenue generated from sales of quantum processing units (QPUs) and quantum computing systems made accessible via the cloud in the form of Quantum Computing as a Service (QCaaS) products. However, the substantial majority of our revenues are derived from development contracts, and we anticipate this market opportunity will continue to represent an important source of revenue for at least the next several years as we work to ramp up sales of QPUs and our QCaaS business. Additionally, we are working to further develop a revenue stream and forging important customer relationships by entering into technology development contracts with various partners. We are a vertically integrated company. We operate Fab-1, a wafer fabrication facility dedicated to prototyping and producing our quantum processors. Through Fab-1, we own the means of production of our breakthrough multi-chip quantum processor technology. We leverage our chips through a full-stack product development approach, from quantum chip design and manufacturing through cloud delivery. We believe this full-stack development approach offers both the fastest and lowest risk path to building commercially valuable quantum computers. We have been generating revenue since 2018 through partnerships with government agencies and commercial organizations; however, we have incurred significant operating losses since inception. Our net losses were $201.0 million and $75.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. We incurred an operating loss for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We expect to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future as we invest in research, development, and infrastructure consistent with our long-term business strategy. As of March 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $512.1 million. Based on our forecasts, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and available for sale investments should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plan, and expectations and assumptions considering current macroeconomic conditions. Our operating plans may change because of factors currently unknown, and we may need to seek additional funds sooner than planned, through public or private equity or debt financing or other sources, such as strategic collaborations or other transactions. In addition, we may seek additional capital even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for current or future operating plans. 26 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2024, we announced the launch of our 84-qubit Ankaa-3 system, our newest flagship quantum computer featuring an extensive hardware redesign. We also achieved major two-qubit gate fidelity milestones with Ankaa-3: successfully halving error rates in 2024 to achieve a 99.0% median two-qubit iSWAP gate fidelity, as well as demonstrating a 99.5% median two-qubit fidelity with fSim gates. For more information on iSWAP gate fidelity and fSIM gates, see the section entitled Our TechnologyOur Superconducting Quantum ProcessorsFidelity in Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. In 2025, we plan to introduce the next generation of our modular system architecture, while aiming to continue to increase fidelities. By mid-year 2025, we expect to release a 36-qubit system based on four 9-qubit chips tiled together, with a targeted 2x reduction in error rates from our error rates achieved at the end of 2024. By the end of 2025, we expect to release a system with over 100 qubits with a targeted 2x reduction in error rates from our error rates achieved at the end of 2024. We believe that we will be able to achieve our plans for 2025 described above and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q; however, we face various risks and uncertainties relating to our business that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations stated herein. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the section entitled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as updated under Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Quanta Collaboration Agreement In February 2025, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Rigetti Sub, entered into a Collaboration Agreement with Quanta, whereby the parties may enter into written statements of work from time to time pursuant to which Quanta will develop Covered Components listed in such statement of work that meet the specifications and requirements provided by Rigetti Sub. Covered Components may include control systems, dilution refrigerators, flexible cables, and select other non-QPU components suitable for Rigetti Subs quantum computing products. No statements of work were entered into by the parties in connection with the entry into the Collaboration Agreement. In addition, the parties have each agreed to invest at least $250 million over the next five years in the field of quantum computing (and Quantas investment will be towards personnel and capital expenditures for developing products and services and manufacturing capability in furtherance of the Rigetti Sub product roadmap). No equity or joint venture was formed under the Collaboration Agreement and costs by the Company incurred under the Collaboration Agreement will be accounted for in accordance with GAAP as incurred. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we will retain all rights, title and ownership to all QPU Technology (as defined in the Collaboration Agreement) and related intellectual property (IP) rights created in the course of activities specified in a statement of work under the Collaboration Agreement. Other than the QPU Technology and IP rights described above, to the extent there is any jointly created, invented or other developed technology in the course of the performance of activities specified in a statement of work under the Collaboration Agreement, the Company and Quanta will jointly own, and each party will hold a one-half undivided interest in, all such joint project technology and all newly-created or newly-arising IP rights with respect thereto. In connection with the Collaboration Agreement, on February 27, 2025, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Quanta, pursuant to which we agreed to sell and issue to Quanta in a private placement transaction 3,020,412 shares of our Common Stock at a price per share of approximately $11.59, for an aggregate value of approximately $35.0 million. The private placement transaction, which was subject to regulatory clearance, closed on April 29, 2025. Macroeconomic Considerations Results of our operations have varied and may continue to vary based on the impact of changes in the domestic or global economy. Negative conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, inflation, interest rates, financial and credit market fluctuations, supply chain constraints, international trade policies including tariffs and export controls, national security interests, pandemics, political turmoil, natural catastrophes, warfare, and terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, could negatively affect our business, including progress toward the development of quantum computing by increasing the cost of materials and components and our operating costs. It is not possible at this time to estimate the long-term impact that these and related events could have on our business, as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If these conditions persist and deepen, we could experience an inability to access additional capital if needed, or our liquidity could otherwise be impacted, and the trading price of our Common Stock could decline. 27 Table of Contents For further discussion of the potential impacts of macroeconomic events on our business, financial condition, and operating results, see the section titled Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, including the risk factor titled Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue through our development contracts, as well as from our sales of QPUs, and our QCaaS offerings and other services including training and provision of quantum computing components. Development contracts are generally multi-year, non-recurring arrangements pursuant to which we provide professional services regarding collaborative research in practical applications of quantum computing to technology and business problems within the customers industry or organization and assists the customer in developing quantum algorithms and applications to assist customers in areas of business interest. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of all direct and indirect costs associated with sales of QPUs, QCaaS offerings and development contracts and other services, including materials, employee costs for program management and personnel associated with the delivery of goods and services to customers, and sub-contract costs for work performed by third parties. Cost of revenue also includes an allocation of facility costs, depreciation and amortization directly related to the development contracts and QCaaS offerings and other services. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses primarily consist of research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and Development Research and development expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, outside consultant fees, facility costs, depreciation and amortization, materials and components purchased for research and development. We expect research and development expenses to increase as we continue to invest in quantum computing and the superconducting quantum processors needed for quantum computers. We do not currently capitalize any research and development expenditures. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, insurance, facility costs, professional service fees, and other general overhead costs other than those associated with sales of QPUs and providing development contracts, QCaaS offerings and other services. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as we grow our business, particularly to the extent we are able to demonstrate the usefulness of quantum computers and achieve broad quantum advantage, and subsequently enhance our product and service offerings, expand our customer base, and implement new marketing strategies. Provision for Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three months ended March 31, 2025 vs. 2024 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 1,472 $ 3,052 $ (1,580) (52) % Cost of revenue 1,030 1,552 (522) (34) % Total gross profit 442 1,500 (1,058) (71) % Operating expenses: Research and development 15,455 11,471 3,984 35 % Selling, general and administrative 6,619 6,614 5 NM % Total operating expenses 22,074 18,085 3,989 22 % Loss from operations (21,632) (16,585) (5,047) 30 % Other income (expense), net Interest expense (1,107) 1,107 (100) % Interest income 2,152 1,123 1,029 92 % Change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities 53,262 (2,583) 55,845 (2,162) % Change in fair value of earn-out liabilities 8,837 (1,621) 10,458 (645) % Total other income (expense), net 64,251 (4,188) 68,439 (1,634) % Net income (loss) before provision for income taxes 42,619 (20,773) 63,392 (305) % Provision for income taxes Net income (loss) $ 42,619 $ (20,773) $ 63,392 *NM Not Meaningful Revenue Revenue decreased by $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was mainly due to a $1.5 million reduction in revenue from collaborative research and professional services contracts. Our revenue has been negatively impacted by expiration of the National Quantum Initiative Act in September 2023 and its pending reauthorization in the United States Congress. Our development contracts are typically fixed price milestone or cost share-based contracts and the timing and amounts of revenue recognized in any given period will vary significantly based on the delivery of the associated milestones and/or the work performed. The timing and delivery of sales of QPUs and QCaaS will also vary and impact revenue in any given quarterly or annual period. Revenue is expected to vary in terms of timing and size, resulting in significant fluctuations in revenue levels in future periods. For the next few years, we expect much of our revenue to be generated from development contracts and anticipated sales of on-premises QPUs. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in cost of revenue during the current period was primarily due to lower revenue, partially offset by an unfavorable revenue mix. Our cost of revenue and gross margins are impacted by the composition of our revenue and variability in the pricing and terms of our development contracts. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recognized revenue and cost of revenue from a contract to deliver a 24-qubit quantum computing system which has higher costs and a lower gross margin profile than most of our other contracts. We expect that cost of revenue and total gross profit as a percentage of revenue will vary in future quarterly and annual periods due to changes in the composition of our revenue and variability in the pricing and terms of our development contracts. 29 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, was mainly due to a $2.1 million increase in salaries and employee related costs, a $1.1 million increase in stock-based compensation and a $0.4 million increase in consulting charges. All other expenses increased by $0.4 million. The increase in salaries and employee related costs was due to annual salary increases, new hires, higher FICA taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock units and the increase in our stock price and a reduction in the amount of engineering time used to deliver revenue. The increase in stock-based compensation was mainly due to employee spot bonuses paid with restricted stock units. More consultants were used in the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. We anticipate that research and development expenditures will grow in the future as we continue to focus on our technology roadmap and long-term goal of achieving broad quantum advantage. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. When comparing the three months ended March 31, 2025 to the three months ended March 31, 2024, increases in salaries and employee related costs of $0.1 million and legal costs of $0.7 million, mostly attributable to the Quanta Collaboration Agreement, were offset by a decrease in facilities costs of $0.7 million and all other costs of $0.1 million. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase over the longer term, particularly after we potentially achieve quantum advantage, and plan to subsequently enhance our sales and service offerings, expand our customer base, and implement new marketing strategies. Other income and (expense), net Interest expense Interest expenses decreased by $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The reduction in interest expense was due to the prepayment of our outstanding debt with Trinity Capital Inc. in December 2024. A discussion regarding the debt prepayment is included in Note 6 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2025, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Interest income Interest income was $2.2 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and the three months ended March 31, 2024, respectively. The increase in interest income during the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, was due to an increase in the balances of our invested cash and available-for-sale investments resulting from our equity offerings in late 2024, and fluctuations in the rates of interest earned on our investments. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities A discussion of the change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities is included in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2025, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The change in fair value of our warrant liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was a gain of $53.3 million, compared to a loss of $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The gain for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to the change in our stock price and related share price volatility. Change in Fair Value of Earn-Out Liabilities A discussion of the change in the fair value of the earn-out liabilities is included in Note 8 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2025, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 30 Table of Contents The change in fair value of our earn-out liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was a gain of $8.8 million, compared to a loss of $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The gain for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to the change in our stock price and related share price volatility. Provision for Income Taxes We have incurred a cumulative pre-tax loss for the past three years. We expect to continue to incur losses for income tax purposes for the foreseeable future, and will continue to carry a full valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets. Accordingly, we did not record an income tax provision for either the three months ended March 31, 2025 or the three months ended March 31, 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses and negative cash flows since inception. Historically, we financed our operations primarily through the sale and issuance of Common Stock, preferred stock, warrants, convertible notes, debt and revenues. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, we incurred net losses of $201.0 million and $75.1 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $512.1 million, and we expect to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future. We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plan, and expectations and assumptions considering current macroeconomic conditions. Our operating plan may change because of factors currently unknown, including factors described herein, and we may need to seek additional funds sooner than planned, through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources, such as strategic collaborations or other transactions. In addition, we may seek additional capital even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for current or future operating plans. We have based these estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect, and future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors including those described in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as updated under Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If we are unable to raise capital when needed and on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and/or other efforts. A recession or market corrections resulting from the impact of macroeconomic conditions could materially affect our business and the value of our securities. Our cash requirements include employee-related costs such as salaries and benefits; materials and components for research and development; working capital requirements; capital expenditures for our quantum chip fabrication facility; quantum computing refrigerators and other requirements; planned development of multiple generations of quantum processors; anticipated investments to scale our operations in the future; and strategic collaborative arrangements and investments. In the longer term, we will require a significant amount of cash for expenditure as we invest in ongoing research and development and business operations, including with respect to the Collaboration Agreement with Quanta, pursuant to which we are required to invest at least $250.0 million in the field of quantum computing in furtherance of our product roadmap over a five year period commencing on February 27, 2025. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from sales of QPUs, our development contracts and other services, including our QCaaS offering, we expect to finance our cash needs primarily through our existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments, potential securities financings or other capital sources. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed and on attractive terms, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the section under Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as updated under Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, interest rates and impacts from government policy and actions, such as international trade restrictions and policies, may have adverse consequences, which may result in an economic recession globally or in the U.S., which could lead to a reduction in product demand, a decrease in corporate capital expenditures, prolonged unemployment, labors shortages, reduction in consumer confidence, adverse geopolitical and macroeconomic events, or any similar negative economic 31 Table of Contents condition. In addition, macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions may lead to disruptions to, and volatility and uncertainty in, the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide. Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our ability to achieve significant growth to offset expenditures related to research and development, and selling, general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $13.7 million, primarily resulting from non-cash expenses totaling $57.1 million, partially offset by our net income of $42.6 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a $0.9 million positive impact on net cash used in operating activities during three months ended March 31, 2025. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $13.1 million, primarily resulting from our net loss of $20.8 million, partially offset by non-cash income totaling $8.8 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities had a $1.2 million negative impact on net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cash used in operating activities increased by $0.6 million to $13.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $13.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. We recorded net income of $42.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a $63.4 million improvement when compared to the net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024, mostly due to non-cash changes in the fair value of derivative warrant and earn-out liabilities. Non-cash expenses impacting our net income increased by $65.9 million to $57.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025, when compared to non-cash income of $8.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Operating assets and liabilities had a $2.1 million favorable impact on the change in cash used in operating activities for three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cash Flows (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 totaled $23.6 million, resulting from $44.1 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities and $2.5 million of purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $23.0 million of maturities of available-for-sale securities. Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 totaled $6.2 million, resulting from $39.0 million of maturities of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by $27.3 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities and $5.5 million of purchases of property and equipment. Investments in property and equipment relate primarily to process computing equipment, quantum computing refrigerators, and development tools for our chip fabrication facility. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 increased by $29.8 million, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to an increase in purchases of available-for-sale securities and a decrease in maturities of available-for-sale securities offset by a decrease in purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows Provided by Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 totaled $6.9 million. We received proceeds of $6.3 million from tax withholdings on sell-to-cover tax equity award transactions, proceeds of $0.3 million from the exercise of stock options and proceeds of $0.4 million the exercise of warrants. We paid $0.1 million for deferred offering costs. Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 totaled $20.7 million. We received net proceeds of $12.8 million from the sale of 10,056,799 shares of Common Stock to B. Riley through our prior Purchase Agreement and net proceeds of $11.0 million from the sale of 6,645,982 shares of Common Stock pursuant to our prior ATM program. Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock were offset in part by principal payments of $3.0 million under our prior loan agreement with Trinity Capital, Inc. and payments of $0.2 million for deferred offering costs. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased by $13.8 million, when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to proceeds received during the three months ended March 31, 2024 from the sale of Common Stock through our prior Purchase Agreement with B. Riley and our prior ATM program totaling $23.9 million, offset in part by proceeds of $6.3 million received during the three months ended March 31, 2025 from tax 32 Table of Contents withholdings on sell-to-cover tax equity award transactions, an increase in proceeds of $0.7 million from the exercise of stock options and warrants and a $3.0 million reduction in payments of principal of notes payable due to the prepayment of our outstanding debt with Trinity Capital Inc. in December 2024. Contractual Obligations and Contingencies See Note 16 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements located in Part I Financial Information, Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for a description of our contractual obligations and contingencies. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgements and Estimates This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions pertaining to revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates from those described under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Critical accounting estimates are defined as those reflective of significant judgments, estimates and uncertainties, which may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, we have disclosed our critical accounting estimates that we believe have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements A description of recently issued accounting pronouncements that may potentially impact our financial position and results of operations is disclosed in Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2025 included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status In April 2012, the JOBS Act was enacted. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Therefore, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Following the Business Combination, we still qualify as an emerging growth company and plan to take advantage of the extended transition period that emerging growth company status permits. During the extended transition period, it may be difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that complies with public company effective dates for accounting standard updates because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2026, (b) the last date of our fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.235 billion, (c) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three years. We are also a smaller reporting company as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We may take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies and will be able to take advantage of these scaled disclosures for so long as the market value of our voting and non-voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or our annual revenue is less than $100.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our voting and non-voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates is less than $700.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter. 33 Table of Contents