Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report). This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words believe, plan, intend, anticipate, target, estimate, expect, will, continue, project, and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions (will, may, could, should, etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those we describe under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors. For purposes of this discussion, Rigetti, the Company, we, us or our refer to Rigetti Computing, Inc. and its unless the context otherwise requires. Overview On March 2, 2022 (the Closing Date), we consummated the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 6, 2021, as amended on December 23, 2021 and January 10, 2022 (as amended, the Merger Agreement), by and among Supernova Partners Acquisition Company II, Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted company (Supernova), Supernova Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Supernova (the First Merger Sub), Supernova Romeo Merger Sub, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Supernova (the Second Merger Sub), and Rigetti Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Legacy Rigetti). As contemplated by the Merger Agreement, on March 1, 2022 Supernova was domesticated as a Delaware corporation and changed its name to Rigetti Computing, Inc. (the Domestication). On the Closing Date, (i) First Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Rigetti, the separate corporate existence of First Merger Sub ceased and Legacy Rigetti survived as a wholly owned subsidiary of Rigetti Computing, Inc. (the Surviving Corporation and, such merger, the First Merger), and (ii) immediately following the First Merger, the Surviving Corporation merged with and into the Second Merger Sub, the separate corporate existence of the Surviving Corporation ceased and Second Merger Sub survived as a wholly owned subsidiary of Rigetti Computing, Inc. and changed its name to Rigetti Intermediate LLC (such merger transaction, the Second Merger and, together with the First Merger, the Merger, and, collectively with the Domestication, the PIPE Financing (as defined below) and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Business Combination). The closing of the Business Combination is herein referred to as the Closing. We build quantum computers and the superconducting quantum processors that power them. We believe our quantum computing represents one of the most transformative emerging capabilities in the world today. By leveraging quantum mechanics, our quantum computers process information in fundamentally new, more powerful ways than classical computers. When scaled, it is anticipated that these systems will be poised to solve problems of staggering computational complexity at unprecedented speed. With the goal of unlocking this opportunity, we have developed the worlds first multi-chip quantum processor for scalable quantum computing systems. We believe that this patented and patent pending, modular chip architecture is the building block for new generations of quantum processors that we expect to achieve a clear advantage over classical computers. Our long-term business model centers on revenue generated from quantum computing systems made accessible via the cloud in the form of Quantum Computing as a Service (QCaaS) products. However, the substantial majority of our revenues is derived from development contracts, and we anticipate this to persist over at least the next several years as we work to ramp up our QCaaS business. Additionally, we are working to further develop a revenue stream and forging important customer relationships by entering into technology development contracts with various partners. We are a vertically integrated company. We own and operate Fab-1, a dedicated and integrated laboratory and manufacturing facility, through which we own the means of producing our breakthrough multi-chip quantum processor technology. We leverage its chips through a full-stack product development approach, from quantum chip design and manufacturing through cloud delivery. We believe this full-stack development approach offers both the fastest and lowest risk path to building commercially valuable quantum computers. We have been generating revenue since 2018 through partnerships with government agencies and commercial organizations; however, we have not yet generated profits and have incurred significant operating losses since inception. Our net losses were $10.5 million and $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. As we expect to continue to invest in research and development infrastructure, we expect to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future in line with its long-term business strategy. As of March 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $217.6 million. 29 Table of Contents The Business Combination and PIPE Financing On October 6, 2021, SNII entered into the Merger Agreement by and among Supernova, First Merger Sub, Second Merger Sub, and Legacy Rigetti. On March 2, 2022, the Business Combination was consummated. While the legal acquirer in the Merger Agreement was Supernova, for financial accounting and reporting purposes under United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), Rigetti was the accounting acquirer and the Merger was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization. A reverse recapitalization does not result in a new basis of accounting, and financial statements of Rigetti represent the continuation of the financial statements of Legacy Rigetti in many respects. Under this method of accounting, Supernova was treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. For accounting purposes, Rigetti was deemed to be the accounting acquirer in the transaction and, consequently, the transaction was treated as a recapitalization of Rigetti (i.e., a capital transaction involving the issuance of stock by Supernova for the stock of Rigetti). As a result of the Business Combination, each share of Legacy Rigetti common stock (including Legacy Rigetti common stock resulting from the Legacy Rigetti preferred stock conversion) was converted into the right to receive an aggregate of 78,959,579 shares of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Common Stock). Additionally, each issued and outstanding shares of Supernova Class A and Class B common stock held by Supernova automatically converted to 20,209,462 shares of Common Stock (of which 3,059,273 shares are subject to vesting under certain conditions). Upon consummation of the Business Combination, the most significant change in our reported financial position and results of operations was an increase in cash of $208.9 million (as compared to Rigettis balance sheet at December 31, 2021), including $225.6 million of proceeds from the Business Combination and PIPE Financing net against SNII transaction costs of $38.1 million. Generally, costs (e.g., SPAC shares) are recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. Costs allocated to liability-classified instruments that are subsequently measured at fair value through earnings (e.g., certain SPAC warrants) are expensed. Additional direct and incremental transaction costs were also incurred by Rigetti in connection with the Business Combination. Generally, costs (e.g., SPAC shares) are recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. Costs allocated to liability-classified instruments that are subsequently measured at fair value through earnings (e.g., certain SPAC warrants) are expensed. Rigettis transaction costs totaled $20.65 million, of which $19.75 million was allocated to equity-classified instruments and recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital, and the remaining $0.9 million was allocated to liability-classified instruments that are subsequently measured at fair value through earnings and recognized as expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2022. As a result of the Business Combination, we became subject to the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market, which will necessitate us to hire additional personnel and implement procedures and processes to address such public company requirements. We expect to incur additional ongoing expenses as a public company for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees, and additional internal and external accounting, legal and administrative resources. Our future results of consolidated operations and financial position may not be comparable to historical results as a result of the Business Combination. COVID-19 Update The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve rapidly and we intend to continue to monitor it closely. The evolution of the virus is unpredictable and any resurgence may slow down our ability to develop our quantum computing products and related services. The COVID-19 pandemic could limit the ability of suppliers and business partners to perform, including third-party suppliers ability to provide components, services and materials. We may also experience an increase in the cost of raw materials. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. As such, the full magnitude of the pandemics effect on our financial condition, liquidity and future results of operations is uncertain. Management continues to actively monitor our financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry and workforce. Impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, some of which we have already experienced, include those described throughout the Risk Factors included in this Report, including the risk factor titled A pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease in the United States or worldwide could adversely affect our business . 30 Table of Contents Change in Fiscal Year In October 2021, our board of directors approved a change to our fiscal year-end from January 31 to December 31, effective December 31, 2021. We believe the year-end change is important and useful to our financial statement users to allow for increased comparability with our industry peers. As a result of this change, our fiscal year now begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year, starting on January 1, 2022. Year-over-year quarterly financial data has been and will continue to be recast to be comparative with the new fiscal quarter ends in the new fiscal year. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue through our development contracts, as well as from our QCaaS offerings and other services including training and provision of quantum computing components. Development contracts are generally multi-year, non-recurring arrangements pursuant to which we provide professional services regarding collaborative research in practical applications of quantum computing to technology and business problems within the customers industry or organization and assists the customer in developing quantum algorithms and applications to assist customer in areas of business interest. QCaaS revenue is recognized on a ratable basis over the contract term or on a usage basis, which generally ranges from three months to two years. Revenue related to development contracts and other services is recognized as the related milestones are completed or over time, as the work required to complete these milestones is completed. Revenue related to the sale of custom quantum computing components is recognized at a point in time upon acceptance by the customer. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of all direct and indirect cost associated with providing QCaaS offerings and development contracts and other services, including employee salaries and employee related costs, including compensation, bonuses, employee taxes and benefit costs of program management and personnel associated with the delivery of goods and services to customers. Cost of revenue also includes an allocation of facility costs, depreciation and amortization directly related to providing the QCaaS offerings and development contracts and other services. We expect cost of revenue to increase as we continue to expand on our operations, enhance our service offerings and expand our customer base. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, general and administrative and research and development expenses. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, outside consultant fees, allocation of facility costs, depreciation and amortization, materials and components purchased for research and development. We expect research and development expenses to increase as we invest in the enhancement of our product offerings. We do not currently capitalize any research and development expenditures. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation including stock-based compensation, employee benefits of sales and marketing employees, outside consultants fees, travel and marketing and promotion costs. We expect selling and marketing expenses to increase as we continue to expand on our operations, enhance our service offerings, expand our customer base, and implement new marketing strategies. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses include compensation, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, legal, insurance, finance administration and human resources, an allocation of facility costs (including leases), bad debt costs, professional service fees, and an allocation of other general overhead costs including depreciation and amortization to support our operations, which consist of operations other than associated with providing QCaaS offerings and development contracts and other services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase as we continue to grow our business. We also expect to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company. 31 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (In thousands) Revenue: $ 2,104 $ 2,360 $ (256 ) -11 % Cost of revenue 414 273 141 52 % Total gross profit 1,690 2,087 (397 ) -19 % Operating expenses: Research and development 12,449 6,934 5,515 80 % Sales and marketing 1,475 312 1,163 373 % General and administrative 11,560 2,521 9,039 359 % Total operating expenses 25,484 9,767 15,717 161 % Loss from operations (23,794 ) (7,680 ) (16,114 ) 210 % Other (expense) income, net: Interest (expense) (1,205 ) (77 ) (1,128 ) nm Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 5,822 5,822 nm Change in fair value of earn-out liability 9,634 9,634 nm Transaction cost (927 ) (927 ) nm Other income (30 ) 30 -100 % Total other (expense) income, net 13,324 (107 ) 14,559 Net loss before provision for income taxes (10,470 ) (7,787 ) (2,683 ) Provision for income taxes Net loss $ (10,470 ) $ (7,787 ) $ (2,683 ) Revenue Revenue decreased $0.3 million, or 11%, to $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The period over period change is primarily attributable to the completion of the first phase of a large government agency project of $1.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021, partially offset by the expansion in scope of U.S. and U.K. government agency projects of $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. These development contracts are fixed price milestone or cost share-based contracts and the timing and amounts of revenue recognized in each quarter will therefore vary based on the delivery of the associated milestones and/ or the work performed. We expect to continue to generate the majority of our revenue from development contracts over at least the next several years and that revenue will be variable in timing and size, as we work to ramp up our QCaaS business for the longer term. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased $0.1 million, or 52%, to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was mainly attributable to an increase in employee-related costs of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022. We expect the costs to increase as we seek to expand headcount and increase subcontract costs related to our collaborative development contract services work with government agencies. In addition, we expect to incur increased costs associated with equipment, system components and labor global economic conditions, including inflation, labor shortages and supply conditions. 32 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased by $5.5 million, or 80%, to $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $6.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to: a $3.6 million increase in employee related costs in the three months ended March 31, 2022 due to an increase in headcount and resulting wage costs of $1.5 million, a $0.5 million increase due to the increase in stock compensation expense, and a one-time cumulative recognition of previously deferred stock compensation expense of $1.6 million related to the satisfaction of the liquidity condition with respect to outstanding stock units recognized as a result of the close of the Business Combination; and a $1.9 million increase in material and software subscription costs due to continued and expanded investment in research and development efforts. We expect research and development expenses to increase as we continue to invest in the enhancement of our product offerings, including with respect to cost of building QPU fridges, quantum chip fabrication costs and general salaries and wages. In addition, we expect to incur increased research and development expenses due to increasing costs of labor, equipment and components as a result of inflation, labor shortages and supply conditions. As a result of these factors, combined with lower than anticipated proceeds raised in the Business Combination, we expect the timelines for the development of our 1,000 and 4,000 qubit systems to increase. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.2 million, or 373%, to $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by a $1.1 million increase in employee related costs of $0.7 million due to increase in headcount and resulting wages and $0.4 million due to a one-time cumulative recognition of previously deferred stock compensation expense of $1.6 million related to the vested restricted stock units recognized as a result of the close of the Business Combination. We expect selling and marketing expenses to increase as we seek to expand our operations, enhance our service offerings, expand our customer base, and implement new marketing strategies, including with respect to customer acquisition efforts and general marketing campaigns. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $9.0 million, or 359%, to $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by: a one-time cumulative recognition of previously deferred stock compensation expense of $6.9 million related to the satisfaction of the liquidity condition with respect to outstanding stock units recognized as a result of the close of the Business Combination; one-time transaction bonuses awarded to employees in connection with the closing of the Business Combination and associated taxes of $2.1 million; $1.7 million increase in stock compensation expense; $0.5 million due to increased legal, accounting costs related to enhanced public reporting requirements and other software acquisition costs; $0.2 million due to executive incentive plan related bonuses; and $0.4 million due to increased headcount-related wage costs to build and upgrade the resources to operate as a public company and to build out our information security team. This increase was partially offset by the gain in change in fair value of forward contract agreement of $2.9 million which was entered into with Ampere as part of a strategic collaboration agreement. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase as we operate as a public company. Other Income (Expense), net Interest Expense 33 Table of Contents Interest expense was $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, increased from $77 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in expense was a result of the Loan Agreement we entered into with Trinity Capital Inc. (Trinity) in March 2021 (as amended from time to time, the Loan Agreement). The period over period increase was primarily because for the three months ended March 31, 2022, interest expense was calculated based on the overall borrowings under the Loan Agreement of $32.0 million for a three-month interest period, while for the same period in 2021, interest expense was based on borrowings under the Loan Agreement of $12.0 million for a shorter interest period of only 10 days. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities A discussion of change in fair value of warranty liabilities is included in Note 10 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months period ended March 31, 2022, included elsewhere to this Report. Change in Fair Value of Earn-out Liability A discussion of change in fair value of earn-out liability is included in Note 2, Sponsor Earn-Out Liability, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months period ended March 31, 2022, included elsewhere to this Report. Transaction Costs Transaction costs arose from the Business Combination allocated to liability-classified instruments that are subsequently measured at fair value through earnings must be expensed as incurred. We incurred a total transaction cost of $0.9 million allocated to liability-classified instruments for the three month period ended March 31, 2022. We did not incur any transaction costs for the comparable three months ended March 31, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses since inception, and experienced negative cash flows from operations. Prior to the Business Combination, we financed our operations primarily through the issuance of preferred stock, warrants, convertible notes and revenue. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we incurred net losses of $10.5 million. As of March 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $217.6 million, and we expect to incur additional losses and higher operating expenses for the foreseeable future in line with our long-term business and investment strategy. In connection with the closing of the Business Combination on March 2, 2022, we received a total of $225.6 million from the Business Combination and PIPE Investment, net against SNII transaction costs. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including net proceeds from the Business Combination, should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plan and expectations and assumptions in light of current macroeconomic conditions. We have based these estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect, and future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors in this Report. Our primary uses of cash are to fund our operations as we continue to grow our business. We will require a significant amount of cash for expenditures as we invest in ongoing research and development and business operations. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from sales of our development contracts and other services, we expect to finance our cash needs through borrowings under the Loan Agreement and equity or debt financings or other capital sources, including development contract revenue with government agencies and strategic partnerships. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development efforts. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors included in this Report. Loan and Security Agreement On March 10, 2021, we entered into the Loan Agreement with Trinity for term loans with a principal amount of $12.0 million, bearing an interest rate of the greater of 7.5% plus the prime rate published by the Wall Street Journal or 11.0%. In addition, we are required to pay a final payment fee equal to 2.75% of the aggregate amount of all term loan advances. The term loans under the Loan Agreement are secured by all of our assets. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, but does not include any financial covenants. The negative covenants include restrictions on the ability to incur indebtedness, pay dividends, execute fundamental change transactions, and other specified actions. In connection with entry into the Loan Agreement, we issued a warrant to purchase our shares of common stock to Trinity. The Guarantor of the loan is Rigetti Holdings, Inc. and the loan is secured by substantially all of our assets. 34 Table of Contents On May 18, 2021, we entered into a first amendment to the Loan Agreement, which modified certain financial covenants, including an additional good faith deposit of $20,000 and adding a tranche B to the Loan Agreement in an aggregate amount of $15.0 million, consisting of two advances of $8.0 million and $7.0 million each. In connection with such amendment, the maturity date was modified to be the date equal to 48 months from the first payment date of each specific cash advance. In connection with such amendment, we cancelled the initial warrants and issued a warrant to purchase 995,099 shares of our common stock. On October 21, 2021, we entered into a second amendment to the Loan Agreement, which modified the date requiring us to deliver evidence of completion of the PIPE transaction and execution of a definitive merger agreement with a special purpose acquisition company to October 31, 2021. Pursuant to the second amendment, the maturity date was modified to be the date equal to 48 months from the first payment date of each specific cash advance. Subject to an interest only period of 18 months following each specific cash advance date, the term loan incurs interest at the greater of a variable interest rate based on prime rate or 11% per annum, payable monthly. Interest-only payments are due monthly immediately following an advance for a period of 18 months and, beginning on the 19th month, principal and interest payments are due monthly. In January 2022, we entered into the third amendment to the Loan Agreement to increase the debt commitment by $5.0 million to $32.0 million. The amendment allows us to draw an additional $5.0 million immediately with an additional $8.0 million to be drawn at the sole discretion of the lender. We drew the additional $5.0 million upon signing the amendment. Other modifications per the amendment included an extension of the requirement to raise an additional $75 million of equity and a defined exit fee for the additional $5.0 million to be at 20% of the advanced funds under the amendment. In conjunction with the amendment, we also guaranteed payment of all monetary amounts owed and performance of all covenants, obligations and liabilities. As of March 31, 2022, the total principal amount outstanding under Loan Agreement was approximately $32.0 million. We use borrowings under the Loan Agreement for working capital purposes. The Loan Agreement is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. As of the date of this Report, we are in compliance with all covenants under the Loan Agreement. Our cash commitments as of March 31, 2022 were primarily as follows (in thousands): Total Short-Term Long-Term Financing obligations $ 30,043 $ 2,365 $ 27,678 Operating lease obligations 4,180 1,314 2,866 Total $ 34,223 $ 3,679 $ 30,544 Financing obligations consist of principal and unamortized financing costs related to the Loan and Security Agreement. Operating lease obligations consist of obligations under non-cancelable operating leases for our offices and facilities. The cash requirements in the table above are associated with contracts that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the actions under the contracts. The table does not include obligations under agreements that we can cancel without a significant penalty. Summary of Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (15,721 ) $ (5,795 ) Net cash used in investing activities (2,836 ) (1,488 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 213,445 12,026 Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities 35 Table of Contents Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our ability to achieve significant growth to offset expenditures related to research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities increased by $9.9 million, or 171%, when comparing the three months period ended March 31, 2022 to the same period in 2021. The increase in spending was primarily due to: one-time transaction bonuses awarded to employees in connection with the closing of the Business Combination and related taxes of $2.1 million; increase in headcount and payroll related costs of $2.6 million as a result of investments in research and development efforts combined with upgrading internal and external resources to operate as a public company; $1.1 million due to expanded material and software acquisition costs associated with research and development activities; $1.0 million in additional interest costs related to increased borrowing amounts associated with the Loan Agreement; and prepayment of insurance premium for directors and officers of $3.0 million. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $15.7 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $10.5 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $1.4 million in depreciation, $11.5 million in stock-based compensation, $1.8 million loss from change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities related to the Loan Agreement, $2.6 million gain from change in fair value of Private Placement Warrants (as defined below), $5.1 million gain from change in fair value of Public Warrants (as defined below), $2.9 million gain from change in fair value of for Forward Warrant Agreement and $9.6 million gain from change in fair value for contingent earn-out liabilities, $0.2 million in amortization of debt financing costs. These non-cash charges were partially offset by adjustments for changes in operating assets and liabilities seen during the period. Changes in operating assets and liabilities was $0.3 million, which primarily consisted of a decrease in accounts receivable of $0.3 million, an increase in prepaid and current assets of $3.1 million, an increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities for a total of $3.8 million, an increase in other assets for $0.9 million, and a decrease in deferred revenue of $0.5 million. The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets was due to advance payment for goods or services that were expected to be recognized or realized within the next 12 months period as of March 31, 2022. The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was due to increased operating expenses seen during the three months period ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in deferred revenue was due to decrease in prepayment by customers for goods or services that have yet to be delivered in the period, and the increase in accounts receivable was due to the timing of customer invoicing and payments. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $5.8 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $7.8 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $1.1 million in depreciation, and $0.6 million in stock-based compensation. These non-cash charges were partially offset by adjustments for changes in operating assets and liabilities seen during the period. Changes in operating assets and liabilities was $0.3 million, which consisted of a decrease in deferred revenue of $0.6 million and increase in accounts payable of $0.3 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $0.3 million, a decrease in accounts receivable of $0.2 million, a decrease of prepaid expenses and other current assets of $0.2 million, and a decrease in other liabilities of $0.1 million. The increase in accounts payable was due to the timing of vendor invoicing and payments, the decrease in deferred revenue was due to revenue being recognized on contracts with customers for advanced billings, and the increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities was due to increased spending on research and development activity during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $2.8 million, resulting solely from the additions of $2.8 million to property and equipment. Investments made into property and equipment during this period relate primarily to process computing equipment, quantum computing equipment and development tools for our chip fabrication facility. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022, increased by $1.3 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, largely as a result of increased investment in research and development. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $1.5 million, representing additions of $1.5 million to property and equipment. Investments made into property and equipment during this period relate primarily to process computing equipment, quantum computing equipment and development tools for our chip fabrication facility. 36 Table of Contents Cash Flows provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $213.7 million, reflecting $225.6 million from the Business Combination and PIPE Investment net against SNII transaction costs, offset by Rigetti side transaction costs paid out for a total of $16.4 million; the additional proceeds from the issuance of debt and warrants of $5.0 million associated with the Loan Agreement, less cash payment on debt issuance cost of $0.03 million and exit fees of $1.0 million; and proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options and warrants for a total $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was $12.0 million, mainly reflecting proceeds from the issuance of debt and warrants in associated with the Loan Agreement for a total amount of $12.0 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions on revenue generated and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on its historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. While our significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three month period ended March 31, 2022, included elsewhere in this Report, we believe the following critical accounting policies are most important to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Public and Private Warrants Prior to the Business Combination, Supernova issued 4,450,000 private placement warrants (Private Warrants) and 8,625,000 public warrants (Public Warrants and collectively, Warrants). Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of our common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustments and will expire five years after the Merger or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. The Private Warrants do not meet the derivative scope exception and are accounted for as derivative liabilities. Specifically, the Private Warrants contain provisions that cause the settlement amounts dependent upon the characteristics of the holder of the warrant which is not an input into the pricing of a fixed-for-fixed option on equity shares. Therefore, the Private Warrants are not considered indexed to our stock and should be classified as a liability. Since the Private Warrants meet the definition of a derivative, we recorded the Private Warrants as liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet at fair value upon the closing of the Business Combination, with subsequent changes in the fair value recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss at each reporting date. The fair value of the Private Warrants was measured using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at each measurement date. The Public Warrants also fail to meet the indexation guidance in ASC 815 and are accounted for as liabilities as the Public Warrants include a provision whereby in a scenario on which there is not an effective registration statement, the warrant holders have a cap, 0.361 common stock per warrant (subject to adjustment), on the issuable number of shares in a cashless exercise. Subsequent to the separate listing and trading of the Public Warrants, the fair value of the Public Warrants has been measured based on the observable listed prices for such warrants and the fair value of the Private Warrants are measured using a Monte Carlo Pricing Model. On the consummation of the Business Combination, we recorded a liability related to the Private Warrants of $9.2 million, with an offsetting entry to additional paid-in capital. On March 31, 2022, the fair value of the Private Warrants decreased to $6.6 million, with the gain on fair value change recorded in the condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Similarly, on the consummation of the Business Combination, we recorded a liability related to the public warrants of $16.3 million, with an offsetting entry to additional paid-in capital. On March 31, 2022, the fair value of the Private Warrants decreased to $11.2 million with the gain on fair value change recorded in the condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022. 37 Table of Contents Other Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815) at the initial recognition. Other than the Public and Private Placement warrants noted above, we also issued a total of 995,099 common stock warrants in conjunction with the Loan Agreement in 2021. Such derivative warrant liabilities are classified as non-current as their liquidation is not reasonably expected to require the use of current assets or require the creation of current liabilities. We utilized Black-Scholes model to determine grant fair value of the warrants which was approximately $2.7 million which was recorded as part of the Debt Issuance Cost. The change in fair value of the warrants from issuance date through March 31, 2022 of $3.5 million was driven primarily by an increase in the fair value of our stock that occurred as a result of the Busines Combination. We recorded a total loss of $1.8 million to Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability as a component of other income in the consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022. We did not have any common stock warrants classified as liabilities as of March 31, 2021. Earn-Out Liability At Business Combination Closing, the Sponsor subjected certain shares (Sponsor Earn-Out Shares) of Common Stock held by the Sponsor Holders to forfeiture and vesting as of the Closing if thresholds related to the weighted average price of Common Stock are not met for the duration of various specified consecutive day trading periods during the five-year period following the Closing (the Triggering Events). Any such shares held by the Sponsor Holders that remain unvested after the fifth anniversary of the Closing will be forfeited. The Sponsor Earn-Out Shares issued in related to the Business Combination are accounted for as liability classified instruments because the Triggering Events that determine the number of Sponsor Earn-Out Shares to be earned back by the Sponsor include outcomes that are not solely indexed to our common stock. The aggregate fair value of the Sponsor Earn-Out Shares on the Business Combination Closing was estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model and was determined to be $26.6 million at Closing. As of March 31, 2022, the Triggering Events were not achieved for any of the tranches and as such we adjusted the carrying amount of the liability to its estimated fair value of $16.9 million. The change in the fair value of $9.6 million is included in gain on fair value change, net in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. A discussion of change in fair value of earn-out liability is included in Note 2, Sponsor Earn-Out Liability, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three month period ended March 31, 2022, included elsewhere in this Report. Revenue Recognition Revenue consists primarily of our contracts that provide access to Rigetti quantum computing systems, collaborative research services, professional services, and the sale of custom quantum computing components. Access to Rigetti quantum computing systems can be purchased as a quantum computing subscription, or on a usage basis for a specified quantity of hours. Revenue related to subscription-based access to Rigetti quantum computing systems (i.e., quantum computing subscriptions) is recognized on a ratable basis over the subscription term, which can range from three months to two years. Revenue related to usage-based access to Rigetti quantum computing systems is recognized over time as the systems are accessed using an output method based on compute credit hours expended. Revenue related to collaborative research services and professional services is recognized over time as the services are provided using an input measure based on actual labor hours incurred to date relative to total estimated labor hours needed to complete the program or total contracted hours over the program period. Revenue related to the sale of custom quantum computing components is recognized at a point in time upon acceptance by the customer. Our fixed fee development contracts vary in term from one to five years, with the majority of such contracts having a term of 18 months to two years. When establishing the pricing for our fixed fee arrangements, we determine the pricing based on estimated costs to complete and expected margins taking into account the scope of work outlined within the contract being evaluated and our historical experience with similar services and contracts. Actual costs incurred over the period in which these contracts are fulfilled could vary from these estimates and therefore, these estimates are subject to uncertainty. On a quarterly basis, management reviews the progress with respect to each contract and its related milestones and evaluates whether any changes in estimates exists. As a result of the quarterly reviews, revisions in the estimated effort to complete the contract are reflected in the period in which the change is identified. These revisions may impact the overall progress related to transfer of control and therefore, result in either increases or decreases in revenues, as well as, increase or decreases in fulfillment costs and contract margins. In accordance, with ASC No. 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, any changes in estimates are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations in the period in which the circumstances that give rise to the revision become known to the management. To date, we have not experienced any changes in estimates that have had a material impact on our results from operations or financial position. 38 Table of Contents When our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated on a relative standalone selling price basis to each performance obligation. We typically determine standalone selling price based on observable selling prices of our products and services. In instances where standalone selling price is not directly observable, standalone selling price is determined using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. Standalone selling price is typically established as a range. In situations in which the stated contract price for a performance obligation is outside of the applicable standalone selling price range and has a different pattern of transfer to the customer than the other performance obligations in the contract, we will reallocate the total transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods and services to the customer. Revenue is recorded based on the transaction price, which includes fixed consideration and estimates of variable consideration. The amount of variable consideration included in the transaction price is constrained and is included only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Our contracts with customers may include renewal or other options at fixed prices. Determining whether such options are considered distinct performance obligations that provide the customer with a material right and therefore should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each renewal option to determine whether the renewal pricing is reflective of standalone selling price or is reflective of a discount that would provide the customer with a material right. Based on our assessment of standalone selling prices, we determined that there were no significant material rights provided to our customers requiring separate recognition. Stock-Based Compensation Our share-based compensation awards are all equity-classified and consist of stock options and restricted stock units (RSU). Stock options have service vesting conditions ranging from 1 to 5 years. RSUs issued pursuant to our prior equity incentive plan adopted in 2013 have a 4-year service vesting condition and a performance condition linked to the occurrence of a liquidity event defined as a change-in-control event, successful initial public offering or successful merger with a special purpose acquisition company. Compensation expenses are based on the grant-date fair value of the awards and recognized over the requisite service period using a straight-line method for stock options and a graded vesting method for RSUs. We have elected to account for forfeitures of employee stock awards as they occur. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements A description of recently issued accounting pronouncements that may potentially impact our financial position and results of operations is disclosed in Note 2 of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2022 included elsewhere in this Report. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status In April 2012, the JOBS Act was enacted. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Therefore, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Following the Business Combination, we still qualify as an emerging growth company and plans to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period emerging growth company status permits. During the extended transition period, it may be difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that complies with public company effective dates for accounting standard updates because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) the last day of our first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of SNIIs initial public offering, (b) the last date of our fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, (c) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC with at least $700.0 million of outstanding securities held by non-affiliates or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three years. 39 Table of Contents We are also a smaller reporting company as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We may take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies and will be able to take advantage of these scaled disclosures for so long as the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or our annual revenue is less than $100.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $700.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter.