ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References to the Company, our, us or we refer to GP Investments Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Companys behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 28, 2015 as a Cayman Islands exempted company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, the sale of warrants in a private placement that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our shares, debt or a combination of these as the consideration to be paid in our initial business combination. Results of Operations During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we had net losses of $9,351. The Companys entire activity from January 28, 2015 (inception) through March 31, 2015, was related to the Companys formation and its Initial Public Offering, described elsewhere in this report, which was consummated on May 26, 2015. We believe that we have sufficient funds available to complete our efforts to effect an initial business combination with an operating business within the required 24 months from May 26, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2015, we had cash held outside of our trust accounts, of $98,595. Until the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, the Companys only source of liquidity was an initial sale of our founder shares to GPIAC, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the Sponsor) for an aggregate purchase price of $25,000 and an aggregate of $16,321 advanced by our Sponsor directly to management and the Companys vendors for costs associated with the Initial Public Offering. The advances were repaid upon the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, the Company entered into a promissory note with the Sponsor, pursuant to which the Sponsor loaned the Company $100,000 (the Promissory Note) to be used for the payment of costs associated with the Initial Public Offering. The Promissory Note was non-interest bearing, unsecured and due on the earlier of December 31, 2015 or the closing of the Initial Public Offering. The Promissory Note was repaid upon the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. 1 On May 26, 2015, we consummated the Companys Initial Public Offering of 17,250,000 units (Units), which includes the exercise by the underwriters of their entire over-allotment option in the amount of 2,250,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $172,500,000 before underwriting discounts and expenses. Each Unit consists of one ordinary share and one-half of one warrant. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private sale of an aggregate of 6,062,500 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants), at a price of $1.00 per warrant in a private placement to GPIC, Ltd, a Bermuda company, generating gross proceeds of $6,062,500. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one ordinary share at $11.50 per share. A total of $172,500,000, comprised of approximately $168,187,500 of the proceeds from the Initial Public Offering, including approximately $6,037,500 of underwriters deferred discount, and $4,312,500 of the proceeds of the sale of the Private Placement Warrants were placed in a trust account maintained by Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, acting as trustee. These funds will not be released until the earlier of the Companys completion of its initial business combination or the redemption of the Companys public shares if it is unable to complete its business combination within 24 months from the closing of the offering, although the Company may withdraw the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account to pay franchise and income taxes. The amount of proceeds not deposited in the trust account was approximately $1,000,000 at the closing of the Initial Public Offering. For a description of the proceeds generated in the Companys Initial Public Offering and a discussion of the use of such proceeds, we refer you to Note 1 of the unaudited condensed interim financial statements included in this report. Off-balance sheet financing arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or enter into any non-financial agreements involving assets. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an administrative agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor, a total of $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial support and administrative services, commencing on the date our securities are first listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Upon the earlier of the completion of the initial business combination or the Companys liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Significant Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. The Company has not identified any significant accounting policies. 2