Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Report for updated information regarding our previously announced plans to wind-down the offering of services for Oracle PeopleSoft products. Among other things, the Rimini II Injunction would require us to immediately and permanently delete certain PeopleSoft software environments, files and updates identified in the Rimini II Injunction, and to immediately and permanently discontinue the use of, and to delete, certain Company-created automated tools. The Rimini II Injunction also prohibits using, distributing, copying, or making derivative works from certain files, and prohibits the transfer or copying of PeopleSoft files, updates, and modifications, and portions of PeopleSoft software that are developed, tested, or exist in one clients systems to our systems or another clients systems. The Rimini II Injunction also specifies that we shall not remove, alter or omit any Oracle copyright notices or other Oracle copyright management information from any file that contains an Oracle copyright notice and prohibits us from publicly making statements or statements substantially similar to those the District Court found to be false and misleading, which are listed in the Rimini II Injunction. The Rimini II Injunction also requires the Company to issue a corrective press regarding the statements and post it on the Companys website. In November 2023, Oracle filed a motion with the District Court requesting attorneys fees and costs of approximately $70.6 million relating to the Rimini II litigation. On September 23, 2024, the District Court issued its order on Oracles motion for attorneys fees and costs, granting in part and denying in part the motion, awarding Oracle $58.2 million in attorneys fees and $0.3 million in costs. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we paid a total of $58.7 million to Oracle related to this matter, including post-judgment interest of $0.2 million paid to Oracle on November 13, 2024. On September 24, 2024, we filed a notice of appeal in the District Court, commencing an appeal of the District Courts award of attorneys fees and costs to Oracle. As of the date of this Report, our appeal remains pending. Our opening brief is due -22- on March 11, 2025, and Oracles answering brief is due April 10, 2025. Our optional reply brief is due 21 days after Oracle files its answering brief. While we plan to continue to vigorously pursue our appeal of the District Courts award of attorneys fees and costs to Oracle in the Rimini II litigation, we are unable to predict the timing or outcome of this matter. No assurance is or can be given that we will prevail in our appeal of the District Courts award of attorneys fees and costs to Oracle in the Rimini II litigation or if there are any issues in the Rimini II litigation that become subject to further appeal. If the Rimini II Injunction became effective in a manner substantially similar to the version originally ordered by the District Court, it would impact our delivery of PeopleSoft support services to clients in the future. However, the associated costs are not currently estimable and are required to be recorded when incurred. Accordingly, we have made no associated accrual as of December 31, 2024. Required changes to how support services are delivered to our PeopleSoft clients could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we are currently reassessing our decision to wind-down the offering of services for Oracle PeopleSoft products, which efforts, if continued, will take time to complete, and the issues that will ultimately be considered by the District Court on remand in the Rimini II litigation could impact the nature and timing of any future wind-down efforts. The percentage of revenue derived from services we provide solely for Oracles PeopleSoft software product was approximately 8% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024. Oracle may file additional contempt motions against us at any time to attempt to enforce its interpretation of the Rimini I Injunction and/or the Rimini II Injunction or if it has reason to believe we are not in compliance with the express terms of the Rimini I Injunction and/or the Rimini II Injunction. Such contempt proceedings or any judicial finding of contempt could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, the existence of the Rimini I Injunction, the Rimini II Injunction, the District Courts January 2022 order and/or the District Courts July 2023 order could dissuade clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase our services. If we are obligated to pay substantial civil assessments arising from any finding of contempt, this could reduce the amount of cash flows available to pay principal, interest, fees and other amounts due under our 2024 Credit Facility, which could result in an event of default, in which case the lenders could demand accelerated payment of principal, accrued and unpaid interest, and other fees. We cannot provide assurances that we will have sufficient assets which would allow us to repay such indebtedness in full at such time. As a result, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We could be required to pay substantial attorneys fees and/or costs in connection with litigation relating to our current or past business activities and/or be enjoined from certain business practices. Any of these outcomes could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and the pendency of the litigation alone could dissuade clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase our services. If we are enjoined from certain business practices, this could reduce the amount of cash flows available to pay principal, interest, fees and other amounts due under our 2024 Credit Facility, which could result in an event of default, in which case the lenders could demand accelerated payment of principal, accrued and unpaid interest, and other fees. If we default in our payment obligations under our 2024 Credit Facility and the indebtedness under our 2024 Credit Facility were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our business has been and may continue to be materially harmed by this litigation and Oracles conduct. As of the date of this Report, we anticipate additional rulings by the District Court with respect to the 2023 Rimini II judgment and Injunction, by the Ninth Circuit with respect tothe District Courts award of attorneys fees and costs, and in connection with hearings, motions, decisions, and other matters, as well as other interim developments related to the litigation. If securities analysts or investors regard these rulings as negative, the market price of our Common Stock may continue to decline, which stock price volatility may result in other legal claims against us and potentially create risk of noncompliance with Nasdaq minimum trading price requirements. If current or prospective clients regard these rulings as negative, it could negatively impact our new client sales or renewal sales. While we plan to continue to vigorously litigate the pending matters in the Rimini II litigation, we are unable to predict the timing or outcome of these matters. No assurance is or can be given that we will prevail on any appeal, claim, or counterclaim. See the section titled Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 and Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for more information related to this litigation. -23- The Oracle software products that are part of our ongoing Rimini I Injunction compliance and that are the subject of the Rimini II litigation with Oracle represent a significant portion of our current revenue. The Rimini II Injunction, if effective in a manner substantially similar to the version originally ordered by the District Court, would limit, but not fully prohibit, the support services we can provide clients using Oracles PeopleSoft software product. The percentage of revenue derived from services we provide solely for Oracles PeopleSoft software product was approximately 8% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024. For the year ended December 31, 2024, approximately 62% of our total revenue was derived from services provided to our clients using Oracle software products. Although we provide support services for additional Oracle product lines that are not the subject of the Rimini I Injunction or the Rimini II litigation, as well as for software products provided by companies other than Oracle, our current revenue depends significantly on the product lines that are the subject of these matters. Should the Rimini II Injunction become effective (or substantially effective) as originally ordered by the District Court, should the District Court ultimately rule against us on issues reconsidered on remand, or should any additional contempt proceeding on the Rimini I Injunction and/or the Rimini II Injunction result in a final order holding us in contempt, implicating processes for which we have not previously modified the way we provide our support services, we could be required to change the way we provide support services to some of our clients, also potentially impacting any future plans to wind-down the offering of services for Oracle PeopleSoft products, which could result in the loss of clients and revenue, and may also give rise to claims for compensation from our clients, and require us to incur additional costs in order to comply with the Rimini II Injunction, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ongoing litigation with Oracle presents challenges for maintaining and growing our business. We have experienced challenges growing our business as a result of our ongoing litigation with Oracle. Many of our existing and prospective clients have expressed concerns regarding our ongoing litigation and, in some cases, have been subjected to various negative communications by Oracle in connection with the litigation. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience in the future, volatility and slowness in acquiring new clients, as well as clients not renewing their agreements with us, due to these challenges relating to our ongoing litigation with Oracle. Further, certain of our prospective and existing clients may be subject to additional negative communications from software vendors, which may result in a failure to renew the services performed by us or to engage us. We have taken steps to minimize disruptions to our existing and prospective clients regarding the litigation, but we continue to face challenges growing our business while the litigation remains ongoing. In certain cases, we have agreed to pay certain liquidated damages to our clients if we are no longer able to provide services to these clients, and/or reimburse our clients and our former lenders for their reasonable legal fees incurred in connection with any litigation-related subpoenas and depositions or to provide certain client indemnification or termination rights if any outcome of litigation results in our inability to continue providing any of the paid-for services. In addition, we believe the length of our sales cycle is longer than it otherwise would be due to prospective client diligence on possible effects of the Oracle litigation on our business. We cannot provide assurances that we will continue to overcome the challenges we face as a result of the litigation and continue to renew existing clients or secure new clients. Additionally, the existence of this ongoing litigation could negatively impact the value of our equity securities, and could negatively impact our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing, as well as result in other legal claims against us. We are self-insured for any costs related to any current or future intellectual property litigation, although we maintain and have tendered our errors and omissions insurance coverage for the wrongful acts alleged in Oracles Rimini I Injunction contempt proceeding to seek determinations of a duty to defend. We obtained a determination of a duty to defend with respect to our primary errors and omission insurance carrier. We cannot provide assurances that we will prevail on any similar claims that we may tender in the future. While we currently believe our cash on hand, accounts receivable, contractually committed backlog and borrowing capacity under our 2024 Credit Facility provide us with liquidity to cover attorneys fees and related costs, such as travel, hotels, and consultants, associated with the ongoing litigation with Oracle, we cannot assure our liquidity will be sufficient. Oracle has a history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products, and Oracle could pursue additional litigation with us. Oracle has been active in litigating against companies that have offered competing maintenance and support services for their products. For example, in March 2007, Oracle filed a lawsuit against SAP and its wholly-owned subsidiary, TomorrowNow, Inc. After a jury verdict awarding Oracle $1.3 billion, the parties stipulated to a final judgment of $306 million subject to appeal. After the appeal, the parties settled the case in November 2014 for $356.7 million. In February 2012, Oracle -24- filed suit against ServiceKey, Inc. and settled the case in October 2013 after the District Court issued an injunction against ServiceKey and its CEO. Oracle also filed suit against CedarCrestone Corporation in September 2012 and settled the case in July 2013. TomorrowNow and CedarCrestone offered maintenance and support for Oracle software products, and Service Key offered maintenance and support for Oracle technology products. Given Oracles history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products, we can provide no assurance, regardless of the outcome of our current litigations with Oracle, that Oracle will not pursue additional litigation against us. Such additional litigation could be costly, distract our management team from running our business and reduce client interest and our sales revenue. Other Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry Economic uncertainties, changes in economic conditions, including rising inflation, or downturns in the general economy or the industries in which our clients operate, may result in increased costs of operations, could disproportionately affect the demand for our products and services and could negatively impact our results of operations. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced significant fluctuations in recent years, and market volatility and uncertainty remain widespread, with the expectation that inflation and other economic challenges will be exacerbated for an extended period. An inflationary environment may increase our and our clients cost of labor due to higher wages, as well as result in higher financing costs and/or higher supplier prices for both us and our clients. As a result, we and our clients may find it difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In addition, these conditions could cause our clients or prospective clients to reduce their IT budgets, which could decrease corporate spending on our products and services, resulting in delayed and lengthened sales cycles, a decrease in new client acquisition and loss of clients. Furthermore, during challenging economic times, our clients may face issues with their cash flows and in gaining timely access to sufficient credit or obtaining credit on reasonable terms, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us, impact client renewal rates and adversely affect our revenue. In addition, further disruptions in the U.S. banking sector could impact certain of our clients ability to access their existing cash, which could also impair their ability to make timely payments to us, adversely affecting our revenue. If such conditions occur, we may be required to increase our reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and our results of operations would be harmed. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery, whether global, regional or within specific markets. If the conditions of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsen, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if the overall economy improves, the market for our products and services may not experience growth. Moreover, multiple events, including changes in U.S. trade policies and responsive changes in policy by foreign jurisdictions, geopolitical developments, including the economic disruption caused by the Israel-Hamas conflict, the Russian invasion of Ukraine and recent political and trade turmoil with China and elsewhere have increased levels of political and economic unpredictability globally, and may increase the volatility of global financial markets and the global and regional economies. The market for independent software support services is relatively undeveloped and may not grow. The market for independent enterprise software support services is still relatively undeveloped, has not yet achieved widespread acceptance and may not grow quickly or at all. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to engage a third party such as us to provide software support services for their enterprise software. Many enterprise software licensees remain hesitant to use a third party to provide such support services, choosing instead to rely on support services provided by the enterprise software vendor. Other enterprise software licensees have invested substantial personnel, infrastructure and financial resources in their own organizations with respect to support of their licensed enterprise software products and may choose to self-support with their own internal resources instead of purchasing services from the enterprise software vendor or an independent provider such as ourselves. Particularly because our market is relatively undeveloped, we must address any potential clients concerns and explain the benefits of our approach to convince them of the value of our services. If companies are not sufficiently convinced that we can address their concerns and that the benefits of our services are compelling, then the market for our services may not develop as we anticipate, and our business will not grow. We face significant competition for the services comprising each component of our Solutions Portfolio, from both enterprise software vendors and other companies offering independent enterprise software support, products and services, as well as from software licensees that attempt to self-support, which may harm our ability to add new clients, retain existing clients and grow our client base across all of our Solutions Portfolio offerings. Our current and potential competitors across each component of our Solutions Portfolio, which include enterprise software vendors, may have significantly more financial, technical, sales and marketing teams and other resources than we have, may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services, may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. Specifically, we face intense competition from enterprise software -25- vendors, such as Oracle and SAP, who provide software support for their own products, as well as from other competitors who provide independent enterprise software support, products and services. Competitors, including enterprise software vendors, have offered, and may continue to offer, discounts to companies to whom we have marketed our services. In addition, competitors, including enterprise software vendors, may take other actions in an attempt to maintain their business, including changing the terms of their customer agreements, the functionality of their support, products or services, or their pricing terms. For example, starting in the second quarter of 2017 Oracle has prohibited us from accessing its support websites to download software updates on behalf of our clients who are authorized to do so and permitted to authorize a third party to do so on their behalf. In addition, the support, license or other contractual policies of our future and current competitors, including Oracle and SAP, may include clauses that penalize customers that choose to use our or any independent providers services or products. Further, the contractual policies of enterprise software vendors, such as Oracle and SAP, may contain clauses that penalize customers that seek to return to the software vendor to purchase new licenses following a departure from the software vendors support program. In addition, our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future enterprise software support, products or services less competitive or obsolete. Finally, we also face competition from software licensees that choose to self-support. Competition could significantly impede our ability to sell our enterprise support, products and services on terms favorable to us, and we may need to decrease the prices for our support, products or services to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our results of operations will be negatively affected. There are also several smaller support services vendors in the independent enterprise software support services market with whom we compete with respect to certain of our support services. We expect competition to continue to increase in the future, particularly if we prevail in our appeal of the Rimini II litigation, which could harm our ability to increase sales, maintain or increase renewals and maintain our prices. In addition, certain providers of independent enterprise software support, products and services may have or may develop more strategic relationships with enterprise software vendors, which may allow them to compete more effectively than us over the long term. To the extent any of our competitors have existing relationships with potential clients for any component of our Solutions Portfolio, those potential clients may be unwilling to purchase our services because of those existing relationships, which could cause the demand for our services to be substantially impacted. Further, our competitors may attempt to use the Oracle litigation described above under the section titled Risks Related to Litigation, to dissuade certain of our prospective or existing clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase any or all of the components of our Solutions Portfolio, including our enterprise software support services. We have had a history of losses and may not achieve revenue growth or profitability in the future. Further, if we are unable to attract new clients or retain and/or sell additional products or services to our existing clients, our revenue growth could be adversely affected. We recorded a net loss of $36.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, and we had an accumulated deficit of $238.5 million as of December 31, 2024. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods while managing our costs to be profitable, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. To increase our revenue, we must add new clients, secure renewals or service extensions by existing clients on terms favorable to us and sell additional products and services to existing clients. As competitors introduce low-cost and/or differentiated services that are perceived to compete with ours, or as enterprise software vendors introduce competitive pricing or additional products and services or implement other sales strategies to compete with us, our ability to sell to new clients and renew agreements with existing clients based on pricing, service levels, technology and functionality could be impaired. In addition, certain of our existing clients may choose to license a new or different version of enterprise software from an enterprise software vendor, and such clients license agreements with the enterprise software vendor will typically include a minimum one-year mandatory maintenance and support services agreement. In such cases, it is unlikely that these clients would renew their maintenance and support services agreements with us, at least during the early term of the license agreement. In addition, such existing clients could move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer any products or services. As a result, we may be unable to renew or extend our agreements with existing clients or attract new clients or new business from existing clients on terms that would be favorable or comparable to prior periods, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and growth. Additionally, we intend to continue to expend significant funds to expand our sales and marketing operations, enhance our service offerings, expand into new markets, launch new product offerings and meet the compliance requirements associated with our operations as a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. Further, many companies with which we compete have larger and longer-tenured sales and marketing teams, which may impact the ability to grow our business, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and growth. If we are unable to achieve and sustain revenue growth or profitability, the market price of our securities may significantly decrease. -26- Our past revenue growth and financial performance is not indicative of future performance. If our revenue continues to decline or fails to grow at a rate sufficient to offset expenses associated with efforts to grow, we may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively manage efforts for future growth or execute these efforts successfully. While our revenue has generally grown over the last several years, it declined from $431.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $428.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, representing a period over period decrease of 1%. Our revenue for any previous quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our revenue or revenue growth in the future. Further, efforts focused on future growth may not result in increased revenue. We believe growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: price our products and services effectively so that we are able to attract new clients and retain existing clients without compromising our profitability; introduce our products and services to new geographic markets; introduce new enterprise software products and services supporting additional enterprise software vendors, products and releases; satisfactorily conclude any Oracle-related litigation and any other litigation or governmental inquiry that may occur; and increase awareness of our company, products and services on a global basis. We may not successfully accomplish all or any of these objectives. In addition, efforts to encourage growth have placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Recent changes to our organizational structure and reductions in our workforce to align our operational needs with our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will necessitate adjustments to our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits, savings and improvements from the recent changes to our organizational structure and associated reductions in workforce if our revenue continues to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, we believe that our corporate culture has been a critical component of our success. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team and nurturing our culture. However, efforts to encourage growth may make it difficult to maintain our corporate culture. For example, recent changes to our organizational structure and reductions in our workforce may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our intended reduction in workforce and reduced employee morale, which may cause our employees who were not affected by the reorganization to seek alternate employment. We will require the allocation of valuable management resources to manage our reorganizational efforts without undermining our corporate culture of rapid innovation, teamwork and attention to client service that has been central to our growth. Any failure to manage efforts to encourage growth and related organizational changes in a manner that preserves our culture could negatively impact the achievement of our business objectives and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. If our retention rates continue to decrease, or we do not accurately predict retention rates, our future revenue and results of operations may be harmed. Our clients have no obligation to renew their product or service subscription agreements with us after the expiration of a non-cancelable agreement term. In addition, the majority of our multi-year, non-cancelable client agreements are not pre-paid other than the first year of the non-cancelable service period. We may not accurately predict retention rates for our clients. Our retention rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our clients decision to license a new product or release from an enterprise software vendor, our clients decision to move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer products or services, global economic conditions, including rising inflation and interest rates on our clients businesses, client satisfaction with our products and services, the acquisition of our clients by other companies and clients going out of business. If our clients do not renew their agreements for our products and services or if our clients decrease the amount they spend with us, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. In addition, certain of our existing clients may choose to license a new or different version of enterprise software from an enterprise software vendor, and such clients license agreements with the enterprise software vendor will typically include a minimum one-year mandatory maintenance and support services agreement. In such cases, it is unlikely that these clients would renew their maintenance and support services agreements with us, at least during the early term of the license agreement. In addition, such existing clients could move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer any products or services. -27- Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the relevant contract, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our results of operations. As a subscription-based business, we recognize revenue over the service period of our contracts. As a result, much of our reported revenue each quarter results from contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, while a shortfall in demand for our products and services or a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one quarter may not significantly reduce our revenue for that quarter, it could negatively affect our revenue in future quarters and full year periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new sales, renewals or extensions of our service agreements for a quarter will not be reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. Our revenue recognition model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new clients must be recognized over the applicable service contract term. Due to the variability of timing in our sales cycle, if we fail to forecast our revenue accurately, or if we fail to match our expenditures with corresponding revenue, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. The variability of the sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our products and services, which typically has been six to twelve months once a client is engaged, may cause us to experience a delay between increasing operating expenses for such sales efforts, and the generation of corresponding revenue. Accordingly, we may be unable to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenue that we do not receive as a result of delays arising from these factors. As a result, our results of operations and liquidity in future reporting periods may be significantly below the expectations of the public market, securities analysts or investors, which could negatively impact the price of our Common Stock. Our future liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of new orders, the level of client renewals and cash receipts from clients. Due to the collection of cash from our clients before services are provided, our revenue is recognized over future periods when there are no corresponding cash receipts from such clients. Accordingly, our future liquidity depends upon the ability to continue to attract new clients and to enter into renewal arrangements with existing clients. If we experience a decline in orders from new clients or renewals from existing clients, our revenue may continue to increase while our liquidity and cash levels decline. Any such decline, however, will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of declines in orders from new clients or renewals from existing clients may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and cash flows until future periods. Comparing our revenues and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, as it may not be an indicator of the future sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity requirements. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance or liquidity. We rely on our management team and other key employees, including our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and the loss or disability of one or more key employees could harm our business. Additionally, the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, including sales personnel, or to expand our marketing and sales capabilities could prevent us from executing our business strategy. The loss of or a disability that would prevent our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board or any of our key members of management from substantially performing their duties could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if we are unable to hire and integrate suitable replacements on a timely basis. Mr. Ravin has been under long-standing medical care for kidney disease, which includes ongoing treatment. Although Mr. Ravins condition has not adversely impacted his performance as President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board or on the overall management of the Company, we can provide no assurance that his condition will not affect his ability to perform the role of President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board in the future. Further, as we continue to grow our business, we will continue to adjust our management team to best address our growth opportunities. If we are unable to attract or retain the right individuals for the team, it could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. Furthermore, to execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including sales personnel. Our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our marketing and sales operations. We plan to continue expanding our sales force globally. We are experiencing a very competitive recruiting environment, creating difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient numbers of highly skilled sales personnel and other employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, we have experienced extreme hiring competition in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we have a significant amount of operations, but -28- also face extremely competitive hiring environments across the United States and the other countries in which we operate. Our efforts to attract, develop, integrate and retain highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications may be compounded by intensified restrictions on travel, immigration, or the availability of work visas. Many companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources and less stock price volatility than we do. In making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the equity incentives they are to receive in connection with their employment. If the price of our stock continues to experience significant volatility, our ability to attract or retain qualified employees will be adversely affected. In addition, as we continue to expand into new geographic markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the required management, sales, marketing and support services personnel to profitably grow our business. If we fail to attract highly qualified new sales and other personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our growth prospects could be severely harmed. Moreover, it generally takes our new sales personnel an average of between nine to twelve months to operate at the capacity typically expected of experienced sales personnel. This ramp cycle, combined with our typical six- to twelve-month sales cycle for engaged prospects, means that we will not immediately recognize a return on this investment in our sales results. In addition, the cost to acquire clients is high due to the cost of these marketing and sales efforts. Further, the cost of marketing and sales efforts will likely increase as we continue to offer new products and services, as even our experienced sales personnel will need to receive specialized training on our new offerings. Our business may be materially harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our sales force if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel, if our new sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective. Our failure to generate significant capital through our operations or raise additional capital necessary to fund and expand our operations, invest in new services and products, and service our debt could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We may need to incur additional debt under our 2024 Credit Facility and/or raise additional capital beyond what is available under our 2024 Credit Facility if we cannot fund future growth or service our debt through our operating cash flows. Should this occur, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or additional equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to certain restrictions for future financings as discussed in the risk factor The terms of our 2024 Credit Facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of our Common Stock could decline. If we engage in additional debt financings, the holders of the debt securities or lenders would have priority over the holders of our Common Stock. We may also be required to accept terms that further restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, take other actions that would adversely impact the short-term price of our Common Stock, or force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and reduce the value of our Common Stock. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual and proprietary rights. Companies in the software industry are often required to defend against claims and litigation alleging infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors and other industry participants have been issued patents and/or have filed patent applications and may assert patent or other intellectual property rights within the industry. Our ongoing litigation with Oracle relates in part to copyright infringement claims and, from time to time, we may receive threatening letters or notices alleging infringement or may be the subject of claims that our services and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. Further, while we prohibit the use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies by our employees unless incorporated into one of our product or service offerings or approved in accordance with internal policies, incorporating AI technologies in our product and service offerings or the unauthorized use of generative AI technologies by our employees may result in allegations or claims against us related to violations of third-party intellectual property rights, unauthorized access to or use of proprietary information and/or failure to comply with the terms of third-party licensing agreements. Any allegation of infringement, whether innocent or intentional, can adversely impact marketing, sales and our reputation. Interruptions to or degraded performance of our service could result in client dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, loss of clients, limited growth and reduction in revenue. Our software support agreements with our clients generally guarantee a 10-minute response time with respect to certain high-priority issues. If we do not meet the 10-minute guarantee, our clients may in some instances be entitled to liquidated damages, service credits or refunds. To date, no such payments have been made. -29- We also deliver tax, legal and regulatory updates to our clients. If there are inaccuracies in these updates, or if we are not able to deliver them on a timely basis to our clients, our reputation may be damaged, and we could be found liable for damages to our clients and potentially lose clients. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, security breaches or a result of any other issues, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and cause our revenue to decrease and our expenses to increase. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors, in turn, could further reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to pay liquidated damages, issue credits or cause clients not to renew their agreements with us, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. We depend and rely on SaaS technologies and related services from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, and interruptions or performance problems with these technologies or services, including any deficiencies associated with generative AI technologies potentially offered by us or used by such third parties, may adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend and rely on software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technologies and related services from third parties to operate critical functions of our business, including billing and order management, financial accounting services, and client relationship management services. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions, security vulnerabilities, or cyber-attacks, because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, or due to other unforeseen circumstances, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage these critical functions could be interrupted, and our processes for and ability to manage sales of our products, recognize revenue, and support our clients could be impaired, all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Further, any incorporation of generative AI technologies in our product and service offerings and the continued use and/or development of AI technologies or services by some of our third-party vendors and service providers, as well as any ineffective or inadequate generative AI development or deployment practices by us or such third-party vendors and service providers, could result in unintended consequences such as reputational damage, legal liabilities or loss of user confidence or business. The algorithms and models used in generative AI technologies and systems may have limitations, including biases, errors, or inability to handle certain data types or scenarios. In addition, there is a risk of system failures, disruptions or vulnerabilities that could compromise the integrity, security or privacy of the generated content, including the use of cyberattacks against emerging technologies, such as forms of generative AI. We may experience fluctuations in our results of operations due to the sales cycles for our products and services, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including seasonality linked to certain of the sales cycles for our products and services. Historically, our sales cycle has been tied to the renewal dates for our clients existing and prior vendor support agreements for the products that we support. Because our clients make support vendor selection decisions in conjunction with the renewal of their existing support agreements with Oracle and SAP, among other enterprise software vendors, we have experienced an increase in business activity during the quarterly periods in which those agreements are up for renewal. However, because we have introduced and intend to continue to introduce products and services for additional software products that do not follow the same renewal timeline or pattern, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance, and comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Also, if we are unable to engage a potential client before its renewal date for software support services in a particular year, it will likely be at least another year before we would have the opportunity to engage that potential client again, given that such potential client likely had to renew or extend its existing support agreement for at least an additional years worth of service with its existing support provider. Furthermore, our existing clients generally renew their agreements with us at or near the end of each calendar year, so we have also experienced and expect to continue to experience heavier renewal rates in the fourth quarter. We may not be able to accurately forecast the amount and mix of future product and service subscriptions, revenue and expenses, and as a result, our results of operations may fall below our estimates or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If our revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our Common Stock could decline. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. We currently offer our clients support services for a fee that is equal to a percentage of the annual fees charged by the enterprise software vendor; therefore, changes in such vendors fee structures would impact the fees we would receive from our -30- clients. If the enterprise software vendors offer deep discounts on certain services or lower prices generally, we may need to change our pricing models, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our other product and service offerings, such as our Rimini ONE integrated services, have pricing models that use a variety of different metrics and formulas as compared to our support solutions. To the extent that we do not have substantial experience with pricing such new products and services, we may need to adjust our pricing models for these offerings over time to ensure that we remain competitive and realize a return on our investment in developing these new products and services. If we do not adapt our pricing models as necessary or appropriate, our revenue could decrease and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to scale our business systems quickly enough to meet our clients changing needs or decrease our costs adequately in response to changing client demand, and if we are not able to manage these changes efficiently, our results of operations could be harmed. As enterprise software products become more advanced and complex, we will need to devote additional resources to innovating, improving and expanding our offerings to provide relevant products and services to our clients using these more advanced and complex products. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our internal business systems and our global operations and client engagement teams to serve the changing needs of our client base, particularly as our client demographics expand over time. Any such expansion may be expensive and complex, requiring financial investments, management time and attention. Any failure of or delay in these efforts could adversely affect the quality or success of our services and negatively impact client satisfaction, resulting in potential decreased sales to new clients and possibly lower renewal rates by existing clients. Furthermore, changes in client demand or changes in our product offerings resulting from external events outside of our control, including our litigation with Oracle, could require us to alter the scale of our business, including, among other things, implementing additional workforce reductions. We could face inefficiencies or operational failures as a result of our efforts to scale our infrastructure for any such changes needed for our clients' changing needs or changes in our business. There can be no assurance that any expansion and improvements to our infrastructure and systems or reduction in the scale of our business or workforce will be fully or effectively implemented within budgets or on a timely basis, if at all. Any failure to efficiently scale our business could result in reduced revenue and increased expenditures and adversely impact our operating margins and results of operations. Because our long-term strategy involves further expansion of our sales to clients outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with global operations, including currency exchange rate fluctuations. A significant component of our long-term strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and client base outside the United States. We currently have subsidiaries outside of the United States in Australia, Brazil, Canada, UAE (Dubai), France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, which focus primarily on selling our services in those regions. In the future, we may expand to other locations outside of the United States. Our current global operations and future initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including among others: changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions; the occurrence of catastrophic events, including natural disasters, that may disrupt our business; changes in regulatory requirements, taxes or trade laws or the imposition of trade sanctions; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into currency exchange rate hedging transactions; more stringent regulations relating to data security, such as where and how data can be housed, accessed and used, and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information; differing labor regulations, especially in countries and geographies where labor laws are more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs as well as hire and retain local management, sales, marketing and support personnel, along with the ability to recapture costs to open up new geographies; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems and regulatory systems; increased logistics, travel, real estate, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with global operations; limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general preferences for local vendors; -31- changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes and sanctions and other trade barriers; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection; war, political instability or terrorist activities, including geopolitical actions specific to an international region, such as the ongoing geopolitical conflict between Israel and Hamas; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash. Our exposure in operating our business globally with the risks noted above and the unique challenges of each new geography, as well as changes in U.S. trade policies, increase the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our global operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Consolidation in our target sales markets is continuing at a rapid pace, which could harm our business in the event that our clients are acquired and their agreements are terminated, or not renewed or extended. Consolidation among companies in our target sales markets has been robust in recent years, and this continuing trend poses a risk for us. If such consolidation rates continue, we expect that some of the acquiring companies will terminate, renegotiate and elect not to renew our agreements with the clients they acquire, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If there is a widespread shift by clients or potential clients to enterprise software vendors, products and releases for which we do not provide software products or services, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Our current revenue is primarily derived from the provision of support services for Oracle and SAP enterprise software products. If other enterprise software vendors, products and releases emerge to take substantial market share from current Oracle and SAP products and releases we support, and we are unable to, or do not, offer products or services for such vendors, products or releases, demand for our products and services may decline or our products and services may become obsolete. Developing new products and services to address different emerging enterprise software vendors, products and releases could take a substantial investment of time and financial resources, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful. If fewer clients use enterprise software products for which we provide products and services, and we are not able to provide services for new vendors, products and releases, our business may be adversely impacted. We continue to invest resources in research and development to enhance our current product and service offerings, and other new offerings that will appeal to clients and potential clients, for example, our partnership with Salesforce to support SaaS solutions, our managed services for SAP and Oracle products and our Rimini ONE integrated services. The development of new product and service offerings may not generate sufficient revenue to offset the increased research and development expenses and may not generate gross profit margins consistent with our current margins. Also, our new product and service offerings may be in markets that are more competitive than markets for our existing product and service offerings, making it more difficult to introduce them to clients and potential clients effectively or provide them profitably. If our new or modified products, services or technology do not work as intended, are not responsive to client needs or industry or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing and prospective clients or related opportunities, in which case our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted, and if we are not successful in implementing any new product and service offerings, we may need to write off the value of our investment in such offerings. Cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication; if our data security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to or misuse of client data occurs, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or cease their use of our services, our reputation and our business may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. We rely on certain key information technology systems, including some with generative artificial intelligence (AI) and some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, to provide critical data and services for our internal and external users. Our services sometimes involve accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing and transmitting proprietary information and protected data of our clients. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing and transmitting -32- such information and data. If our security measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee, vendor or client error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business and our clients may be harmed, and we could incur significant liabilities. Cyberattacks continue to increase in frequency and in magnitude generally, and these threats are being driven by a variety of sources, including nation-state sponsored espionage and hacking activities, industrial espionage, organized crime, sophisticated organizations and hacking groups and individuals. Furthermore, due to tensions related to ongoing geopolitical conflicts, the risk of cyber-attacks may be elevated. We have been the subject of cybersecurity threats and expect such threats to continue in the future. In addition, if the security measures of our clients are compromised, even without any actual compromise of our own systems or security measures, we may face negative publicity or reputational harm if our clients or anyone else incorrectly attributes the blame for such security breaches to us, our products and services, or our systems. We may also be responsible for repairing any damage caused to our clients systems that we support, and we may not be able to make such repairs in a timely manner or at all. We may be unable to fully anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems because they change frequently, including increased usage of emerging technologies such as advanced automation or AI, and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our client base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our systems or security measures or gain unauthorized access to our clients proprietary information and protected data as was the case in a 2021 successful phishing incident where we were a victim, which resulted in some unauthorized sharing of client addresses and outstanding billing data information, but did not significantly impact our business or client relationships. Although we attempt to identify, mitigate and manage these risks by employing a number of measures, including insurance, monitoring of our systems and networks, employee training and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated advanced persistent threats that may have a material effect on our business. In addition, the devotion of additional resources to the security of our information technology systems in the future could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact our financial results. Furthermore, information systems require constant updates to their security policies, networks, software and hardware systems to reduce the risk of unauthorized access, malicious destruction of data or information theft. We rely on third-party service providers' systems and software to provide our software support, products and services. The failure of any third-party service providers to efficiently and correctly update their software and hardware systems or maintain cybersecurity could result in operational inefficiencies and subject us to expend additional resources and costs which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, many governments have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data, and some of our clients contractually require notification of any data security compromise. In the event of a data security compromise, we may have difficulty timely complying with notification requirements that are unreasonably short or burdensome. SEC rules and potential other applicable legislative action will require public disclosure of material security compromises experienced by our clients, by our competitors or by us, which may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any data security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode client confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to elect not to renew their agreements with us, or subject us to third party lawsuits, government investigations, regulatory fines or other action or liability, all or any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurances that any limitations of liability provisions in our contracts for a security breach would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Further, certain of our contracts do not contain limitations of liability specific to security breaches, which could expose us to significant liabilities or damages, all or any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of substantial deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to governmental and other legal obligations related to privacy and security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. -33- As an expanding global company, we are subject to the laws and regulations of numerous jurisdictions worldwide regarding accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing, transmitting, disclosure and protection of personal data, the scope of which are constantly changing, subject to differing interpretation and related to jurisdictions where we have operations, clients, or where we conduct marketing, and such laws may be inconsistent between countries or in conflict with other laws, legal obligations or industry standards. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union creates a broad range of requirements and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance, including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual revenue for the preceding financial year or 20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements. We are also subject to certain requirements in other international jurisdictions with or developing strong privacy and security legislation, as well as expanding U.S. state law, including the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act of 2021, the Colorado Consumer Privacy Act of 2021, as well as privacy and security legislation in other states, including Nevada, each of which add to the range of privacy- and security-related compliance requirements. We generally comply with industry standards and strive to comply with all applicable legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection and security, but it is possible that these laws and other legal obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with industry standards or our practices or may be mandated at a pace that exceeds our ability to comply. Compliance with such requirements may be costly and may require us to modify our business practices, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these laws, policies or other obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions or litigation against us, with potential consequences such as fines and other expenses related to such governmental actions, an order requiring that we change our data practices or business practices, and could cause our clients to lose trust in us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Further, the unauthorized use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) technology by our workforce may pose potential risks relating to the protection of data, including cybersecurity risk, exposure of our and our clients proprietary confidential information to unauthorized recipients and the misuse of our or third-party intellectual property. If our products and services fail due to defects or similar problems, and if we fail to correct any defect or other software problems, we could lose clients, become subject to service performance or warranty claims or incur significant costs. Our products and services and the systems infrastructure necessary for the successful delivery of our products and services to clients are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors unknown to us. We have from time to time found defects in our products and services after delivery to our customers and may discover additional defects in the future. In particular, we have developed our own tools and processes to deliver comprehensive tax, legal and regulatory updates tailored for each client, which we endeavor to deliver to our clients in a shorter timeframe than our competitors, which may result in an increased risk of material defects or errors occurring. We may not be able to detect and correct all defects or errors before clients begin to use our products and services, as some may be unknown. Consequently, defects or errors may be discovered after our products and services are provided and used. These defects or errors could also cause inaccuracies in the data we collect and process for our clients, or even the loss, damage or inadvertent release of such confidential data. Even if we are able to implement fixes or corrections to our tax, legal and regulatory updates in a timely manner, any history of defects or inaccuracies in the data we collect for our clients, or the loss, damage or inadvertent release of such confidential data could cause our reputation to be harmed, and clients may elect not to renew, extend or expand their agreements with us and subject us to service performance credits, warranty or other claims or increased insurance costs. The costs associated with any material defects or errors in our products and services or other performance problems may be substantial and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our Common Stock price. We have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past as described in our historical periodic reports filed with the SEC. We remediated the material weaknesses; however, we cannot provide assurance that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. We are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on managements assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. For further information regarding our