ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report) includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Report, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy and plans, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, assume, believe, continue, could, currently, estimate, expect, forecast, future, intend, may, might, outlook, plan, possible, goal, potential, predict, project, seem, seek, should, will, would and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information concerning: the evolution of the enterprise software management and support landscape facing our clients and prospects; our ability to educate the market regarding the advantages of our enterprise software management and support services and products; costs, including attorneys fees, associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims, such as those claims discussed under Legal Proceedings in Part II, Item 1 of this Report, and our expectations with respect to such litigation, including the disposition of matters currently on appeal, and any new claims; any expenses to be incurred to comply with any injunction ordered by the courts relating to the Rimini II litigation matter and the impact on future period revenue and costs incurred related to these efforts; estimates of our total addressable market; expectations of client savings relative to use of other providers; the occurrence of catastrophic events, including terrorism and geopolitical actions specific to an international region, that may disrupt our business or that of our current and prospective clients; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to maintain sufficient cash flow and capital or raise additional capital necessary to fund our operations and invest in new services and products; the impact of our Credit Facilitys debt service obligations and financial and operational covenants on our business and related interest rate risk; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; the impact of any recessionary macro-economic trends, including inflation, rising interest rates and changes in foreign exchange rates; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to expand our leadership position in independent enterprise software support and to sell our application management services (AMS), our Rimini ONEintegrated services and the individual services comprising our Rimini ONE solutions portfolio; our expectations regarding new product offerings, partnerships and alliance programs, including but not limited to our partnership with ServiceNow; our ability to develop and maintain strategic partnerships; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to further penetrate our existing client base; our ability to maintain our competitive technological advantages against new entrants in our industry; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; our ability to capitalize on changing market conditions including a market shift to hybrid and cloud/SaaS offerings for information technology environments and retirement of certain software releases by software vendors; benefits associated with the use of our services; our ability to expand internationally; our need and ability to raise equity or debt financing on favorable terms and our ability to generate cash flows from operations to help fund increased investment in our growth initiatives; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; our intentions with respect to our pricing model; cost of revenue, including changes in costs associated with production and client support, and the results of any efforts to manage costs in light of current revenue expectations and expansion of our offerings; changes in laws or regulations, including tax laws or unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take; tariff costs (including tariff relief or the ability to mitigate tariffs, in light of new or increased tariffs imposed by the United States government and the potential for retaliatory trade measures by affected countries); a failure by us to establish adequate reserves for tax events; 23 our ability to realize benefits from our net operating losses; any negative impact of environmental, social and governance matters on our reputation or business and the exposure of our business to additional costs or risks from our reporting on such matters; our ability to maintain our good standing with the United States government and international governments and capture new contracts with governmental entities; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; our ability to prevent unauthorized access to our information technology systems and other cybersecurity threats, protect the confidential information of our employees and clients and comply with privacy and data protection regulations, as well as any deficiencies associated with generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies potentially used by us or used by our third-party vendors and service providers; the amount and timing of repurchases, if any, under our stock repurchase program and our ability to enhance stockholder value through such program or any other actions to provide value to stockholders; the expected impact of reductions in our workforce during the last and current fiscal year; the attraction and retention of additional qualified personnel and the retention of key personnel; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, subscriptions or technologies; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations, including the contract renewal cycles for vendor-supplied software support and managed services; our ability to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and our ability to remediate any identified material weaknesses in our internal controls; and other risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy, short-term and long-term business operations and objectives, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report, many of which are beyond our control. Moreover, we operate in very competitive and rapidly changing markets. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this Report are made as of the date of the filing, and except as required by law, we disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements in this Report. You should read this Report and the documents that we reference in this Report and have filed with the SEC as exhibits with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity and performance, as well as other events and circumstances, may be materially different from what we expect. Overview The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes to those statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, and our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2024, included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2024 Form 10-K. Certain figures, such as interest rates and other percentages included in this section have been rounded for ease of presentation. Percentage figures included in this section have not in all cases been calculated based on such rounded figures but on the basis of such amounts prior to rounding. For this reason, percentage amounts in this section may vary slightly from those obtained by performing the same calculations using the figures in our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements or in the associated text. Certain other amounts that appear in this section may similarly not sum due to rounding. Rimini Street, Inc. was formed in the State of Nevada in 2005 and, through a merger in 2017 with a public company, became Rimini Street, Inc., a Delaware corporation, trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the ticker symbol RMNI. 24 Rimini Street, Inc. and its subsidiaries (referred to as Rimini Street, the Company, we and us) are global providers of end-to-end enterprise software support, products and services. The Company offers a comprehensive family of unified solutions to run, manage, support, customize, configure, connect, protect, monitor, and optimize clients enterprise application, database, and technology software platforms. Over the years, as our reputation for technical capability, value, innovation, responsiveness and trusted reliability grew, clients and prospects began asking us to expand the scope of our support, product and service offerings to meet other current and evolving needs and opportunities related to their enterprise software. We also heard from prospects and clients that their goals include reducing the number of IT vendors to more manageable numbers from a governance perspective, with a desire to select vendors who can provide a wider scope of IT services and become true trusted partners. To meet the needs of our clients and prospects and to service what we believe is a significantly expanded addressable market opportunity, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio (our Solutions Portfolio) to a wider array of enterprise software including an expanded list of supported software for VMware; managed services for Oracle, SAP, Salesforce, IBM, ServiceNow, and open-source database software; and new solutions for security, interoperability, observability and consulting. We also offer a unified package of our services as Rimini ONE, a unique end-to-end, turnkey outsourcing option for Oracle and SAP landscapes designed to optimize our clients existing technologies with a minimum of 15 extended years of operating lifespan and enable our clients to focus their IT talent and budget on potentially higher-value, innovative projects that will support competitive advantage and growth. Enterprise software support, products and services is one of the largest categories of overall global information technology (IT) spending. We believe enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), product lifecycle management (PLM) database and technology software systems have become increasingly important in the operation of mission-critical business processes over the last 30 years. We also believe organizations are increasingly creating more complex IT environments that are a mixture of multiple technologies, business models and vendors, including perpetual license and subscription license software solutions, deployed across the clients system and cloud computing providers (hybrid IT environments), and consisting of proprietary and non-proprietary open-source software, all from a multitude of different technology vendors. The costs associated with running and supporting these systems; failure and downtime; security exposure; integrating and monitoring; and maintaining the tax, legal and regulatory compliance of these software systems, have increased in both actual spend and as a percentage of the full IT budget. As a result, we believe that licensees often view enterprise software support, products and services as a mandatory cost of doing business. The majority of our revenue through March 31, 2025, was generated from our support solutions. In a traditional licensing model, the customer typically procures a perpetual software license and pays for the license in a single upfront fee (perpetual license), and base software support services can be optionally procured from the software vendor for an annual fee that is typically 20-23% of the total cost of the software license. In a newer subscription-based licensing model, such as software as a service (SaaS), the customer generally pays for the usage of the software on a monthly or annual basis (subscription license). Under a subscription license, the product license and a base level of software support are generally bundled together as a single purchase, and the base level of software support is not procured separately nor is it an optional purchase. When we provide our support solutions for a perpetual software license, we generally offer our clients service for a fee that we believe is equal to approximately 50% of the annual fees charged by the software vendor for their base support. When providing supplemental software support for a perpetual license, where the client procures our support service in addition to retaining the software vendors base support, we generally offer our clients service for a fee that is equal to approximately 25% of the annual fees charged by the software vendor for their base support. We also offer a special support service, Rimini Street Extra Secure Support, available to clients that require a more rigorous level of security background checks and/or government security clearance for engineers accessing a clients system than our standard employment security background check and requirements. Clients may be asked to pay an additional fee for Rimini Street Extra Secure Support. In addition to our support services, we also offer a breadth of enterprise software support, products and services through our full portfolio of solutions at an additional fee that is calculated based on a variety of factors and metrics. Our solutions are designed to meet specific client needs and are designed to provide what we believe is exceptional value and return for the fees charged. For more details about our Solutions Portfolio, please see Item 1 Business included in Part I of our 2024 Form 10-K. As of March 31, 2025, we employed over 2,000 professionals and supported over 3,090 active clients globally, including 71 Fortune 500 companies and 19 Fortune Global 100 companies across a broad range of industries. We define an 25 active client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a business unit of a company that purchases our services to support a specific product. For example, we count as two separate active clients instances where we provide support for two different products to the same entity. Our subscription-based revenue provides a foundation for, and visibility into, future period results. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, we generated revenue of $104.2 million and $106.7 million, respectively, representing a decrease of 2%. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recorded net income of $3.4 million, and as of March 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $235.1 million. Approximately 48% and 50% of our revenue was generated in the United States for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Approximately 52% and 50% of our revenue was generated in foreign jurisdictions for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. In 2024, we announced that we would wind down services for Oracle PeopleSoft products and began the wind down project. The wind-down includes our Rimini Support, Rimini Manage and Rimini Consult services for Oracle PeopleSoft products. As we provide services for Oracle PeopleSoft products to clients globally, the wind-down process is expected to take place over several phases. We expect significant reductions in revenue related to support for Oracle PeopleSoft products over time, but it is unclear when we will cease providing support services for Oracle PeopleSoft products, altogether, other than at the expiration of existing remaining client contracts for such services. Revenue related to providing services for Oracle PeopleSoft products accounted for approximately $7.0 million, or 7% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and $8.2 million, or 8% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, respectively. Since our inception, we have financed our operations through cash collected from clients and net proceeds from equity financings and borrowings. Global Economic Uncertainty We have experienced some clients not renewing our services due to the adverse impact on their businesses from current global economic uncertainty, as well as by the economic disruption continuing to be caused by current military conflicts, and recent political and trade turmoil between the U.S. and other countries, amongst other global challenges. While we do not physically operate in some of these countries where conflict is occurring, we do have operations in Israel. These global events, together with inflationary pressures, have negatively impacted the global economy and driven changes in interest rates. Uncertainty regarding changes continuing to be made in laws and regulations by the current U.S. Presidential administration, along with uncertainty about the trade policies of such administration, particularly when pertaining to treaties, tariffs and other limitations on international trade, are causing economic and geopolitical uncertainty. Despite these macroeconomic and geopolitical pressures, we expect to continue to be able to market, sell and provide our current and future products and services to clients globally. We also expect to continue investing in the development and improvement of new and existing products and services to address client needs. Further, although our operations are influenced by general economic conditions, we do not believe the impacts of the economic disruptions described above had a significant net impact on our revenue or results of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2025. The extent to which rising inflation, interest rate changes and continuing global economic and geopolitical uncertainty impact our business going forward, however, will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict and that are beyond our control, including continued governmental and business actions in response to increasing global economic and geopolitical uncertainty. As such, the effects of rising inflation, interest rate increases and other negative impacts on the global economy may not be fully reflected in our financial results until future periods. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Report) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Recent Developments Reference is made to Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for a discussion of recent developments regarding our litigation with Oracle. Key Business Metrics Number of clients Since we founded our company, we have made the expansion of our client base a priority. We believe that our ability to expand our client base is an indicator of the growth of our business, the success of our sales and marketing activities, and the 26 value that our services bring to our clients. We define an active client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a business unit of a company that purchases our services to support a specific product. For example, we count as two separate active clients when support for two different products is being provided to the same entity. As of March 31, 2025 and 2024, we had 3,092 and 3,040 active clients, respectively. We define a unique client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution or a subsidiary, division or business unit of a company that purchases one or more of our products or services. We count as two separate unique clients when two separate subsidiaries, divisions or business units of an entity purchase our products or services. As of March 31, 2025 and 2024, we had 1,575 and 1,535 unique clients, respectively. The increases in both our active and unique client counts have been a combination of new unique client wins as well as cross-sales of new support products and services to existing clients. We intend to focus future growth on both new and existing clients and we believe that growth in our number of unique clients is an indication that we can grow our enterprise software products and services in the future. Annualized recurring revenue We recognize subscription revenue on a daily basis. We define annualized recurring revenue as the amount of subscription revenue recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. This gives us an indication of the revenue that can be earned in the following 12-month period from our existing client base assuming no cancellations or price changes occur during that period. Subscription revenue excludes any non-recurring revenue, which has been insignificant to date. Our annualized recurring revenue was $396 million and $416 million as of March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decline reflects the recent reduction in client retention. Revenue retention rate A key part of our business model is the recurring nature of our revenue. As a result, it is important that we retain clients after the completion of the non-cancellable portion of the support period. We believe that our revenue retention rate provides insight into the quality of our products and services and the value that our products and services provide our clients. We define revenue retention rate as the actual subscription revenue (dollar-based) recognized in a 12-month period from clients that existed on the day prior to the start of the 12-month period divided by our annualized recurring revenue as of the day prior to the start of the 12-month period. Our revenue retention rate was 88% and 89% for the 12 months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decline in our revenue retention rate for the 12 months ended March 31, 2025 was due to attrition during the trailing twelve months, as certain clients did not renew specific subscriptions due to a variety of reasons; however, in some cases these clients maintained or added subscriptions for other products and services. Our calculated net billings during the three months ended March 31, 2025 increased $5.4 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to foreign currency exchange rate changes. Gross profit margin We derive revenue through the provision of our enterprise software products and services. All the costs incurred in providing these products and services are recognized as part of the cost of revenue. The cost of revenue includes all direct product line expenses, as well as the expenses incurred by our shared services organization which supports all product lines. We define gross profit as the difference between revenue and the costs incurred in providing the software products and services. Gross profit margin is the ratio of gross profit divided by revenue. Our gross profit margin was approximately 61.0% and 59.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our gross profit margin increased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 due to better management of costs in our non-core products and services. 27 Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, are presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Variance 2025 2024 Amount Percent Revenue $ 104,204 $ 106,745 $ (2,541) (2.4)% Cost of revenue: Employee compensation and benefits 25,565 27,783 (2,218) (8.0)% Engineering consulting costs 6,145 6,463 (318) (4.9)% Administrative allocations (1) 4,262 4,039 223 5.5% All other costs 4,698 4,629 69 1.5% Total cost of revenue 40,670 42,914 (2,244) (5.2)% Gross profit 63,534 63,831 (297) (0.5)% Gross profit margin 61.0 % 59.8 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 34,255 39,141 (4,886) (12.5)% General and administrative 17,531 18,401 (870) (4.7)% Reorganization costs 462 462 N/A Litigation costs and related recoveries, net 1,925 2,926 (1,001) (34.2)% Total operating expenses 54,173 60,468 (6,295) (10.4)% Operating income 9,361 3,363 5,998 178.4% Non-operating income and (expenses): Interest expense (1,675) (1,341) (334) 24.9% Other income (expenses), net (77) 964 (1,041) (108.0)% Income before income taxes 7,609 2,986 4,623 154.8% Income taxes (4,259) (1,669) (2,590) 155.2% Net income $ 3,350 $ 1,317 $ 2,033 154.4% - (1)Includes the portion of costs for IT, security services and facilities costs that are allocated to cost of revenue. In our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the total of such costs is allocated between cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, based primarily on relative headcount, except for facilities which is based on occupancy. Revenue. Revenue declined from $106.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $104.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of $2.5 million or 2%. Although there was an increase in the average number of unique clients from 1,535 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to 1,577 for the three months ended March 31, 2025, revenue declined primarily due to the attrition of some large client contracts as certain clients did not renew specific subscriptions in prior periods due to varying reasons, which is now being reflected in our revenue within the current period. On a geographic basis, United States revenue declined from $53.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $50.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of $3.7 million or 7%. Our international revenue grew from $52.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $54.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, an increase of $1.2 million or 2%. Previously, we announced that we would reassess our wind down of services for Oracle PeopleSoft products. We have determined that we will continue to wind down these services going forward. Cost of revenue. Cost of revenue decreased from $42.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $40.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of $2.2 million or 5%. The key drivers related to the cost of 28 revenue decrease were a decline in employee compensation and benefits of $2.2 million and a $0.3 million decrease in engineering consulting costs. These costs were offset, in part, by a $0.2 million increase in administrative allocations and a $0.1 million increase in all other costs. As discussed in Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, various matters related to the Rimini II litigation have been returned to the District Court for reconsideration on remand from the Ninth Circuit. No assurance is or can be given that the District Court will rule in a manner that is favorable to us on any issues relating to the Rimini II litigation or that the District Court will not issue another permanent injunction impacting the manner in which we can provide support for Oracles PeopleSoft software product lines. Any required changes to how support services are delivered to our PeopleSoft clients could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the large number of uncertainties surrounding the final outcome of the ongoing litigation, we are unable to determine the final impact on future period costs until a decision is rendered. Gross profit. Gross profit decreased from $63.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $63.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of $0.3 million or 0.5%. Gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was 59.8% compared to 61.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2025. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the total cost of revenue decreased by 5% compared to a decline in revenue of 2% for the three months ended March 31, 2025. As a result, our gross profit margin improved by 120 basis points period over period. We expect margin pressures in the short-term as our ability to increase revenue remains challenged by a relative lack of new client contracts combined with unfavorable mix of margin level and continued investment in our new products and services. Sales and marketing expenses. As a percentage of our revenue, sales and marketing expenses were 33% and 37% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. In dollar terms, sales and marketing expenses decreased from $39.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $34.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of $4.9 million or 12%. This decline was primarily due to a reduction of $4.0 million related to travel and entertainment costs incurred as part of a sales training event held in January 2024. In addition, our employee compensation and benefits declined $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We will continue to seek additional revenue by selectively investing in resources and marketing programs that we believe will be scalable and help drive future revenue growth. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased from $18.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $17.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of $0.9 million or 5%. This decrease was comprised of several items, which included a decrease in employee compensation and benefits of $0.8 million, an increase in administrative allocations of $0.5 million and a decrease of contract labor of $0.4 million. These favorable variances were offset by an increase in all other costs of $0.3 million, an increase in professional fees of $0.2 million, an increase in rent and facility costs of $0.2 million and an increase in computer supplies, software and license costs of $0.1 million. Looking forward on a quarter-over-quarter basis, we are monitoring the demand for our services in light of current global economic conditions and competitive pressures and will adjust our expenditures accordingly. However, we expect to incur higher expenses associated with supporting the growth of our business, both in terms of size and geographical diversity. Our company costs that are expected to increase in the future include costs relating to additional information systems costs, costs for additional personnel in our accounting, human resources, IT and legal functions, SEC and Nasdaq fees, and incremental professional, legal, audit and insurance costs. As a result, we expect continued pressure on our general and administrative expenses in future periods. Reorganization costs. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we began a process to optimize our cost structure through a headcount reduction. We recognized reorganization costs of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to no costs for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The costs were primarily related to severance costs associated with our 2024 reorganization plan. We are likely to incur additional reorganization costs during the second quarter of 2025 as we continue to optimize our cost structure in areas where opportunities to streamline our operations exist. Litigation costs and related recoveries, net. Litigation costs and related recoveries, net consist of the following (in thousands): 29 Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change Professional fees and other costs of litigation $ 1,925 $ 2,926 $ (1,001) Litigation costs and related recoveries, net $ 1,925 $ 2,926 $ (1,001) Professional fees and other costs associated with litigation decreased from $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of $1.0 million. This decrease was primarily due to the timing of when the litigation costs were incurred related to our appeal of the Rimini II decision with the Ninth Circuit, which occurred on June 5, 2024. Please refer to the litigation matters as disclosed in Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for further information. Interest expense. Interest expense increased from $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Interest expense increased primarily due to borrowing $15.0 million in October 2024 under the revolving line of credit, which resulted in interest expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Our effective interest rates related to our term loan decreased from an interest rate of 8.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to an interest rate of 8.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2025. The interest expense for the term loan increased by $0.1 million due to a higher principal balance outstanding for the respective periods. Other income (expenses), net. Other income (expenses), net is primarily comprised of interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses, and other non-operating income and expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net other expenses of approximately $0.1 million was comprised primarily of foreign exchange losses of $0.5 million and other expenses of $0.1 million, which were offset by interest income from cash and cash equivalents of $0.6 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net other income of approximately $1.0 million was comprised primarily of gains from cash equivalents and investments. Income taxes. We had an income tax expense of $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the primary reason for the change in income taxes was due to an increase of income before taxes of $4.6 million in the current year period compared to the prior year period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of March 31, 2025, we had a working capital deficit of $60.1 million and an accumulated deficit of $235.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recorded net income of $3.4 million. As of March 31, 2025, we had available cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $123.8 million. In April 2024, we refinanced our Original Credit Facility, which had an outstanding principal balance of $70.9 million, with a new five-year senior secured credit facility (2024 Credit Facility) consisting of a $75.0 million term loan and a $35.0 million revolving line of credit. As of March 31, 2025, we had outstanding term loan borrowings of $72.2 million as well as borrowings on the revolving line of credit of $15.0 million under our 2024 Credit Facility. As a result, we had net availability of $20.0 million under our revolving line of credit as of March 31, 2025. We have a choice of interest rates under the 2024 Credit Facility between (a) SOFR and (b) Base Rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin remains the same as the Original Credit Facility and is based on our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2024 Credit Facility) and whether we elect SOFR (ranging from 2.75% to 3.50%) or a Base Rate (ranging from 1.75% to 2.5%). Interest on the unused portion of the revolving credit line is at rates of between 25 to 40 basis points, depending on our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio. Annual minimum principal payments over 30 the five-year term for the 2024 Credit Facility are 5%, 5%, 7.5%, 7.5%, and 10%, respectively, with the remaining balance due at the end of the original term. The 2024 Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio greater than 1.25, a total leverage ratio less than 3.75, and a minimum liquidity balance of at least $20 million in U.S. cash. We believe that we are in compliance with these financials covenants for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Please refer to Note 5 to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for information regarding our 2024 Credit Facility. A key component of our business model requires that substantially all clients prepay us annually for the services we will provide over the following year or longer. As a result, we typically collect cash from our clients in advance of when the related service costs are incurred, which resulted in deferred revenue of $234.8 million that is included in current liabilities as of March 31, 2025. Therefore, we believe that working capital deficit is not as meaningful in evaluating our liquidity since the costs of fulfilling our commitments to provide services to clients are currently limited to approximately 39% of the related deferred revenue based on our gross profit percentage of 61% for the three months ended March 31, 2025. For the next year, assuming that our operations are not significantly impacted by rising inflation, continued interest rate changes, other global economic or geopolitical uncertainties, political and trade turmoil between the U.S. and China and other countries, or the litigation matters as disclosed in Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, we believe that cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $123.8 million as of March 31, 2025, plus future cash flows from operating activities and our 2024 Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs including working capital requirements, planned capital expenditures and our contractual obligations. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including client growth, number of employees, expansion of sales and marketing activities, and the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings. We may also enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, or intellectual property rights in the future. We may choose to seek additional debt or equity financing to support these long-term capital requirements. In an economic downturn, we may also be unable to raise capital through debt or equity financings on terms acceptable to us or at all. Covenants in our 2024 Credit Facility could also have consequences on our operations, including restricting or delaying our ability to obtain additional financing, potentially limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions or respond to business opportunities. Additionally, in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict when macroeconomic uncertainty may arise, whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business and our liquidity requirements. Cash Flows Summary Presented below is a summary of our operating, investing and financing cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 33,708 $ 11,088 Investing activities (895) 8,654 Financing activities (1,026) (1,775) The effect of foreign currency translation changes was favorable for $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to an unfavorable impact of $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, respectively, due to favorable foreign exchange impacts related to our foreign cash. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we experienced a change in foreign currency exchange rates as the U.S. dollar weakened against the majority of foreign currencies where we operate. The favorable foreign currency impact was primarily related to our foreign cash held in Japan, Brazil and the United Kingdom as those local currencies strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities As clients typically prepay us annually for the services which we will provide over the following year or longer, we typically collect cash in advance of the date when the vast majority of the related services are provided. Historically, we have 31 experienced seasonality in our operating cash flows as we tend to generate cash from operating activities during the first half of the year. Our operating cash flows are then utilized by operating activities during the second half of the year. This has been due to the cyclical variations in our billings from period to period. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash flows provided by operating activities amounted to approximately $33.7 million. The key drivers resulting in our cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025, included net income of $3.4 million and adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash totaling $7.4 million, as well as favorable changes in operating assets and liabilities of $22.9 million, resulting in net cash provided by operating activities of $33.7 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $2.7 million, amortization and accretion related to operating lease ROU assets of $1.2 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.9 million, accretion and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $0.2 million and a favorable change in deferred income taxes of $2.5 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, net consisted of favorable changes to accounts receivable of $57.5 million and deferred contract costs of $2.0 million. The favorable change to accounts receivable was a result of collecting $134.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025 which was offset by billings, net of $79.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025. As a result, our days sales outstanding for accounts receivable was 97 days as of March 31, 2025. The favorable change in deferred contract costs was due to capitalizing $2.7 million of commissions and amortizing $4.7 million of deferred contract costs during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Offsetting these favorable changes were unfavorable changes to deferred revenue of $27.7 million, accrued compensation, benefits, commissions and other liabilities of $7.3 million, prepaid expenses, deposits and other of $1.2 million and accounts payable of $0.4 million. The use of cash for deferred revenue was due to recognizing $104.2 million in revenue for the current period, which was offset by recording billings, net of $79.4 million during the current period. The unfavorable use of accrued liabilities was primarily due to the payments of $4.3 million for bonuses and of $2.2 million for commissions during the three months ended March 31, 2025. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash flows provided by operating activities amounted to approximately $11.1 million. The key drivers resulting in our cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024, included net income of $1.3 million and adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash totaling $4.0 million, as well as favorable changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.7 million, resulting in net cash provided by operating activities of $11.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $2.6 million, amortization and accretion related to operating lease ROU assets of $1.1 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.9 million and accretion and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $0.2 million. These favorable items were offset by deferred income taxes of $0.8 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, net consisted of favorable changes to accounts receivable of $39.8 million, prepaid expenses, deposits and other assets of $3.5 million and deferred contract costs of $2.5 million. The favorable change to accounts receivable was a result of collecting $116.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 which was offset by billings, net of $74.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. As a result, our days sales outstanding for accounts receivable was 97 days as of March 31, 2024. The favorable change in deferred contract costs was due to capitalizing $2.5 million of commissions and amortizing $5.0 million of deferred contract costs during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Offsetting these favorable changes were unfavorable changes to accrued liabilities of $8.4 million, deferred revenue of $29.3 million and accounts payable of $2.3 million. The unfavorable use of cash for accrued liabilities related primarily to paying incremental compensation related to bonuses and commissions of $8.1 million during the current period. The use of cash for deferred revenue was due to recognizing $106.7 million in revenue for the current period, which was offset by recording billings, net of $74.1 million during the current period. Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities totaled $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and cash provided by investing activities totaled $8.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by capital expenditures for leasehold improvements, software development costs, and computer equipment of $0.9 million. Specifically, these capital expenditures included construction in 32 progress for leasehold improvements in Brazil of $0.4 million and Korea of $0.1 million, as well as capitalized software development costs in our U.S. entity of $0.3 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments of $17.3 million offset by purchases of short-term investments of $7.5 million and capital expenditures for leasehold improvements, software development costs, and computer equipment of $1.2 million. The capital expenditures consisted primarily of capitalized software development costs, new computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures in our U.S. entity of $0.7 million and $0.4 million for computer equipment at our foreign locations, primarily in Brazil of $0.2 million and in India of $0.2 million. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash utilized in financing activities of $1.0 million was attributable to principal payments related to the 2024 Credit Facility of $0.9 million and capital lease payments of $0.1 million. These activities were offset, in part, by proceeds from stock option exercises of $6 thousand. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash utilized in financing activities of $1.8 million was attributable to principal payments related to the Original Credit Facility of $1.7 million and capital lease payments of $0.1 million. Foreign Subsidiaries Our foreign subsidiaries and branches are dependent on our U.S.-based parent for continued funding. We currently do not intend to repatriate any amounts that have been invested overseas back to the U.S.-based parent. However, we may still be liable for withholding taxes, state taxes, or other income taxes that might be incurred upon the repatriation of foreign earnings. We have not made any provision for additional income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. As of March 31, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents of $26.1 million held by our foreign subsidiaries. Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the reported revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These items are monitored and analyzed for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Changes in estimates are reflected in reported results for the period in which they become known. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2024, included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2024 Form 10-K, and we discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7 of our 2024 Form 10-K. Since the filing of our 2024 Form 10-K, there have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed therein. Recent Accounting Pronouncements From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the FASB or other standard setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. For additional information on recently issued accounting standards and our plans for adoption of those standards, please refer to the section titled Recent Accounting Pronouncements under Note 2 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income - Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses," and in January 2025, the FASB issued ASU 2025-01, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income - Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Clarifying the Effective Date." ASU 2024-03 requires additional disclosure of the nature of expenses included in the income statement as well as disclosures about specific types of expenses included in the expense captions 33 presented in the income statement. ASU 2024-03, as clarified by ASU 2025-01, is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2026 and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2027 on a prospective basis. Both early adoption and retrospective application are permitted. We are assessing the impact of the adoption of these standards on our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures. We believe that no other recently issued accounting standards will have a material impact on our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements or apply to our operations.