Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 28, 2015 as a Cayman Islands exempted company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, the sale of warrants in a private placement that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our shares, debt or a combination of these as the consideration to be paid in our initial business combination. Recent Events On April 19, 2016, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended on July 28, 2016, the Merger Agreement), by and among the Company, Lets Go Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, WKI Holding Company, Inc. (WKI), and, solely in its capacity as the initial Holder Representative thereunder, WKI Group, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we agreed to acquire all of the outstanding capital stock of WKI, the parent company of World Kitchen, LLC, a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of houseware products. On November 11, 2016, the parties entered into a letter terminating the Merger Agreement, effective November 11, 2016. Results of Operations Since the completion of our Initial Public Offering, we have not generated any operating revenues and will not generate such revenues until after the completion of our business combination. All activity from inception to December 31, 2016 relates to our formation, our Initial Public Offering and private placement and the identification and evaluation of prospective candidates for a business combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and securities held, which we expect to be insignificant in view of the low yields on short-term government securities. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. 26 For the year ended December 31, 2016, we had a net loss of $2,861,165, mainly consisting of target identification expenses, transaction expenses relating to the terminated business combination with WKI and other operating costs of $3,334,903 and an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $11,618, offset by interest earned on securities in the Trust Account of $485,356. For the period from January 28, 2015 (inception) through December 31, 2015, we had a net loss of $130,726. The results of operations mainly consist of operating costs, offset by interest earned on securities in the Trust Account. Liquidity and Capital Resources On May 26, 2015, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 17,250,000 Units, which includes the exercise by the underwriters of their entire over-allotment option in the amount of 2,250,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $172,500,000 before underwriting discounts and expenses. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of an aggregate of 6,062,500 Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant in a private placement to GPIC, Ltd, a Bermuda company, generating gross proceeds of $6,062,500. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one ordinary share at $11.50 per share. We received net proceeds from our Initial Public Offering and sale of the Private Placement Warrants of $173,639,410, net of $4,312,500 cash paid for underwriting fees and $610,590 cash paid for offering costs. In addition, up to $6,037,500 of underwriting fees were deferred until the closing of a business combination. Upon the closing of our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants, $172,500,000 was placed into the Trust Account, while the remaining funds were placed in an account outside of the Trust Account for working capital purposes. As of December 31, 2016, we had cash and marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $173,051,990 (including approximately $552,000 of interest income which is available to pay our income tax obligations) consisting of cash and U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be available to us to pay taxes and up to $100,000 of our dissolution expenses. Through December 31, 2016, we did not withdraw any funds from the interest earned on the Trust Account. Other than deferred underwriting fees payable in the event of a business combination, no amounts are payable to the underwriters of our Initial Public Offering. As of December 31, 2016, we had cash of $1,551 held outside the Trust Account, which is available for use by us to cover the costs associated with identifying a target business and negotiating a business combination and other general corporate uses. In addition, as of December 31, 2016, we had accounts payable and accrued expenses of $63,009, primarily representing amounts owed to certain service providers and advisors who have advised us on matters related to the terminated business combination with WKI. We have entered into fee arrangements with certain service providers and advisors pursuant to which certain fees incurred by us in connection with the terminated business combination with WKI will be deferred and become payable only if we consummate an initial business combination. If an initial business combination does not occur, we will not be required to pay these contingent fees. As of December 31, 2016, the amount of these contingent fees was approximately $3,993,000. To the extent a potential initial business combination is consummated, we anticipate incurring a significant amount of additional costs. There can be no assurances that we will complete any initial business combination. For the year ended December 31, 2016, cash used in operating activities amounted to $3,501,579, mainly resulting from a net loss of $2,861,165 and interest earned on the Trust Account of $485,356, offset by an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $11,618. Changes in working capital provided $166,676 of cash for operating activities. For the period from January 28, 2015 (inception) through December 31, 2015, cash used in operating activities amounted to $196,961, mainly resulting from a net loss of $130,726, interest earned on the Trust Account of $61,682 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities of $16,570. Changes in working capital provided $12,017 of cash for operating activities. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account (less amounts used to pay taxes and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, structure, negotiate and complete a business combination, pay taxes to the extent the interest earned on the Trust Account is insufficient to pay our taxes and pay our NASDAQ annual fee. 27 Based upon (i) amounts held outside the Trust Account, (ii) interest earned on the Trust Account available to be released to the Company for that payment of income tax obligations and (iii) loans that the Sponsor has committed to provide to the Company, in each case as described herein, we believe we have sufficient cash to operate our business through the earlier of a consummation of a business combination or May 26, 2017, the date that the Company will be required to cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, if a business combination is not consummated. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating an initial business combination are less than the actual amounts necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our business combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the trust account. In addition, following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-balance sheet financing arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or enter into any non-financial agreements involving assets. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an administrative agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor, a total of $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial support and administrative services, commencing on the date our securities are first listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Upon the earlier of the completion of the initial business combination or the Companys liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Significant Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following significant accounting policy: Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption We account for our ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, the ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheet.