Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of COVID-19 for additional information on this topic. Finally, through the Rimini Street Foundation, which is privately funded by the Company, we encourage our employees to support humankind and share our companys success by investing back into the communities we serve through in-kind donations, employee time and Company financial support. As of December 31, 2021, we employed over 1,660 professionals globally. We also engage temporary employees and consultants as needed. None of our U.S. based employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our non-U.S. based employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in particular jurisdictions, as required by local labor laws. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be very good. Technology Infrastructure and Operations We have IT infrastructure and staff globally. Our operations support our client offerings, compliance requirements and future global expansion. To connect to systems owned, leased or otherwise controlled by our clients, we utilize site-to-site tunnels and virtual private networks with secure firewall administration underpinned with a high level of global network reliability, security and performance. We maintain a formal and comprehensive information security management system, which is certified to ISO 27001: 2013. It is designed to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of client data, protect against security threats or data breaches, and prevent unauthorized access to the data of our customers. We strictly regulate and limit all access to our offices, have deployed advanced security software and hardware, and utilize advanced security measures. Compliance and Certifications ISO certifications are part of our commitment to developing and executing best-in-class processes to ensure our clients consistently receive exceptional service. We have achieved and maintain ISO 9001 and ISO 27001 certifications. In 2010, we achieved ISO 9001 Quality Management System certification for Third-party provider of enterprise software support services specifically on-boarding of client and client environments. In 2011, we expanded our certification for Provision of third-party enterprise software support services specifically on-boarding of client, building of client environments, worldwide tax and regulatory research and delivery of tax and regulatory updates. In 2012, we expanded our certification for Global provision of enterprise software support services, including client onboarding; client account management; product support for vendor delivered and client customized code; fix development and delivery; and research, development and delivery of worldwide tax, legal and regulatory updates. The certification process verifies that detailed processes for relevant business areas are reviewed, continuously monitored and improved to ensure services and deliverables are consistently delivered with excellence. During 2018, the ISO standard was upgraded. Our current ISO 9001:2015 -11- certification was issued in December 2019 and is valid until December 2022. During this certification cycle, annual surveillance audits are conducted to validate ongoing compliance to the requirements. In 2013, we achieved worldwide ISO 27001 information security certification for our support services. ISO 27001 is a security standard covering The information security management system that supports the global provisioning of third-party software maintenance services. Independent assessments of our conformity to the ISO 27001 standard includes evaluating security risks, designing and implementing comprehensive security controls and adopting an information security management process to meet security needs on an ongoing basis. Our current ISO 27001:2013 certification was issued in July 2019 and is valid until April 2022. During this certification cycle, annual surveillance audits are conducted to validate ongoing compliance to the requirements. Competition We compete in the markets for enterprise software support products and services and management services. The support market has been dominated by the enterprise software vendors as the primary support providers for their own products. We believe the competitive service market with new independent competitors is still relatively undeveloped and maturing. As a result, we believe our primary competition today comes from the enterprise software vendors who license the products we service, such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle and SAP. We expect that continued growth in our market could lead to significantly increased competition resulting from new entrants. In the meantime, our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to engage an independent service vendor such as us to provide software maintenance and support services for their enterprise software. The AMS market is dominated by large system integrators and consulting firms. In contrast to the support market, the AMS market is highly competitive and historically, price has been a significant factor in vendor selection. We expect this market to continue to be highly competitive. Our growth in management services will rely in part on our ability to differentiate the value and benefits of our fully integrated support and management solutions compared to current offerings or internal resources. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: track record of technical capability to provide the required software support; ability to identify, develop and deliver required tax, legal and regulatory updates; infrastructure model to deliver support globally within guaranteed service levels; track record of providing a high level of client satisfaction; ease of support model onboarding, deployment and usage; breadth and depth of support functionality, including the ability to support customized software; cost of products and services; brand awareness and reputation; capability for delivering services in a secure, scalable and reliable manner; ability to innovate and respond to client needs rapidly; and size of referenceable client base. We believe we compete favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors. Our support management model allows us to gain an in-depth understanding of a given clients unique software environment, enabling rapid and accurate responses to the clients support requests. We provide our clients with comprehensive software support and management capabilities, including full support for add-ons and custom code as part of our services, something that, based on managements experience and belief, enterprise software vendors typically do not provide with their standard support offering. We also offer our clients a relative discount to the fees they would otherwise pay their enterprise software vendor for their support services and enable them to avoid or defer undesired, costly upgrades. By eliminating unnecessary upgrades, additional resources to support customizations and providing savings on support fees, based on managements experience, belief and estimates, our clients can save up to approximately 1.5 times their traditional vendor base support fees per year when using our base support services over a 10-year period. We have also invested significant resources developing our unique service methodologies and a data capture and management process to deliver comprehensive tax, legal and regulatory updates tailored for each client. However, we believe some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, greater name recognition and deeper customer relationships. Additionally, many software licensees are reluctant to engage a smaller independent company such as us to -12- provide software maintenance and support services for their enterprise application software, choosing instead to continue relying on support services provided by their enterprise software vendor. We expect competition and competitive pressure, both from new and existing competitors, to increase in the future. Intellectual Property We rely on federal, state, common law and international rights, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect our intellectual property consisting of a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, domain names and patented technology. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties, such as service providers, vendors, individuals and entities that may be exploring a business relationship with us. On December 17, 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted Rimini Street its first patent, U.S. Patent No. 10,509,639 for the invention Automatic Software-Update Framework. On August 18, 2020, the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted Rimini Street its second patent, U.S. Patent No. 10,749,926 for the invention Proxy for Modifying HTTP Messages to Comply with Browser, and on November 23,2021, the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted Rimini Street its third patent, U.S. Patent No. 11,182,707 for the invention "Case Assignment Advisor," which is a proprietary artificial intelligence (AI) based application. We currently have four patent applications pending in the United States. We own U.S. Patent No. 10,509,639 which will expire in August 2035, U.S. Patent No. 10,749,926 which will expire in September 2034, and U.S. Patent No. 11,182,707 which will expire in July 2039, as long as the patent maintenance fees are paid during the corresponding fee payment windows. We maintain trademark registrations for the Rimini Street and Engineered for Support trademarks in the United States. We also maintain trademark registrations for Rimini Street in Canada, the European Union, China, Japan, India, Australia and certain other countries. Such registered trademarks will expire unless renewed at various times in the future. We have also applied for registration of Rimini Street as a trademark in certain other countries. Policing unauthorized use of our processes and software tools and intellectual property rights is difficult. As of December 31, 2021, we are not aware of any breaches of our intellectual property rights. Information about our Executive Officers. The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of our executive officers as of March 2, 2022: Name Age Position Executive Officers Seth A. Ravin 55 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Gerard Brossard 57 Chief Operating Officer Sebastian Grady 58 President Nancy Lyskawa 59 Executive Vice President, Global Client Onboarding Kevin Maddock 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Recurring Revenue Officer Michael L. Perica 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer David Rowe 56 Executive Vice President, Global Transformation Steven Salaets 44 Chief Information Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Shared Services Brian Slepko 58 Executive Vice President, Global Service Delivery Seth A. Ravin founded our company and has served as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board since September 2005 and also served as our President from September 2005 to January 2011. Mr. Ravin has served as a member of our board of directors since September 2005. Prior to founding Rimini Street, Mr. Ravin served in various executive roles at TomorrowNow, Inc. from May 2002 to April 2005, most recently as President and a board director. TomorrowNow, Inc. was a supplier of software maintenance and support services for Oracles PeopleSoft and J.D. Edwards applications, and was acquired in January 2005 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of SAP America, Inc. From April 2000 to March 2001, Mr. Ravin served as Vice President of Inside Sales for Saba Software, Inc., a provider of e-Learning and human resource management software. From April 1996 to April 2000, Mr. Ravin served in various management roles at PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle), most recently -13- as a Vice President of the Customer Sales Division. Mr. Ravin holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the University of Southern California. Gerard Brossard has served as our Chief Operating Officer since March 2021. Previously, he served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since joining the Company in June 2020. He sits on the business advisory council of Illuminate Ventures and participates on multiple strategic advisory boards of enterprise SaaS start-ups. Prior to joining us, in addition to his strategic advisory board service, which began in 2013, from August 2017 until September 2019, Mr. Brossard served in multiple capacities at Rackspace, most recently as its EVP and GM of Global Solutions and Services where he was responsible for all products, solutions and services. From April 2015 until March 2017, he served as EVP and Managing Director, Enterprise and Mid-Market at Earthlink. Earlier in his career, Mr. Brossard spent 24 years with Hewlett-Packard where he held various executive positions in France and the US. Mr. Brossard holds a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Physics from Externat Sainte Marie de Lyon, France, and a Masters in Computer Science from Universite Claude Bernard in Lyon, France. Sebastian Grady has served as our President since January 2011. Prior to joining us, Mr. Grady served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Altus Corporation, a provider of video search and management software for sales enablement, from March 2005 to January 2011. From October 2000 to October 2001, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Saba Software, Inc. From March 1993 to October 2000, Mr. Grady served in various executive roles with PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation), most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Customer Sales Division from March 1997 to October 2000. From February 1987 to March 1993, Mr. Grady served in various roles with Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Grady holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Nancy Lyskawa has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Client Onboarding since March 2020. Previously she served as our Senior Vice President, Global Client Onboarding since joining the Company in September 2009. Prior to joining us, Ms. Lyskawa was with Oracle Corporation, a computer technology company, from December 2004 to September 2009, where she served in various executive roles, most recently as Vice President, Support Services and Marketing, from August 2005 to September 2009. From March 1994 to December 2004, she served as head of Global Services Marketing for PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation). From May 1986 to March 1994, Ms. Lyskawa served in various roles with Electronic Data Systems Corporation (acquired by Hewlett-Packard Company). Ms. Lyskawa is a Certified Management Accountant (CMA). Ms. Lyskawa holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting and Finance from the University of North Dakota and a Masters Certificate in Marketing from the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University. Kevin Maddock has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Recurring Revenue Officer since March 2021. Previously, he served as our Executive Vice President, Global Sales - Recurring Revenue from March 2020 until March 2021, our Senior Vice President, Global Sales - Recurring Revenue from January 2018 to March 2020 and our Senior Vice President, Global Sales from December 2008 to January 2018. Prior to joining us, Mr. Maddock served as Executive Vice President of Worldwide Inside Sales and Operations for ServiceSource, a recurring revenue management company, from October 2004 to March 2008. From May 1998 to September 2004, Mr. Maddock served as Vice President of Worldwide Support Service Sales at PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle). From September 1995 to May 1998, Mr. Maddock served in multiple roles at KPMG Consulting. From August 1987 to April 1993, Mr. Maddock served in various roles at Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Maddock holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance with Honors from the University of Notre Dame and a Masters of Business Administration from the Anderson School of Management at UCLA. Michael L. Perica has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2020. Prior to joining us, Mr. Perica served as Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the $1.2 billion Energy Systems Global business unit at Enersys (NYSE: ENS), a global leader in stored energy solutions. Mr. Perica joined Enersys in December 2018 as the result of Enersys acquisition of Alpha Technologies, where he led the sell-side process as Alpha Technologies Chief Financial Officer. Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer in August 2015, he served as Alpha Technologies Vice President, International Finance and Operations since November 2013. Prior to his tenure at Alpha Technologies, Perica served as the Chief Financial Officer of Channell Commercial Corporation and spent 12 years as a sell-side analyst on Wall Street where he worked in senior publishing analyst positions at various investment banks. Mr. Perica holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting from Central Michigan University and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Southern California, Marshall School of Business. David Rowe has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Transformation since September 2021. Previously, he served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from March 2020 to September 2021, our Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from April 2012 to March 2020, our Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and Alliances from December 2008 to April 2012 and our Vice President Marketing and Alliances from September 2006 to -14- December 2008. Prior to joining us, Mr. Rowe served as Vice President of Product Management and Marketing at Perfect Commerce, Inc., an eProcurement company, from November 2004 to June 2006. From May 1995 to June 1999, Mr. Rowe held various positions with PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation), most recently serving as Director, Product Strategy. From July 1988 to April 1995, Mr. Rowe served in various roles at Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Rowe holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering from Harvey Mudd College. Steven Salaets joined our company in 2009 and has served as our Chief Information Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Shared Services since January 2022. Previously, he served as our Chief Information Officer, Chief People Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Security, Facilities, Quality and Internal Audit from July 2020 to January 2022, our Chief Information Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Security, Internal Audit and Quality from March 2020 until July 2020, our Chief Information Officer & Senior Vice President, Global Security, Quality and Internal Audit from December 2019 until March 2020 and our Senior Vice President, Global Security & Compliance and Chief Information Officer from August 2018 to December 2019. Prior to that, he served as our Group Vice President, Information Technology & Global Security, Compliance and Internal Audit (December 2016 to July 2018) and our Group Vice President, Global Human Resources and Global Security, Risk and Compliance (September 2013 to November 2016). Prior to September 2013, he held multiple other senior and director-level roles within our company focused on global security, risk and compliance. Prior to joining our company Mr. Salaets held management-level positions with Moodys KMV and Wind River. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from Groep-T in Leuven, Belgium. Brian Slepko has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Service Delivery, since March 2020. Previously, he served as our Senior Vice President, Global Service Delivery since joining us in 2008 and served as a member of our board of directors from October 2006 to July 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Slepko was with Oracle Corporation, which he joined as part of Oracles acquisition of Agile Software, Inc., an enterprise software solutions company. From July 2005 to June 2007, Mr. Slepko served as Vice President of Global Maintenance Revenue and Sales Operations at Agile Software. From March 2003 to February 2005, Mr. Slepko served as a Director of Sales Operations for Ocular Sciences, Inc. From August 1995 to May 2001, Mr. Slepko served in a variety of roles with PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation), most recently serving as Director, Sales Operations. From January 1990 to August 1995, Mr. Slepko held various roles with Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Slepko holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Management and Management Information Systems from the University of Oklahoma and a Masters of Business Administration from Loyola University of Chicago. Available Information We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as well as our other SEC filings, available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website address is www.riministreet.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this, or any other, SEC filing. Item 1A. Risk Factors Various factors could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any of the principal factors described in this section or other risks described elsewhere in this Report could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. If any of these factors should materialize, the trading price of our securities and the value of your investment might significantly decline. You should also refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements under Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements set forth in the introduction to Part I of this Report. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. The following is a summary of some of the principal risk factors which are more fully described below. Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry Since 2010, we have been involved in continuing litigation with Oracle. An adverse outcome in the litigation could result in the payment of substantial damages and/or an injunction against certain of our business practices. The Oracle software products that are part of our litigation represent a significant portion of our revenue. Our ongoing litigation with Oracle presents challenges for growing our business. Oracle has a history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products. The duration of and continued impacts on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the responsive actions taken by governments or clients, may have a material adverse effect on our business. -15- The market for independent software support services is relatively undeveloped and may not grow. We face significant competition. We have had a history of losses and may not achieve or sustain revenue growth or profitability in the future. If we are unable to attract new clients or retain and sell additional products or services to existing clients, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the relevant contract, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our results of operations. Our future liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of new orders, the level of client renewals and cash receipts from clients. Our past growth is not indicative of future growth, and, if we grow rapidly, we may not be able to manage our growth effectively. Our failure to generate significant capital or raise additional capital necessary to fund our operations and invest in new services and products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes others intellectual property rights. The loss of one or more key employees could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel or to expand our marketing and sales capacities could prevent us from executing our business strategy. Interruptions to or degraded performance of our services, including as a result of interruptions or performance problems with technologies provided by third parties, could result in client dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, loss of clients, limited growth and reduction in revenue. We may experience fluctuations in our results of operations due to the sales cycles for our products and services, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations or our guidance. We may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability, interest and/or penalties for past sales, which could adversely harm our business. We may need to change our pricing to compete successfully. If we are not able to scale our business quickly and grow efficiently, our results of operations could be harmed. Our business will be susceptible to risks associated with global operations as our growth strategy involves further expansion of our sales to clients outside the United States . Consolidation in our target sales markets is continuing at a rapid pace, which could harm our business. If there is a widespread shift by clients or potential clients to enterprise software vendors, products and releases for which we do not provide software products or services, our business would be adversely impacted. Cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication; if our data security measures are compromised or our services are perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or cease their use of our services, our reputation may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. We are subject to governmental and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. If we are not able to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Economic uncertainties or downturns in the general economy or the industries in which our clients operate could disproportionately affect the demand for our products and services and negatively impact our results of operations. If we fail to enhance our brand, our ability to expand our client base will be impaired. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive position could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. The amount of and ultimate realization of the benefits from the net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes is dependent, in part, upon future events, the effects of which cannot be determined; if we are not able to use a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards, our profitability could be adversely affected. We are a multinational organization, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. Reports published by analysts, including projections in those reports that differ from our actual results, could adversely affect the price and trading volume of our Common Stock. Risks Related to our Indebtedness, Capitalization Matters and Corporate Governance Our level of indebtedness and any future indebtedness we may incur may limit our operational and financing flexibility. The terms of our Credit Facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly. The price of our Common Stock, warrants and units may be volatile. Any issuance of Common Stock upon the exercise of warrants will cause dilution to existing stockholders and may depress the market price of our Common Stock. -16- Certain of our common stockholders can exercise significant control, which could limit our stockholders ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our most significant stockholders hold registration rights with respect to our common stock, and future resales of our Common Stock held by significant stockholders may cause the market price of our Common Stock to drop significantly. Our stock repurchase program could affect the price of our Common Stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our Common Stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock. The DGCL and our organizational documents contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to take certain actions and could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, stockholders or employees could be limited by our choice of forum in our bylaws. Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry Risks Related to Litigation We and our Chief Executive Officer have been involved in continuing litigation with Oracle since 2010. An adverse outcome in the ongoing litigation could result in the payment of substantial damages and/or an injunction against certain of our business practices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In January 2010, certain subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation (together with its subsidiaries individually and collectively, Oracle) filed a lawsuit, Oracle USA, Inc. et al v. Rimini Street, Inc. et al (United States District Court for the District of Nevada) (District Court), against us and our Chief Executive Officer, Seth Ravin, alleging that certain of our processes (Process 1.0) violated Oracles license agreements with its customers and that we committed acts of copyright infringement and violated other federal and state laws (Rimini I). The litigation involved our business processes and the manner in which we provided our services to our clients. After completion of jury trial in 2015 and subsequent appeals, the final outcome of Rimini I was that Mr. Ravin was found not liable for any claims and we were found liable for only one claim: innocent infringement, a jury finding that we did not know and had no reason to know that our former support processes were infringing. The jury also found that the infringement did not cause Oracle to suffer lost profits. We were ordered to pay a judgment of $124.4 million in 2016, which we promptly paid and then pursued appeals. With interest, attorneys fees and costs, the total judgment paid by us to Oracle after the completion of all appeals was approximately $89.9 million. A portion of such judgment was paid by our insurance carriers (for additional information on this topic, see Note 10 to our audited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report). Since November 2018, we have been subject to a permanent injunction which prohibits us from using certain support processes that had been found in Rimini I to innocently infringe certain Oracle copyrights. On July 10, 2020, Oracle filed a motion to show cause contending that we are in contempt of the injunction, which we opposed. On January 12, 2022, the District Court issued its findings and order, following an evidentiary hearing held in September 2021, regarding whether (i) we violated the injunction for certain accused conduct and (ii) should be held in contempt in those instances where the District Court found a violation of the injunction, and what sanctions, if any, are appropriate. In the order, the District Court ruled in favor of us with respect to five out of ten items. With respect to the other five items, the District Court found that we violated the permanent injunction, awarded sanctions to Oracle of $0.6 million and ordered that certain computer files be quarantined from use and notice and proof of such quarantining be provided to Oracle. The District Court also ruled that Oracle may recover its reasonable attorneys fees and costs. We reserve all rights, including appellate rights, with respect to the District Court rulings and findings. On February 7, 2022, we filed a notice of appeal in the District Court, commencing an appeal of the District Courts January 12, 2022 decision. At this time, we believe that we are substantial compliance with the injunction and have complied with the order regarding the quarantining of certain computer files. On February 8, 2022, the District Court stayed the briefing on Oracles bill of attorneys fees and costs until our appeal is resolved. As of December 31, 2021, we have accrued $7.5 million, consisting of $0.6 million for the awarded sanctions and $6.9 million for an estimate related to reasonable attorneys fees and costs. Regarding our estimate for reasonable attorneys fees and costs, significant judgment is required to determine the amount of loss related to this matter as the outcome is inherently unpredictable and subject to uncertainties. Oracle may file additional contempt motions against us at any time to attempt to enforce its interpretation of the injunction or if it has reason to believe we are not in compliance with the express terms of the injunction. Such contempt -17- proceedings or any judicial finding of contempt could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, the pendency of the injunction, alone, or the District Courts January 12, 2022 order relating to the injunction described above, could dissuade clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase our services. If we are obligated to pay substantial civil assessments arising from any finding of contempt, this could reduce the amount of cash flows available to pay principal, interest, fees and other amounts due under our Credit Facility, which could result in an event of default, in which case the lenders could demand accelerated payment of principal, accrued and unpaid interest, and other fees. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets which would allow us to repay such indebtedness in full at such time. As a result, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In October 2014, we filed a separate lawsuit, Rimini Street Inc. v. Oracle Intl Corp. , in the District Court against Oracle seeking a declaratory judgment that our support practices, in use since at least July 2014, do not infringe certain Oracle copyrights (Rimini II). Our operative complaint asserts declaratory judgment, tort, and statutory claims. Oracles operative counterclaim asserts declaratory judgment and copyright infringement claims and Lanham Act, breach of contract, and business tort violations. On September 15, 2020, the District Court issued an order resolving the parties motions for summary judgment. It found infringement of 17 Oracle PeopleSoft copyrights for work we performed for a discrete set of gap customers that were supported by processes litigated in Rimini I, and that became our customers after Rimini I was filed. The District Court also found infringement of four Oracle PeopleSoft copyrights involving support of two specific clients, described by the District Court as limited cases and involving limited circumstance[s]. There was no finding of infringement on any other Oracle copyrights at issue. We could be required to pay substantial damages for our current or past business activities and/or be enjoined from certain business practices. Any of these outcomes could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and the pendency of the litigation alone could dissuade clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase our services. If we are obligated to pay substantial damages to Oracle or are enjoined from certain business practices, this could reduce the amount of cash flows available to pay principal, interest, fees and other amounts due under our Credit Facility, which could result in an event of default, in which case the lenders could demand accelerated payment of principal, accrued and unpaid interest, and other fees. If we default in our payment obligations under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our business has been and may continue to be materially harmed by this litigation and Oracles conduct. During the course of these cases, we anticipate there will be rulings by the District Court in Rimini II, the District Court in Rimini I, and possibly the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Court of Appeals) in both Rimini I and Rimini II in connection with hearings, motions, decisions, and other matters, as well as other interim developments related to the litigations. If securities analysts or investors regard these rulings as negative, the market price of our Common Stock may decline. If current or prospective clients regard these rulings as negative, it could negatively impact our new client sales or renewal sales. While we plan to continue to vigorously litigate the pending matters in Rimini I and Rimini II, we are unable to predict the timing or outcome of these lawsuits. No assurance is or can be given that we will prevail on any appeal, contempt proceeding, claim, or counterclaim. See the section titled Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 and Note 10 of our audited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for more information related to this litigation. The Oracle software products that are part of our ongoing litigation with Oracle represent a significant portion of our current revenue. In Rimini II, Oracle has filed counterclaims relating to our support services for Oracles PeopleSoft, J.D. Edwards, Siebel, E-Business Suite, and Database software products. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 64% of our revenue was derived from the support services that we provide for our clients using Oracles PeopleSoft, J.D. Edwards, Siebel, E-Business Suite and Database software products. The percentage of revenue derived from services we provide for PeopleSoft software only was approximately 11% of our total revenue during this same period. Although we provide support services for additional Oracle product lines that are not subject to litigation and support services for software products provided by companies other than Oracle, our current revenue depends significantly on the product lines that are the subject of the Rimini II litigation. Should Oracle prevail on its claims in Rimini II or should a contempt proceeding result in a finding that we are in violation of the injunction, we could be required to change the way we provide support services to some of our clients, which could result in the loss of clients and revenue, and may also give rise to claims for compensation from our clients, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -18- Our ongoing litigation with Oracle presents challenges for growing our business. We have experienced challenges growing our business as a result of our ongoing litigation with Oracle. Many of our existing and prospective clients have expressed concerns regarding our ongoing litigation and, in some cases, have been subjected to various negative communications by Oracle in connection with the litigation. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience in the future, volatility and slowness in acquiring new clients, as well as clients not renewing their agreements with us, due to these challenges relating to our ongoing litigation with Oracle. Further, certain of our prospective and existing clients may be subject to additional negative communications from software vendors. We have taken steps to minimize disruptions to our existing and prospective clients regarding the litigation, but we continue to face challenges growing our business while the litigation remains ongoing. In certain cases, we have agreed to pay certain liquidated damages to our clients if we are no longer able to provide services to these clients, and/or reimburse our clients and our former lenders for their reasonable legal fees incurred in connection with any litigation-related subpoenas and depositions or to provide certain client indemnification or termination rights if any outcome of litigation results in our inability to continue providing any of the paid-for services. In addition, we believe the length of our sales cycle is longer than it otherwise would be due to prospective client diligence on possible effects of the Oracle litigation on our business. We cannot assure you that we will continue to overcome the challenges we face as a result of the litigation and continue to renew existing clients or secure new clients. Additionally, the existence of this ongoing litigation, including the January 12, 2022 District Court order, could negatively impact the value of our equity securities, and could negatively impact our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing. We are self-insured for any costs related to any current or future intellectual property litigation, although we maintain and have tendered our errors and omissions insurance coverage for the wrongful acts alleged in Oracles contempt proceeding in order to seek a determination of a duty to defend. We cannot provide assurances that we will prevail on this claim or any other similar claims that we may tender in the future. While we currently believe our cash on hand, accounts receivable and contractually committed backlog provides us with liquidity to cover costs related to litigation with Oracle, we cannot assure our liquidity will be sufficient. Oracle has a history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products, and Oracle could pursue additional litigation with us. Oracle has been active in litigating against companies that have offered competing maintenance and support services for their products. For example, in March 2007, Oracle filed a lawsuit against SAP and its wholly-owned subsidiary, TomorrowNow, Inc. After a jury verdict awarding Oracle $1.3 billion, the parties stipulated to a final judgment of $306 million subject to appeal. After the appeal, the parties settled the case in November 2014 for $356.7 million. In February 2012, Oracle filed suit against ServiceKey, Inc. and settled the case in October 2013 after the District Court issued an injunction against ServiceKey and its CEO. Oracle also filed suit against CedarCrestone Corporation in September 2012 and settled the case in July 2013. TomorrowNow and CedarCrestone offered maintenance and support for Oracle software products, and Service Key offered maintenance and support for Oracle technology products. Given Oracles history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products, we can provide no assurance, regardless of the outcome of our current litigations with Oracle, that Oracle will not pursue additional litigation against us. Such additional litigation could be costly, distract our management team from running our business and reduce client interest and our sales revenue. Other Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry The duration of and continued economic, operational and financial impacts on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the actions taken by governmental authorities, clients or others in response to the pandemic may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In response to the continued uncertain and rapidly evolving situation relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken precautionary measures to protect the health and well-being of our employees, clients, and the communities in which we operate. We have established work-at-home arrangements for most of our employees and continue to conduct business with restrictions on non-essential business travel, a no in-person event marketing strategy and a partially remote sales model. We believe that many of our clients are doing and will continue to do the same. These precautionary measures could impact our clients and potential clients ability or willingness to participate in our sales, marketing and client success efforts, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there is significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the global economy and consumer confidence. While some of our offices have partially re-opened with limited staffing, our offices will not fully re-open until local authorities permit us to, and our own criteria and conditions to ensure employee held and safety are satisfied. The -19- COVID-19 pandemic could have a sustained adverse impact on economic and market conditions and trigger a period of global economic slowdown, which may delay prospective clients decisions regarding engaging our services, impair the ability of our current clients to make timely payments to us, cause our current clients to ask for payment concessions or discounts, impact client renewal rates and adversely affect our revenue. If such conditions occur, we may be required to increase our reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and our results of operations would be harmed. We are unable to accurately predict the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic due to various uncertainties, including the duration and scope of the outbreak, particularly if virus variants result in additional outbreaks, the effectiveness of the vaccines developed to slow or stop the spread of the virus and actions that may be taken by governmental authorities to contain the virus. We closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, continually assessing its potential effects on our business. The extent to which our results are affected by COVID-19 will largely depend on future developments which cannot be accurately predicted and are uncertain, but the COVID-19 pandemic or the perception of its effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Further, due to our subscription-based business model, the effect of the pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods, and the global macroeconomic effects of the pandemic may persist for an indefinite period, even after the pandemic has subsided. The COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of COVID-19 in this Report for additional information. The market for independent software support services is relatively undeveloped and may not grow. The market for independent enterprise software support services is still relatively undeveloped, has not yet achieved widespread acceptance and may not grow quickly or at all. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to engage a third party such as us to provide software support services for their enterprise software. Many enterprise software licensees remain hesitant to use a third party to provide such support services, choosing instead to rely on support services provided by the enterprise software vendor. Other enterprise software licensees have invested substantial personnel, infrastructure and financial resources in their own organizations with respect to support of their licensed enterprise software products and may choose to self-support with their own internal resources instead of purchasing services from the enterprise software vendor or an independent provider such as ourselves. Particularly because our market is relatively undeveloped, we must address any potential clients concerns and explain the benefits of our approach to convince them of the value of our services. If companies are not sufficiently convinced that we can address their concerns and that the benefits of our services are compelling, then the market for our services may not develop as we anticipate, and our business will not grow. We face significant competition from both enterprise software vendors and other companies offering independent enterprise software support services, as well as from software licensees that attempt to self-support, which may harm our ability to add new clients, retain existing clients and grow our business. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, sales and marketing teams and other resources than we have, may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services, have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. We face intense competition from enterprise software vendors, such as Oracle and SAP, who provide software support services for their own products. Enterprise software vendors have offered, and may continue to offer, discounts to companies to whom we have marketed our services. In addition, enterprise software vendors may take other actions in an attempt to maintain their support service business, including changing the terms of their customer agreements, the functionality of their products or services, or their pricing terms. For example, starting in the second quarter of 2017 Oracle has prohibited us from accessing its support websites to download software updates on behalf of our clients who are authorized to do so and permitted to authorize a third party to do so on their behalf. In addition, various support policies of Oracle and SAP may include clauses that could penalize customers that choose to use independent enterprise software support vendors or that, following a departure from the software vendors support program, seek to return to the software vendor to purchase new licenses or services. Further, our current and potential competitors and enterprise software vendors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future services less competitive or obsolete. Competition could significantly impede our ability to sell our services on terms favorable to us, and we may need to decrease the prices for our services to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our results of operations will be negatively affected. There are also several smaller vendors in the independent enterprise software support services market with whom we compete with respect to certain of our services. We expect competition to continue to increase in the future, particularly if we prevail in Rimini II, which could harm our ability to increase sales, maintain or increase renewals and maintain our prices. In addition, certain independent enterprise software support organizations may have or may develop more cooperative relationships with enterprise software vendors, which may allow them to compete more effectively than us over the long term. To the extent any of our competitors have existing relationships with potential clients for enterprise software products and support services, those potential clients may be unwilling to purchase our services because of those existing relationships, -20- which could cause the demand for our services to be substantially impacted. Further, our competitors may attempt to use the pendency of the injunction, or the January 12, 2022 District Court order relating to the injunction described above under Risks Related to Litigation, to dissuade certain of our prospective or existing clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase our services. We have had a history of losses and may not achieve or sustain revenue growth or profitability in the future. Further, if we are unable to attract new clients or retain and/or sell additional products or services to our existing clients, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. We had net income of $75.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, and we had an accumulated deficit of $225.8 million as of December 31, 2021. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods while managing our costs to be profitable, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. To increase our revenue, we must add new clients, secure renewals or service extensions by existing clients on terms favorable to us and sell additional products and services to existing clients. As competitors introduce low-cost and/or differentiated services that are perceived to compete with ours, or as enterprise software vendors introduce competitive pricing or additional products and services or implement other sales strategies to compete with us, our ability to sell to new clients and renew agreements with existing clients based on pricing, service levels, technology and functionality could be impaired. In addition, certain of our existing clients may choose to license a new or different version of enterprise software from an enterprise software vendor, and such clients license agreements with the enterprise software vendor will typically include a minimum one-year mandatory maintenance and support services agreement. In such cases, it is unlikely that these clients would renew their maintenance and support services agreements with us, at least during the early term of the license agreement. In addition, such existing clients could move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer any products or services. As a result, we may be unable to renew or extend our agreements with existing clients or attract new clients or new business from existing clients on terms that would be favorable or comparable to prior periods, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and growth. Additionally, we intend to continue to expend significant funds to expand our sales and marketing operations, enhance our service offerings, expand into new markets, launch new product offerings and meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our operations as a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. Further, many companies with which we compete have larger and longer-tenured sales and marketing teams, which may impact the ability to grow our business, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and growth. If we are unable to achieve and sustain revenue growth or profitability, the market price of our securities may significantly decrease. If our retention rates decrease, or we do not accurately predict retention rates, our future revenue and results of operations may be harmed. Our clients have no obligation to renew their product or service subscription agreements with us after the expiration of a non-cancelable agreement term. In addition, the majority of our multi-year, non-cancelable client agreements are not pre-paid other than the first year of the non-cancelable service period. We may not accurately predict retention rates for our clients. Our retention rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our clients decision to license a new product or release from an enterprise software vendor, our clients decision to move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer products or services, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our clients businesses, client satisfaction with our products and services, the acquisition of our clients by other companies, and clients going out of business. If our clients do not renew their agreements for our products and services or if our clients decrease the amount they spend with us, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. In addition, certain of our existing clients may choose to license a new or different version of enterprise software from an enterprise software vendor, and such clients license agreements with the enterprise software vendor will typically include a minimum one-year mandatory maintenance and support services agreement. In such cases, it is unlikely that these clients would renew their maintenance and support services agreements with us, at least during the early term of the license agreement. In addition, such existing clients could move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer any products or services. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the relevant contract, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our results of operations. As a subscription-based business, we recognize revenue over the service period of our contracts. As a result, much of our reported revenue each quarter results from contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, while a shortfall in demand for our products and services or a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one quarter may not significantly reduce our revenue for that quarter, it could negatively affect our revenue in future quarters and full year periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new sales, renewals or extensions of our service agreements for a quarter will not be reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. Our revenue recognition model also makes it difficult for us to -21- rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new clients must be recognized over the applicable service contract term. Due to the variability of timing in our sales cycle, if we fail to forecast our revenue accurately, or if we fail to match our expenditures with corresponding revenue, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. We do not have a long operating history upon which to base forecasts of future operating revenue. In addition, the variability of the sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our products and services, which typically has been six to twelve months once a client is engaged, may also cause us to experience a delay between increasing operating expenses for such sales efforts, and the generation of corresponding revenue. Accordingly, we may be unable to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenue that we do not receive as a result of delays arising from these factors. As a result, our results of operations and liquidity in future reporting periods may be significantly below the expectations of the public market, securities analysts or investors, which could negatively impact the price of our Common Stock. Our future liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of new orders, the level of client renewals and cash receipts from clients. Due to the collection of cash from our clients before services are provided, our revenue is recognized over future periods when there are no corresponding cash receipts from such clients. Accordingly, our future liquidity depends upon the ability to continue to attract new clients and to enter into renewal arrangements with existing clients. If we experience a decline in orders from new clients or renewals from existing clients, our revenue may continue to increase while our liquidity and cash levels decline. Any such decline, however, will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of declines in orders from new clients or renewals from existing clients may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and cash flows until future periods. Comparing our revenues and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, as it may not be an indicator of the future sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity requirements. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance or liquidity. Our past growth is not indicative of our future growth, and if we grow rapidly, we may not be able to manage our growth effectively. Our revenue grew from $326.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 to $374.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, representing a period over period increase of 15%. You should not consider our past growth as indicative of our future performance. We believe growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: price our products and services effectively so that we are able to attract new clients and retain existing clients without compromising our profitability; introduce our products and services to new geographic markets; introduce new enterprise software products and services supporting additional enterprise software vendors, products and releases; satisfactorily conclude the Oracle litigation and any other litigation or governmental inquiry that may occur; and increase awareness of our company, products and services on a global basis. We may not successfully accomplish all or any of these objectives. In addition, our historical rapid growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we add additional staff, and we will need to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. Further, we believe that our corporate culture has been a critical component of our success. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team and nurturing our culture. As we expand our business and operate as a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate culture while managing our employee growth. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas without undermining our corporate culture of rapid innovation, teamwork and attention to client service that has been central to our growth. Any failure to manage our anticipated growth and related organizational changes in a manner that preserves our culture could negatively impact future growth and achievement of our business objectives. Our failure to generate significant capital through our operations or raise additional capital necessary to fund and expand our operations, invest in new services and products, and service our debt could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We may need to raise additional debt under our Credit Facility and additional capital beyond those available under the Credit Facility and funds raised from our August 2020 Offering and our March 2021 Offering if we cannot fund our growth or service our debt through our operating cash flows. Should this occur, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or additional equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We -22- are also subject to certain restrictions for future financings as discussed in the risk factor The terms of our Credit Facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of our Common Stock could decline. If we engage in additional debt financings, the holders of the debt securities or lenders would have priority over the holders of our Common Stock. We may also be required to accept terms that further restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, take other actions that would adversely impact the short-term price of our Common Stock, or force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and reduce the value of our Common Stock. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual and proprietary rights. Companies in the software industry are often required to defend against claims and litigation alleging infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors and other industry participants have been issued patents and/or have filed patent applications and may assert patent or other intellectual property rights within the industry. Our ongoing litigation with Oracle relates in part to copyright infringement claims and, from time to time, we may receive threatening letters or notices alleging infringement or may be the subject of claims that our services and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. Any allegation of infringement, whether innocent or intentional, can adversely impact marketing, sales and our reputation. We rely on our management team and other key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business. Additionally, the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel or to expand our marketing and sales capabilities could prevent us from executing our business strategy. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or any of our key senior members of management could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if we are unable to hire and integrate suitable replacements on a timely basis. Mr. Ravin has been under long-standing medical care for kidney disease, which includes ongoing treatment. Although Mr. Ravins condition has not adversely impacted his performance as Chief Executive Officer or on the overall management of the Company, we can provide no assurance that his condition will not affect his ability to perform the role of Chief Executive Officer in the future. Further, as we continue to grow our business, we will continue to adjust our senior management team. If we are unable to attract or retain the right individuals for the team, it could hinder our ability to grow our business and could disrupt our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. Furthermore, to execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including sales personnel. Our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our marketing and sales operations. We plan to continue expanding our sales force globally. We are experiencing a very competitive recruiting environment, creating difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient numbers of highly skilled sales personnel and other employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, we have experienced extreme hiring competition in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we have a significant amount of operations, but also face extremely competitive hiring environments across the United States and the other countries in which we operate. Our efforts to attract, develop, integrate and retain highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications may be compounded by intensified restrictions on travel (including restrictions implemented during the COVID-19 pandemic), immigration, or the availability of work visas. Many companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources and less stock price volatility than we do. In making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the equity incentives they are to receive in connection with their employment. If the price of our stock continues to experience significant volatility, our ability to attract or retain qualified employees will be adversely affected. In addition, as we continue to expand into new geographic markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the required management, sales, marketing and support services personnel to profitably grow our business. If we fail to attract highly qualified new sales and other personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our growth prospects could be severely harmed. Moreover, our sales personnel typically take an average of between nine to twelve months before any new sales personnel can operate at the capacity typically expected of experienced sales personnel. This ramp cycle, combined with our typical six- to twelve-month sales cycle for engaged prospects, means that we will not immediately recognize a return on this investment in our sales results. In addition, the cost to acquire clients is high due to the cost of these marketing and sales efforts. Further, the cost of marketing and sales efforts will likely increase as we continue to offer new products and services, as even our experienced sales personnel will need to receive specialized training on our new offerings. Our business may be materially harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our sales force if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel, if our new sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective. -23- Interruptions to or degraded performance of our service could result in client dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, loss of clients, limited growth and reduction in revenue. Our software support agreements with our clients generally guarantee a 10-minute response time with respect to certain high-priority issues. If we do not meet the 10-minute guarantee, our clients may in some instances be entitled to liquidated damages, service credits or refunds. To date, no such payments have been made. We also deliver tax, legal and regulatory updates to our clients. If there are inaccuracies in these updates, or if we are not able to deliver them on a timely basis to our clients, our reputation may be damaged, and we could face claims for compensation from our clients and potentially lose clients. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, security breaches or a result of any other issues, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and cause our revenue to decrease and our expenses to increase. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors, in turn, could further reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to pay liquidated damages, issue credits or cause clients not to renew their agreements with us, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. We depend and rely on SaaS technologies and related services from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business and interruptions or performance problems with these technologies or services may adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend and rely on software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technologies and related services from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including billing and order management, financial accounting services, and customer relationship management services. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions, security vulnerabilities, or cyber-attacks, because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, or due to other unforeseen circumstances, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage these critical functions could be interrupted, and our processes for and ability to manage sales of our products, recognize revenue, and support our customers could be impaired, all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We may experience fluctuations in our results of operations due to the sales cycles for our products and services, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including seasonality linked to certain of the sales cycles for our products and services. Historically, our sales cycle has been tied to the renewal dates for our clients existing and prior vendor support agreements for the products that we support. Because our clients make support vendor selection decisions in conjunction with the renewal of their existing support agreements with Oracle and SAP, among other enterprise software vendors, we have experienced an increase in business activity during the quarterly periods in which those agreements are up for renewal. However, because we have introduced and intend to continue to introduce products and services for additional software products that do not follow the same renewal timeline or pattern, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance, and comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Also, if we are unable to engage a potential client before its renewal date for software support services in a particular year, it will likely be at least another year before we would have the opportunity to engage that potential client again, given that such potential client likely had to renew or extend its existing support agreement for at least an additional years worth of service with its existing support provider. Furthermore, our existing clients generally renew their agreements with us at or near the end of each calendar year, so we have also experienced and expect to continue to experience heavier renewal rates in the fourth quarter. We may not be able to accurately forecast the amount and mix of future product and service subscriptions, revenue and expenses, and as a result, our results of operations may fall below our estimates or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If our revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our Common Stock could decline. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. We currently offer our clients support services for a fee that is equal to a percentage of the annual fees charged by the enterprise software vendor; therefore, changes in such vendors fee structures would impact the fees we would receive from our clients. If the enterprise software vendors offer deep discounts on certain services or lower prices generally, we may need to change our pricing models, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we continue to add new products and services to our offerings. To the extent that we do not have substantial experience with pricing such new products and services, we may need to adjust our pricing models for these offerings over time to ensure that we remain competitive and -24- realize a return on our investment in developing these new products and services. If we do not adapt our pricing models as necessary or appropriate, our revenue could decrease and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to scale our business systems quickly enough to meet our clients growing needs, and if we are not able to grow efficiently, our results of operations could be harmed. As enterprise software products become more advanced and complex, we will need to devote additional resources to innovating, improving and expanding our offerings to provide relevant products and services to our clients using these more advanced and complex products. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our internal business systems and our global operations and client engagement teams to serve our growing client base, particularly as our client demographics expand over time. Any such expansion may be expensive and complex, requiring financial investments, management time and attention. Any failure of or delay in these efforts could adversely affect the quality or success of our services and negatively impact client satisfaction, resulting in potential decreased sales to new clients and possibly lower renewal rates by existing clients. We could also face inefficiencies or operational failures as a result of our efforts to scale our infrastructure. There can be no assurance that the expansion and improvements to our infrastructure and systems will be fully or effectively implemented within budgets or on a timely basis, if at all. Any failure to efficiently scale our business could result in reduced revenue and increased expenditures and adversely impact our operating margins and results of operations. Because our long-term growth strategy involves further expansion of our sales to clients outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with global operations. A significant component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and client base outside the United States. Accordingly, our international revenue grew from $135.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 to $174.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $39.3 million or 29%. We currently have subsidiaries outside of the United States in Australia, Brazil, Canada, UAE (Dubai), France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, which focus primarily on selling our services in those regions. In the future, we may expand to other locations outside of the United States. Our current global operations and future initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including among others: changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions; the occurrence of catastrophic events, including natural disasters, that may disrupt our business; changes in regulatory requirements, taxes or trade laws or the imposition of trade sanctions; more stringent regulations relating to data security, such as where and how data can be housed, accessed and used, and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information; differing labor regulations, especially in countries and geographies where labor laws are more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs as well as hire and retain local management, sales, marketing and support personnel, along with the ability to recapture costs to open up new geographies; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems and regulatory systems; increased logistics, travel, real estate, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with global operations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into currency exchange rate hedging transactions; limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general preferences for local vendors; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection; political instability or terrorist activities, including geopolitical actions specific to an international region; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash. Our exposure in operating our business globally with the risks noted above and the unique challenges of each new geography increase the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our global operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. -25- Consolidation in our target sales markets is continuing at a rapid pace, which could harm our business in the event that our clients are acquired and their agreements are terminated, or not renewed or extended. Consolidation among companies in our target sales markets has been robust in recent years, and this continuing trend poses a risk for us. If such consolidation rates continue, we expect that some of the acquiring companies will terminate, renegotiate and elect not to renew our agreements with the clients they acquire, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If there is a widespread shift by clients or potential clients to enterprise software vendors, products and releases for which we do not provide software products or services, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Our current revenue is primarily derived from the provision of support services for Oracle and SAP enterprise software products. If other enterprise software vendors, products and releases emerge to take substantial market share from current Oracle and SAP products and releases we support, and we are unable to, or do not, offer products or services for such vendors, products or releases, demand for our products and services may decline or our products and services may become obsolete. Developing new products and services to address different emerging enterprise software vendors, products and releases could take a substantial investment of time and financial resources, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful. If fewer clients use enterprise software products for which we provide products and services, and we are not able to provide services for new vendors, products and releases, our business may be adversely impacted. We continue to invest resources in research and development to enhance our current product and service offerings, and other new offerings that will appeal to clients and potential clients, for example, our partnership with Salesforce to support SaaS solutions and our Application Management Services (AMS) for SAP and Oracle products. The development of new product and service offerings may not generate sufficient revenue to offset the increased research and development expenses and may not generate gross profit margins consistent with our current margins. Also, our new product and service offerings may be in markets that are more competitive than markets for our existing product and service offerings, making it more difficult to introduce them to clients and potential clients effectively or provide them profitably. If our new or modified products, services or technology do not work as intended, are not responsive to client needs or industry or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing and prospective clients or related opportunities, in which case our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted, and if we are not successful in implementing any new product and service offerings, we may need to write off the value of our investment in such offerings. Cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication; if our data security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to or misuse of client data occurs, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or cease their use of our services, our reputation may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our services sometimes involve accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing and transmitting proprietary information and protected data of our clients. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing and transmitting such information and data. If our security measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee, vendor or client error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business and our clients may be harmed, and we could incur significant liabilities. Cyberattacks continue to increase in frequency and in magnitude generally, and these threats are being driven by a variety of sources, including nation-state sponsored espionage and hacking activities, industrial espionage, organized crime, sophisticated organizations and hacking groups and individuals. In addition, if the security measures of our clients are compromised, even without any actual compromise of our own systems or security measures, we may face negative publicity or reputational harm if our clients or anyone else incorrectly attributes the blame for such security breaches to us, our products and services, or our systems. We may also be responsible for repairing any damage caused to our clients systems that we support, and we may not be able to make such repairs in a timely manner or at all. We may be unable to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems because they change frequently and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our client base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our systems or security measures or gain unauthorized access to our clients proprietary information and protected data as was the case in a 2021 successful phishing incident where we were a victim, which resulted in some unauthorized sharing of client addresses and outstanding billing data information, but did not significantly impact our business or client relationships. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including insurance, monitoring of our systems and networks, employee training and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, -26- products and services remain potentially vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated advanced persistent threats that may have a material effect on our business. In addition, the devotion of additional resources to the security of our information technology systems in the future could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact our financial results. In addition, many governments have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data, and some of our clients contractually require notification of any data security compromise. In the event of a data security compromise, we may have difficulty timely complying with notification requirements that are unreasonably short or burdensome. Security compromises experienced by our clients, by our competitors or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any data security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode client confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to elect not to renew their agreements with us, or subject us to third party lawsuits, government investigations, regulatory fines or other action or liability, all or any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that any limitations of liability provisions in our contracts for a security breach would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of substantial deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to governmental and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. As an expanding global company, we are subject to the laws and regulations of numerous jurisdictions worldwide regarding accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing, transmitting, disclosure and protection of personal data, the scope of which are constantly changing, subject to differing interpretation and related to jurisdictions where we have operations, customers, or where we conduct marketing, and such laws may be inconsistent between countries or in conflict with other laws, legal obligations or industry standards. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union (EU), creates a broad range of requirements and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance, including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual revenue for the preceding financial year or 20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements. Other applicable jurisdictions with strong privacy legislation include, but are not limited to Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Israel, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, China, Australia, New Zealand, and the majority of developed economies We are also subject to certain requirements of expanding U.S. state law, including the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act of 2021 (effective Jan 1, 2023), the Colorado Consumer Privacy Act of 2021 (effective July 1, 2023), as well as privacy legislation in the states of Connecticut, Arkansas, Maine, New York, Vermont, Utah, and Nevada, each of which add to the range of privacy-related compliance requirements. We generally comply with industry standards and strive to comply with all applicable legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection, but it is possible that these laws and other legal obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with industry standards or our practices or may be mandated at a pace that exceeds our ability to comply. Compliance with such requirements may be costly and may require us to modify our business practices, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these laws, policies or other obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions or litigation against us, with potential consequences such as fines and other expenses related to such governmental actions, an order requiring that we change our data practices or business practices, and could cause our clients to lose trust in us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. If our products and services fail due to defects or similar problems, and if we fail to correct any defect or other software problems, we could lose clients, become subject to service performance or warranty claims or incur significant costs. Our products and services and the systems infrastructure necessary for the successful delivery of our products and services to clients are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors unknown to us. We have from time to time found defects in our products and services after delivery to our customers and may discover additional defects in the future. In particular, we have developed our own tools and processes to deliver comprehensive tax, legal and regulatory updates tailored for each client, which we endeavor to deliver to our clients in a shorter timeframe than our competitors, which may result in an increased risk of material defects or errors occurring. We may not be able to detect and correct all defects or errors before clients begin to use our products and services, as some may be unknown. Consequently, defects or errors may be discovered after our products and services are provided and used. These defects or errors could also cause inaccuracies in the data we collect and process for our clients, or even the loss, damage or inadvertent release of such confidential data. Even if we are able to implement fixes or corrections to our tax, legal and regulatory updates in a timely manner, any history of defects or inaccuracies in the data we collect for our clients, or the loss, damage or inadvertent release of such confidential data could -27- cause our reputation to be harmed, and clients may elect not to renew, extend or expand their agreements with us and subject us to service performance credits, warranty or other claims or increased insurance costs. The costs associated with any material defects or errors in our products and services or other performance problems may be substantial and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our Common Stock price. We have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As described under Part II, Item 9A of this Report, our management concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, due to inadequate controls in relation to improperly applying the accounting guidance for our GP Sponsor Private Placement Warrants, recognizing the warrants as equity instead of as a liability. In addition, in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, our management determined that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to the following: inadequate controls in relation to recognition of liabilities for embedded derivatives in connection with our former credit facility, which was repaid in 2018 (2016); inadequate controls in relation to revenue recognition from support service sales contracts whereby we incorrectly accounted for multi-year, non-cancelable support service sales contracts as a single delivery arrangement and incorrectly accounting for revenue for certain non-standard contract provisions (2015 and 2016); various sales tax control matters related to manual processes and determination of tax liabilities in certain states (2015); and inadequate controls for accrual of loss contingencies related to our litigation with Oracle (2015). As described in Part II, Item 9A of this Report, we remediated the material weakness in relation to the accounting for our GP Sponsor Private Placement Warrants. We previously remediated the remaining material weaknesses described above during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016; however, we cannot provide assurance that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. With respect to controls over revenue accounting procedures, we intend to continue to work on automating our processes, especially around Accounting Standards Codification 606 (ASC 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers , as well as to continue to enhance our review processes around new and renewal contracts. In addition, we are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on managements assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. For further information regarding our