Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of COVID-19 for additional information on this topic. Finally, through the Rimini Street Foundation, which is privately funded by the Company, we encourage our employees to support humankind and share our companys success by investing back into the communities we serve through in-kind donations, employee time and Company financial support. As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately over 1,420 professionals globally. We also engage temporary employees and consultants as needed. None of our U.S. based employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our non-U.S. based employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to -9- collective bargaining agreements in particular jurisdictions, as required by local labor laws. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be very good. Technology Infrastructure and Operations We have IT infrastructure and staff globally. Our operations support our client offerings, compliance requirements and future global expansion. To connect to systems owned, leased or otherwise controlled by our clients, we utilize site-to-site tunnels and virtual private networks with secure firewall administration underpinned with a high level of global network reliability, security and performance. We maintain a formal and comprehensive security program designed to ensure the security and integrity of client data, protect against security threats or data breaches, and prevent unauthorized access to the data of our customers. We have achieved worldwide ISO 27001:2013 information security certification for our security processes. We strictly regulate and limit all access to our offices, have deployed advanced security software and hardware, and utilize advanced security measures. Compliance and Certifications ISO certifications are part of our commitment to developing and executing best-in-class processes to ensure our clients consistently receive exceptional service. We have achieved and maintain ISO 9001 and ISO 27001 certifications. In 2010, we achieved ISO 9001 Quality Management System certification for Third-party provider of enterprise software support services specifically on-boarding of client and client environments. In 2011, we expanded our certification for Provision of third-party enterprise software support services specifically on-boarding of client, building of client environments, worldwide tax and regulatory research and delivery of tax and regulatory updates. In 2012, we expanded our certification for Global provision of enterprise software support services, including client onboarding; client account management; product support for vendor delivered and client customized code; fix development and delivery; and research, development and delivery of worldwide tax, legal and regulatory updates. The certification process verifies that detailed processes for relevant business areas are reviewed, continuously monitored and improved to ensure services and deliverables are consistently delivered with excellence. During 2018, the ISO standard was upgraded. Our current ISO 9001:2015 certification was issued in December 2019 and is valid until December 2022. During this certification cycle, annual surveillance audits are conducted to validate ongoing compliance to the requirements. In 2013, we achieved worldwide ISO 27001 information security certification for our support services. ISO 27001 is a security standard covering The information security management system that supports the global provisioning of third-party software maintenance services. Independent assessments of our conformity to the ISO 27001 standard includes evaluating security risks, designing and implementing comprehensive security controls and adopting an information security management process to meet security needs on an ongoing basis. Our current ISO 27001:2013 certification was issued in July 2019 and is valid until April 2022. During this certification cycle, annual surveillance audits are conducted to validate ongoing compliance to the requirements. Competition We compete in the market for enterprise software support products and services. This market has been dominated by the enterprise software vendors themselves as the primary support providers for their own products. We believe the competitive service market with new independent competitors is still relatively undeveloped and maturing. As a result, we believe our primary competition today comes from the enterprise software vendors who license the products we service, such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle and SAP. We expect that continued growth in our market could lead to significantly increased competition resulting from new entrants. In the meantime, our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to engage an independent service vendor such as us to provide software maintenance and support services for their enterprise software. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: track record of technical capability to provide the required software support; ability to identify, develop and deliver required tax, legal and regulatory updates; infrastructure model to deliver support globally within guaranteed service levels; track record of providing a high level of client satisfaction; ease of support model onboarding, deployment and usage; breadth and depth of support functionality, including the ability to support customized software; -10- cost of products and services; brand awareness and reputation; capability for delivering services in a secure, scalable and reliable manner; ability to innovate and respond to client needs rapidly; and size of referenceable client base. We believe we compete favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors. Our support model allows us to gain an in-depth understanding of a given clients unique software environment, enabling rapid and accurate responses to the clients support requests. We provide our clients with comprehensive software support capabilities, including full support for add-ons and custom code as part of our services, something that, based on managements experience and belief, enterprise software vendors typically do not provide with their standard support offering. We also offer our clients a substantial discount to the fees they would otherwise pay their enterprise software vendor for their support services and enable them to avoid or defer undesired, costly upgrades. By eliminating unnecessary upgrades, additional resources to support customizations and providing savings on support fees, based on managements experience, belief and estimates, our clients can save up to approximately 1.5 times their traditional vendor base support fees per year when using our base support services over a 10-year period. We have also invested significant resources developing our unique service methodologies and a data capture and management process to deliver comprehensive tax, legal and regulatory updates tailored for each client. However, we believe some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, greater name recognition and deeper customer relationships. Additionally, many software licensees are reluctant to engage a smaller independent company such as us to provide software maintenance and support services for their enterprise application software, choosing instead to continue relying on support services provided by their enterprise software vendor. We expect competition and competitive pressure, both from new and existing competitors, to increase in the future. Intellectual Property We rely on federal, state, common law and international rights, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect our intellectual property consisting of a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, domain names and patented technology. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties, such as service providers, vendors, individuals and entities that may be exploring a business relationship with us. On December 17, 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted Rimini Street its first patent, U.S. Patent No. 10,509,639 for the invention Automatic Software-Update Framework. On August 18, 2020, the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted Rimini Street its second patent, U.S. Patent No. 10,749,926 for the invention Proxy for Modifying HTTP Messages to Comply with Browser. We currently have four patent applications pending in the United States. We own federal trademark registrations for the Rimini Street trademark in the United States, which registration will expire in March 2030 unless renewed. In addition, we have the Engineered for Support trademark in the United States, which registration will expire in September 2022 unless renewed. We also own trademark registrations for Rimini Street in Canada, the European Union, China, Japan, India, Australia and certain other countries. Such registered trademarks will expire unless renewed at various times in the future. We have also applied for registration of Rimini Street as a trademark in certain other countries. Policing unauthorized use of our processes and software tools and intellectual property rights is difficult. As of December 31, 2020, we are not aware of any breaches of our intellectual property rights. Information about our Executive Officers. The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of our executive officers as of March 3, 2021: -11- Name Age Position Executive Officers Seth A. Ravin 54 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Gerard Brossard 56 Chief Operating Officer Sebastian Grady 57 President Nancy Lyskawa 58 Executive Vice President, Global Client Onboarding Kevin Maddock 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Recurring Revenue Officer Stanley Mbugua 50 Group Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Michael L. Perica 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer David Rowe 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Steven Salaets 43 Chief Information Officer, Chief People Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Security, Facilities, Quality and Internal Audit Brian Slepko 57 Executive Vice President, Global Service Delivery Daniel B. Winslow 62 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Seth A. Ravin founded our company and has served as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board since September 2005 and also served as our President from September 2005 to January 2011. Mr. Ravin has served as a member of our board of directors since September 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ravin served in various executive roles at TomorrowNow, Inc. from May 2002 to April 2005, most recently as President and a board director. TomorrowNow, Inc. was a supplier of software maintenance and support services for Oracles PeopleSoft and J.D. Edwards applications, and was acquired in January 2005 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of SAP America, Inc. From April 2000 to March 2001, Mr. Ravin served as Vice President of Inside Sales for Saba Software, Inc., a provider of e-Learning and human resource management software. From April 1996 to April 2000, Mr. Ravin served in various management roles at PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle), most recently as a Vice President of the Customer Sales Division. Mr. Ravin holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the University of Southern California. Gerard Brossard has served as our Chief Operating Officer since March 2021. Previously, he served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since joining the Company in June 2020. He sits on the business advisory council of Illuminate Ventures and participates on multiple strategic advisory boards of enterprise SaaS start-ups. Prior to joining us, in addition to his strategic advisory board service, which began in 2013, from August 2017 until September 2019, Mr. Brossard served in multiple capacities at Rackspace, most recently as its EVP and GM of Global Solutions and Services where he was responsible for all products, solutions and services. From April 2015 until March 2017, he served as EVP and Managing Director, Enterprise and Mid-Market at Earthlink. Earlier in his career, Mr. Brossard spent 24 years with Hewlett-Packard where he held various executive positions in France and the US. Mr. Brossard holds a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Physics from Externat Sainte Marie de Lyon, France, and a Masters in Computer Science from Universite Claude Bernard in Lyon, France. Sebastian Grady has served as our President since January 2011. Prior to joining us, Mr. Grady served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Altus Corporation, a provider of video search and management software for sales enablement, from March 2005 to January 2011. From October 2000 to October 2001, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Saba Software, Inc. From March 1993 to October 2000, Mr. Grady served in various executive roles with PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation), most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Customer Sales Division from March 1997 to October 2000. From February 1987 to March 1993, Mr. Grady served in various roles with Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Grady holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Nancy Lyskawa has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Client Onboarding since March 2020. Previously she served as our Senior Vice President, Global Client Onboarding since joining the Company in September 2009. Prior to joining us, Ms. Lyskawa was with Oracle Corporation, a computer technology company, from December 2004 to September 2009, where she served in various executive roles, most recently as Vice President, Support Services and Marketing, from August 2005 to September 2009. From March 1994 to December 2004, she served as head of Global Services Marketing for PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation). From May 1986 to March 1994, Ms. Lyskawa served in various roles with Electronic Data Systems Corporation (acquired by Hewlett-Packard Company). Ms. Lyskawa is a Certified Management -12- Accountant (CMA). Ms. Lyskawa holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting and Finance from the University of North Dakota and a Masters Certificate in Marketing from the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University. Kevin Maddock has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Recurring Revenue Officer since March 2021. Previously, he served as our Executive Vice President, Global Sales - Recurring Revenue from March 2020 until March 2021, our Senior Vice President, Global Sales - Recurring Revenue from January 2018 to March 2020 and our Senior Vice President, Global Sales from December 2008 to January 2018. Prior to joining us, Mr. Maddock served as Executive Vice President of Worldwide Inside Sales and Operations for ServiceSource, a recurring revenue management company, from October 2004 to March 2008. From May 1998 to September 2004, Mr. Maddock served as Vice President of Worldwide Support Service Sales at PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle). From September 1995 to May 1998, Mr. Maddock served in multiple roles at KPMG Consulting. From August 1987 to April 1993, Mr. Maddock served in various roles at Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Maddock holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance with Honors from the University of Notre Dame and a Masters of Business Administration from the Anderson School of Management at UCLA. Stanley Mbugua has served as our Group Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since November 2019, prior to which, he was our Vice President and Corporate Controller since he joined the company on September 25, 2017. Prior to joining us, from March 2015 through September 2017, he served as Senior Director & Corporate Controller of Lattice Semiconductor Corporation (Nasdaq: LSCC, previously, Silicon Image, Inc.). He began working at Silicon Image, Inc. in August 2011 and held various positions, including Senior Director & Corporate Controller, Director of Accounting, Assistant Controller and Revenue Manager, until Silicon Image, Inc. was acquired by Lattice Semiconductor Corporation in March 2015, at which time he was appointed to be Senior Director and Corporate Controller of the combined company. Earlier in his career, Mr. Mbugua worked at both PricewaterhouseCoopers and BDO on audit and consulting engagements for both privately held and publicly-traded companies. Mr. Mbugua holds a Bachelor of Accounting Degree from the University of Nairobi and is an active Certified Public Accountant. Michael L. Perica has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2020. Prior to joining us, Mr. Perica served as Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the $1.2 billion Energy Systems Global business unit at Enersys (NYSE: ENS), a global leader in stored energy solutions. Mr. Perica joined Enersys in December 2018 as the result of Enersys acquisition of Alpha Technologies, where he led the sell-side process as Alpha Technologies Chief Financial Officer. Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer in August 2015, he served as Alpha Technologies Vice President, International Finance and Operations since November 2013. Prior to his tenure at Alpha Technologies, Perica served as the Chief Financial Officer of Channell Commercial Corporation and spent 12 years as a sell-side analyst on Wall Street where he worked in senior publishing analyst positions at various investment banks. Mr. Perica holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting from Central Michigan University and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Southern California, Marshall School of Business. David Rowe has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since March 2020. Previously, he served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from April 2012 to March 2020 and our Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and Alliances from December 2008 to April 2012 and our Vice President Marketing and Alliances from September 2006 to December 2008. Prior to joining us, Mr. Rowe served as Vice President of Product Management and Marketing at Perfect Commerce, Inc., an eProcurement company, from November 2004 to June 2006. From May 1995 to June 1999, Mr. Rowe held various positions with PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation), most recently serving as Director, Product Strategy. From July 1988 to April 1995, Mr. Rowe served in various roles at Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Rowe holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering from Harvey Mudd College. Steven Salaets joined our company in 2009 and has served as our Chief Information Officer, Chief People Officer & Executive Vice President, Global Security, Facilities, Quality and Internal Audit since July 2020. Previously, he served as our Chief Information Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Security, Internal Audit and Quality from March 2020 until July 2020, our Chief Information Officer & Senior Vice President, Global Security, Quality and Internal Audit from December 2019 until March 2020 and our Senior Vice President, Global Security & Compliance and Chief Information Officer from August 2018 to December 2019. Prior to that, he served as our Group Vice President, Information Technology & Global Security, Compliance and Internal Audit (December 2016 to July 2018) and our Group Vice President, Global Human Resources and Global Security, Risk and Compliance (September 2013 to November 2016). Prior to September 2013, he held multiple other senior and director-level roles within our company focused on global security, risk and compliance. Prior to joining our company Mr. Salaets held management-level positions with Moodys KMV and Wind River. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from Groep-T in Leuven, Belgium. Brian Slepko has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Service Delivery, since March 2020. Previously, he served as our Senior Vice President, Global Service Delivery since joining us in 2008 and served as a member of our board of -13- directors from October 2006 to July 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Slepko was with Oracle Corporation, which he joined as part of Oracles acquisition of Agile Software, Inc., an enterprise software solutions company. From July 2005 to June 2007, Mr. Slepko served as Vice President of Global Maintenance Revenue and Sales Operations at Agile Software. From March 2003 to February 2005, Mr. Slepko served as a Director of Sales Operations for Ocular Sciences, Inc. From August 1995 to May 2001, Mr. Slepko served in a variety of roles with PeopleSoft, Inc. (acquired by Oracle Corporation), most recently serving as Director, Sales Operations. From January 1990 to August 1995, Mr. Slepko held various roles with Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting). Mr. Slepko holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Management and Management Information Systems from the University of Oklahoma and a Masters of Business Administration from Loyola University of Chicago. Daniel B. Winslow joined our company in September 2013 and has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since March 2020. Previously, he served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from January 2019 to March 2020 and our Senior Vice President and General Counsel (September 2013 to February 2019) and our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (February 2019 to December 2019). Prior to joining us, Mr. Winslow was a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives from January 2011 to September 2013. Mr. Winslow served as Of Counsel at the law firm of Duane Morris LLP from June 2013 to September 2013. He served as Senior Counsel at the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP from May 2010 to March 2013 and as a partner at Duane Morris LLP from January 2005 to May 2010. From January 2002 to December 2004, he was Chief Legal Counsel to then-Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and was previously a presiding justice and appellate division justice in the Massachusetts Trial Court. Mr. Winslow holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from Tufts University and a Juris Doctorate from Boston College Law School. Available Information We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as well as our other SEC filings, available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website address is www.riministreet.com . The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this document. Item 1A - Risk Factors Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in this Report are any of the risks described in this Item 1.A. Any of these factors could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. In addition, risk factors relating to economic uncertainties, downturns in the general economy or the industries in which our clients operate should be interpreted as heightened risks as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our business operations are subject to a number of risk factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If any significant adverse developments resulting from these risk factors should occur, the trading price of our securities could decline, and moreover, investors in our securities could lose all or part of their investment in our securities. You should consider these risks, You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements under the heading Special Note Regarding Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K set forth in Part I, Item 2 of this Report. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. We may update these risk factors in our future periodic reports. Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of some of the risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this Risk Factors Summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below under the heading Risk Factors and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment in our securities. -14- Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry Risks Related to Litigation We are involved in litigation with Oracle. An adverse outcome in the litigation could result in the payment of substantial damages and/or an injunction against certain of our business practices. The Oracle software products that are part of our litigation represent a significant portion of our revenue. Oracle has a history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products We received a federal grand jury inquiry in March 2018. If such inquiry leads to legal proceedings, we would incur legal costs and may potentially suffer an adverse outcome. Other Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry The duration of and impacts on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the responsive actions taken by governments or clients may have a material adverse effect on our business. The market for independent software support services is relatively undeveloped and may not grow. We have had a history of losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. If we are unable to attract new clients or retain and sell additional products or services to existing clients, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. If our retention rates decrease our future revenue and results of operations may be harmed. We face significant competition. Our past growth is not indicative of future growth, and we may not be able to manage our growth effectively. Our failure to generate significant capital or raise additional capital necessary to fund our operations and invest in new services and products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes others intellectual property rights. The loss of one or more key employees could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the relevant contract, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our results of operations. Failure to effectively develop and expand our marketing and sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products and services. Interruptions to or degraded performance of our service could result in client dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, loss of clients, limited growth and reduction in revenue. We may experience fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our future liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of new orders, the level of client renewals and cash receipts from clients. We may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability, interest and/or penalties for past sales, which could adversely harm our business. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. If we are not able to scale our business quickly and grow efficiently, our results of operations could be harmed. We have experienced significant growth resulting in changes to our organization and structure, which if not effectively managed, could have a negative impact on our business. Our business will be susceptible to risks associated with global operations. If we fail to forecast our revenue accurately, or if we fail to match our expenditures with corresponding revenue, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. Consolidation in our target sales markets is continuing at a rapid pace, which could harm our business. If there is a widespread shift by clients or potential clients to enterprise software vendors, products and releases for which we do not provide software products or services, our business would be adversely impacted. Delayed or unsuccessful investment in new technology, products, services and markets may harm our financial condition and results of operations. -15- If our data security measures are compromised, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or cease their use of our services, our reputation may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. If our products and services fail due to defects or similar problems, we could lose clients, become subject to service performance or warranty claims or incur significant costs. If we take advantage of certain exemptions from reporting and disclosure requirements available to smaller reporting companies that are also accelerated filers, this could make our common stock less attractive to investors. If we are not able to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Economic uncertainties or downturns in the general economy or the industries in which our clients operate could disproportionately affect the demand for our products and services and negatively impact our results of operations. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. If we fail to enhance our brand, our ability to expand our client base will be impaired. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive position could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. We may not be able to use a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could adversely affect profitability. We are a multinational organization, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. Future strategic transactions could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could harm our business. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Reports published by analysts, including projections in those reports that differ from our actual results, could adversely affect the price and trading volume of our Common Stock. Risks Related to Capitalization Matters and Corporate Governance Risks Related to our Preferred Stock and Common Stock, Warrants and Units Our Series A Preferred Stock and Convertible Notes restrict our ability to incur certain indebtedness, and the Convertible Notes contain additional restrictions and obligations, which limit our flexibility in operating our business. The price of our Common Stock, warrants and units may be volatile. Our preferred stockholders and certain of our common stockholders can exercise significant control, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Future resales of our Common Stock held by significant stockholders or of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock may cause the market price of our Common Stock to drop significantly. Any issuance of Common Stock upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or exercise of warrants will cause dilution to existing stockholders and may depress the market price of our Common Stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock. The DGCL and our organizational documents contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to take certain actions and could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, stockholders, employees or agents could be limited by our choice of forum in our bylaws. Other Risks Related to our Series A Preferred Stock and Convertible Notes Our Series A Preferred Stock and related Convertible Notes have rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of their holders differing from those of our common stockholders. Our ability to pay Cash Dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock may be limited or we may not have sufficient cash to pay our redemption obligations due upon the occurrence of a redemption event. -16- There is no market for the Series A Preferred Stock or Convertible Notes and their value will be directly affected by the market price of our Common Stock, which may be volatile. Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry Risks Related to Litigation We and our Chief Executive Officer are involved in litigation with Oracle. An adverse outcome in the ongoing litigation could result in the payment of substantial damages and/or an injunction against certain of our business practices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In January 2010, certain subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation (together with its subsidiaries individually and collectively, Oracle) filed a lawsuit, Oracle USA, Inc. et al v. Rimini Street, Inc. et al (United States District Court for the District of Nevada) (District Court), against us and our Chief Executive Officer, Seth Ravin, alleging that certain of our processes ("Process 1.0") violated Oracles license agreements with its customers and that we committed acts of copyright infringement and violated other federal and state laws (Rimini I). The litigation involved our business processes and the manner in which we provided our services to our clients. After completion of jury trial in 2015 and subsequent appeals, the final outcome of Rimini I was that Mr. Ravin was found not liable for any claims and we were found liable for only one claim: innocent infringement, a jury finding that we did not know and had no reason to know that its former support processes were infringing. The jury also found that the infringement did not cause Oracle to suffer lost profits. We were ordered to pay a judgment of $124.4 million in 2016, which we promptly paid and then pursued appeals. With interest, attorneys fees and costs, the total judgment paid by us to Oracle after the completion of all appeals was approximately $89.9 million. A portion of such judgment was paid by our insurance carriers (for additional information on this topic, see Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report). The total judgment paid by us and our insurance carriers reflects a reduction of approximately $12.8 million that we had previously paid to Oracle (plus interest of $0.2 million), representing an award of non-taxable expenses to Oracle that was eventually overturned by unanimous decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in March 2019. As mandated by the U.S. Supreme Court, $13.0 million (the principal amount plus post-judgment interest) was refunded to us by Oracle in April 2019. Following post-trial motions, the District Court entered a permanent injunction prohibiting us from using certain processes. In August 2019, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the permanent injunction issued by the District Court, while also correcting certain legal errors that narrowed the scope of the injunction. The injunction prohibits Rimini from using support processes that had been found in Rimini I to innocently infringe certain Oracle copyrights, which Rimini ceased using no later than July 31, 2014. On July 10, 2020, Oracle filed a motion to show cause contending that we are in contempt of the injunction. We are opposing the motion. The matter is now fully briefed to the District Court, with no known timeline for a ruling. At this time, we do not have sufficient information regarding possible damages for the contempt asserted by Oracle. As a result, an estimate of the range of loss cannot be reasonably determined. Because we believe that we have complied with the injunction and that an award for damages and/or attorneys fees is not probable, no accrual has been made as of December 31, 2020. If the District Court grants Oracles motion to show cause, and if we are later found to be in contempt of the injunction, Oracle may seek equitable, punitive, and compensatory relief, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Oracle may file additional contempt motions against us at any time to attempt to enforce its interpretation of the injunction or if it has reason to believe we are not in compliance with express terms of the injunction. Such contempt proceedings or any judicial finding of contempt could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, the pendency of the injunction, alone, or Oracles July 2020 contempt filing described above, could dissuade clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase our services. Further, certain outcomes, should they occur, may also trigger the mandatory redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock, with the redemption amounts automatically becoming payment obligation under our Convertible Notes with a concurrent cancellation of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock. If we are obligated to pay substantial civil assessments arising from any finding of contempt, this could reduce the amount of cash flows available to pay dividends due in respect of our Series A Preferred Stock or, if the shares are converted, the interest under the Convertible Notes. Holders of our Convertible Notes are entitled to accelerate repayment of the indebtedness under such notes if we default in our interest payment obligations. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets which -17- would allow us to repay such indebtedness in full at such time. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing, if required, to repay our obligations under the Convertible Notes. As a result, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In October 2014, we filed a separate lawsuit, Rimini Street Inc. v. Oracle Intl Corp. , in the District Court against Oracle seeking a declaratory judgment that our support practices, in use since at least July 2014, do not infringe certain Oracle copyrights (Rimini II). Our operative complaint asserts declaratory judgment, tort, and statutory claims. Oracles operative counterclaim asserts declaratory judgment and copyright infringement claims and Lanham Act, breach of contract, and business tort violations. On September 15, 2020, the District Court issued an order resolving the parties motions for summary judgment. It found infringement of 17 Oracle PeopleSoft copyrights for work we performed for a set of gap customers that were supported by processes litigated in Rimini I, and that became our customers after Rimini I was filed. The District Court also found infringement of four Oracle PeopleSoft copyrights involving support of two specific clients, described by the District Court as limited cases and involving limited circumstance[s]. There was no finding of infringement on any other Oracle copyrights at issue. We could be required to pay substantial damages for our current or past business activities and/or be enjoined from certain business practices. Any of these outcomes could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and the pendency of the litigation alone could dissuade clients from purchasing or continuing to purchase our services. Further, these outcomes may also trigger the mandatory redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock, with the redemption amounts automatically becoming payment obligations under our Convertible Notes with a concurrent cancellation of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock. If we are obligated to pay substantial damages to Oracle or are enjoined from certain business practices, this could reduce the amount of cash flows available to pay dividends due in respect of our Series A Preferred Stock or the indebtedness under the Convertible Notes. If we default in our payment obligations under the Convertible Notes and the indebtedness under the Convertible Notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our business has been and may continue to be materially harmed by this litigation and Oracles conduct. During the course of these cases, we anticipate there will be rulings by the District Court in Rimini II, the District Court in Rimini I, and possibly the Court of Appeals in both Rimini I and Rimini II in connection with hearings, motions, decisions, and other matters, as well as other interim developments related to the litigations. If securities analysts or investors regard these rulings as negative, the market price of our Common Stock may decline. If current or prospective clients regard these rulings as negative, it could negatively impact our new client sales or renewal sales. While we plan to continue to vigorously litigate the pending matters in Rimini I and Rimini II, we are unable to predict the timing or outcome of these lawsuits. No assurance is or can be given that we will prevail on any appeal, contempt proceeding, claim, or counterclaim. See the section titled Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 1 and Note 8 of our consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for more information related to this litigation. The Oracle software products that are part of our ongoing litigation with Oracle represent a significant portion of our current revenue. In Rimini II, Oracle has filed counterclaims relating to our support services for Oracles PeopleSoft, J.D. Edwards, Siebel, E-Business Suite, and Database software products. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 64% of our revenue was derived from the support services that we provide for our clients using Oracles PeopleSoft, J.D. Edwards, Siebel, E-Business Suite and Database software products. The percentage of revenue derived from services we provide for PeopleSoft software only was approximately 13% of our total revenue during this same period. Although we provide support services for additional Oracle product lines that are not subject to litigation and support services for software products provided by companies other than Oracle, our current revenue depends significantly on the product lines that are the subject of the Rimini II litigation. Should Oracle prevail on its claims in Rimini II or should a contempt action result in a finding that we are in violation of the injunction, we could be required to change the way we provide support services to some of our clients, which could result in the loss of clients and revenue, and may also give rise to claims for compensation from our clients, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ongoing litigation with Oracle presents challenges for growing our business. -18- We have experienced challenges growing our business as a result of our ongoing litigation with Oracle. Many of our existing and prospective clients have expressed concerns regarding our ongoing litigation and, in some cases, have been subjected to various negative communications by Oracle in connection with the litigation. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience in the future, volatility and slowness in acquiring new clients, as well as clients not renewing their agreements with us, due to these challenges relating to our ongoing litigation with Oracle. Further, certain of our prospective and existing clients may be subject to additional negative communications from software vendors. We have taken steps to minimize disruptions to our existing and prospective clients regarding the litigation, but we continue to face challenges growing our business while the litigation remains ongoing. In certain cases, we have agreed to pay certain liquidated damages to our clients if we are no longer able to provide services to these clients, and/or reimburse our clients and our former lenders for their reasonable legal fees incurred in connection with any litigation-related subpoenas and depositions or to provide certain client indemnification or termination rights if any outcome of litigation results in our inability to continue providing any of the paid-for services. In addition, we believe the length of our sales cycle is longer than it otherwise would be due to prospective client diligence on possible effects of the Oracle litigation on our business. We cannot assure you that we will continue to overcome the challenges we face as a result of the litigation and continue to renew existing clients or secure new clients. Additionally, the existence of this ongoing litigation and, specifically, Oracles July 2020 contempt filing, could negatively impact the value of our equity securities, and could negatively impact our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing. We are self-insured for any costs related to any current or future intellectual property litigation, although we maintain and have tendered our errors and omissions insurance coverage for the wrongful acts alleged in Oracles contempt proceeding. However, our errors and omissions insurers may or may not provide defense or indemnification coverage for the contempt proceeding. While we currently believe our cash on hand, accounts receivable and contractually committed backlog provides us with liquidity to cover costs related to litigation with Oracle, we cannot assure our liquidity will be sufficient. Oracle has a history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products, and Oracle could pursue additional litigation with us. Oracle has been active in litigating against companies that have offered competing maintenance and support services for their products. For example, in March 2007, Oracle filed a lawsuit against SAP and its wholly-owned subsidiary, TomorrowNow, Inc.. After a jury verdict awarding Oracle $1.3 billion, the parties stipulated to a final judgment of $306 million subject to appeal. After the appeal, the parties settled the case in November 2014 for $356.7 million. In February 2012, Oracle filed suit against ServiceKey, Inc. and settled the case in October 2013 after the District Court issued an injunction against ServiceKey and its CEO. Oracle also filed suit against CedarCrestone Corporation in September 2012 and settled the case in July 2013. TomorrowNow and CedarCrestone offered maintenance and support for Oracle software products, and Service Key offered maintenance and support for Oracle technology products. Given Oracles history of litigation against companies offering alternative support programs for Oracle products, we can provide no assurance, regardless of the outcome of our current litigations with Oracle, that Oracle will not pursue additional litigation against us. Such additional litigation could be costly, distract our management team from running our business and reduce client interest and our sales revenue. We received a federal grand jury inquiry in March 2018 directing delivery of certain documents relating to our operations. If such inquiry leads to legal proceedings against us or any of our employees or members of our Board of Directors, we would incur legal costs and may potentially suffer an adverse outcome negatively affecting our business and financial results. In March 2018, we received a federal grand jury subpoena, issued from the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, requesting that we produce certain documents relating to specified support and related operational practices. We fully cooperated with this inquiry and the related document requests by April 15, 2019 and have received no further requests since that date. Accordingly, this will be the last update regarding this topic going forward unless and until any developments warrant subsequent disclosure. Any legal proceedings instituted involving us, if any, from such inquiry, regardless of merit or outcome, could have a negative impact on our future revenue, revenue growth, client acquisition and retention and ability to obtain new or alternative financing, would require us to incur additional legal costs, and if adversely determined, may ultimately result in the imposition of fines or other penalties. Any such resulting material costs and expenses or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry -19- The duration of and economic, operational and financial impacts on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the actions taken by governmental authorities, clients or others in response to the COVID-19 pandemic may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In response to the uncertain and rapidly evolving situation relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken precautionary measures to protect the health and well-being of our employees, clients, and the communities in which we operate. We have established work-at-home arrangements for most of our employees, placed restrictions on non-essential business travel, transitioned to a no in-person event marketing strategy and implemented a fully remote sales model. We believe that many of our clients are doing and will continue to do the same. These precautionary measures could impact our clients and potential clients ability or willingness to participate in our sales, marketing and client success efforts, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there is significant uncertainty around the breadth and duration of business disruptions related to COVID-19, as well as its impact on the global economy and consumer confidence. The COVID-19 pandemic could have a sustained adverse impact on economic and market conditions and trigger a period of global economic slowdown, which may delay prospective clients decisions regarding engaging our services, impair the ability of our current clients to make timely payments to us, cause our current clients to ask for payment concessions or discounts, impact client renewal rates and adversely affect our revenue. If such conditions occur, we may be required to increase our reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and our results of operations would be harmed. We are unable to accurately predict the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic due to various uncertainties, including the duration of the outbreak, the effectiveness of any vaccines developed to slow or stop the spread of the virus and actions that may be taken by governmental authorities to contain the virus. We closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, continually assessing its potential effects on our business. The extent to which our results are affected by COVID-19 will largely depend on future developments which cannot be accurately predicted and are uncertain, but the COVID-19 pandemic or the perception of its effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Further, due to our subscription-based business model, the effect of the pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods, and the global macroeconomic effects of the pandemic may persist for an indefinite period, even after the pandemic has subsided. Refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of COVID-19 for additional information. The market for independent software support services is relatively undeveloped and may not grow. The market for independent enterprise software support services is still relatively undeveloped, has not yet achieved widespread acceptance and may not grow quickly or at all. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to engage a third party such as us to provide software support services for their enterprise software. Many enterprise software licensees are still hesitant to use a third party to provide such support services, choosing instead to rely on support services provided by the enterprise software vendor. Other enterprise software licensees have invested substantial personnel, infrastructure and financial resources in their own organizations with respect to support of their licensed enterprise software products and may choose to self-support with their own internal resources instead of purchasing services from the enterprise software vendor or an independent provider such as ourselves. Companies may not engage us for other reasons, including concerns regarding our ongoing litigation with Oracle and governmental inquiry, the potential for future litigation, the potential negative effect our engagement could have on their relationships with their enterprise software vendor, or concerns that they could infringe third party intellectual property rights or breach one or more software license agreements if they engage us to provide support services. New concerns or considerations may also emerge in the future. Particularly because our market is relatively undeveloped, we must address our potential clients concerns and explain the benefits of our approach to convince them of the value of our services. If companies are not sufficiently convinced that we can address their concerns and that the benefits of our services are compelling, then the market for our services may not develop as we anticipate, and our business will not grow. We have had a history of losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. While we had net income of $13.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $301.7 million as of December 31, 2020. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods while managing our costs to become profitable, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. We intend to continue to expend significant funds to expand our sales and marketing operations, enhance our service offerings, expand into new markets, launch new product offerings and meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our operations as a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including, as a result of our ongoing litigation with Oracle, the potential for future litigation, -20- impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, other risks described herein, unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market price of our securities may significantly decrease. If we are unable to attract new clients or retain and/or sell additional products or services to our existing clients, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To increase our revenue, we must add new clients, encourage existing clients to renew or extend their agreements with us on terms favorable to us and sell additional products and services to existing clients. As competitors introduce lower-cost and/or differentiated services that are perceived to compete with ours, or as enterprise software vendors introduce competitive pricing or additional products and services or implement other strategies to compete with us, our ability to sell to new clients and renew agreements with existing clients based on pricing, service levels, technology and functionality could be impaired. As a result, we may be unable to renew or extend our agreements with existing clients or attract new clients or new business from existing clients on terms that would be favorable or comparable to prior periods, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and growth. In addition, certain of our existing clients may choose to license a new or different version of enterprise software from an enterprise software vendor, and such clients license agreements with the enterprise software vendor will typically include a minimum one-year mandatory maintenance and support services agreement. In such cases, it is unlikely that these clients would renew their maintenance and support services agreements with us, at least during the early term of the license agreement. In addition, such existing clients could move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer any products or services. If our retention rates decrease, or we do not accurately predict retention rates, our future revenue and results of operations may be harmed. Our clients have no obligation to renew their product or service subscription agreements with us after the expiration of a non-cancelable agreement term. In addition, the majority of our multi-year, non-cancelable client agreements are not pre-paid other than the first year of the non-cancelable service period. We may not accurately predict retention rates for our clients. Our retention rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our clients decision to license a new product or release from an enterprise software vendor, our clients decision to move to another enterprise software vendor, product or release for which we do not offer products or services, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our clients businesses, client satisfaction with our products and services, the acquisition of our clients by other companies, and clients going out of business. If our clients do not renew their agreements for our products and services or if our clients decrease the amount they spend with us, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. We face significant competition from both enterprise software vendors and other companies offering independent enterprise software support services, as well as from software licensees that attempt to self-support, which may harm our ability to add new clients, retain existing clients and grow our business. We face intense competition from enterprise software vendors, such as Oracle and SAP, who provide software support services for their own products. Enterprise software vendors have offered discounts to companies to whom we have marketed our services. In addition, our current and potential competitors and enterprise software vendors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future services less competitive or obsolete. Competition could significantly impede our ability to sell our services on terms favorable to us and we may need to decrease the prices for our services to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our results of operations will be negatively affected. There are also several smaller vendors in the independent enterprise software support services market with whom we compete with respect to certain of our services. We expect competition to continue to increase in the future, particularly if we prevail in Rimini II, which could harm our ability to increase sales, maintain or increase renewals and maintain our prices. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical and other resources than we have, may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services, have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. As a result, these competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies and provide more robust support offerings. In addition, certain independent enterprise software support organizations may have or may develop more cooperative relationships with enterprise software vendors, which may allow them to compete more effectively over the long term. Enterprise software vendors may also offer support services at reduced or no additional cost to their customers. In addition, enterprise software vendors may take other actions in an attempt to maintain their support service business, including changing the terms of their customer agreements, the functionality of their products or -21- services, or their pricing terms. For example, starting in the second quarter of 2017 Oracle has prohibited us from accessing its support websites to download software updates on behalf of our clients who are authorized to do so and permitted to authorize a third party to do so on their behalf. In addition, various support policies of Oracle and SAP may include clauses that could penalize customers that choose to use independent enterprise software support vendors or that, following a departure from the software vendors support program, seek to return to the software vendor to purchase new licenses or services. To the extent any of our competitors have existing relationships with potential clients for enterprise software products and support services, those potential clients may be unwilling to purchase our services because of those existing relationships. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our services could be substantially impacted. Our past growth is not indicative of our future growth, and if we grow rapidly, we may not be able to manage our growth effectively. Our revenue grew from $76.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 to $87.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2020, representing a period over period increase of 15%. Our revenue grew from $68.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 to $76.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, representing a period over period increase of 12%. Prior to the first quarter of 2020, we had been experiencing a decline in period over period revenue growth. The period over period decline in our revenue growth rates was due in part to covenants of our former Credit Facility that restricted our spending on sales and marketing activity that resulted in sequential reductions in new business activity during 2017 and the first half of 2018. An October 2017 amendment allowed us to increase our sales and marketing spending in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first half of 2018. Due to the termination of the Credit Facility on July 19, 2018, we are no longer subject to restrictions related to our sales and marketing spending. However, even though we have increased our sales and marketing spending since the termination of the Credit Facility, it can take several quarters before these efforts translate to improved revenue growth rates. In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2017 and continuing through 2018, some potential sales transactions were adversely affected by certain competitive actions that also impacted our revenue growth. You should not consider our past growth as indicative of our future performance. We believe growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: price our products and services effectively so that we are able to attract new clients and retain existing clients without compromising our profitability; introduce our products and services to new geographic markets; introduce new enterprise software products and services supporting additional enterprise software vendors, products and releases; satisfactorily conclude the Oracle litigation and our governmental inquiry and any other litigation or governmental inquiry that may occur; and increase awareness of our company, products and services on a global basis. We may not successfully accomplish all or any of these objectives. We plan to continue our investment in future growth. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on, among others: sales and marketing efforts; training to optimize our opportunities to overcome litigation risk concerns of our clients; expanding in new geographical areas; growing our product and service offerings and related capabilities; adding additional product and service offerings; and general administration, including legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. In addition, our historical rapid growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we add additional staff, and we will need to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas without undermining our corporate culture of rapid innovation, teamwork and attention to client service that has been central to our growth. Our failure to generate significant capital or raise additional capital necessary to fund and expand our operations and invest in new services and products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We may need to raise additional capital beyond funds raised from our issuance and sale of Series A Preferred Stock and our August 2020 Offering if we cannot fund our growth sufficiently and capital optimization efforts through our operating cash flows. Should this occur, we may not be able to obtain debt or additional equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. We -22- are also subject to certain restrictions for future financings as discussed in the risk factor Our Series A Preferred Stock and Convertible Notes restrict our ability to incur certain indebtedness, and the Convertible Notes contain additional restrictions and obligations that are currently effective or become effective upon certain events, which limit our flexibility in operating our business . If we raise additional equity financing our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of our Common Stock could decline. If we engage in debt financings, the holders of the debt securities or lenders would have priority over the holders of our Common Stock. We may also be required to accept terms that further restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, take other actions that would otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders, or force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: maintain our operations; develop or enhance our products and services; continue to expand our sales and marketing functions; devote resources to research and development activities; acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; expand operations, in the United States or globally; hire, train and retain employees; or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our failure to do any of these things could impact our ability to grow our revenue and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual and proprietary rights. Companies in the software industry are often required to defend against claims and litigation alleging infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors and other industry participants have been issued patents and/or have filed patent applications and may assert patent or other intellectual property rights within the industry. From time to time, we may receive threatening letters or notices alleging infringement or may be the subject of claims that our services and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. Any allegation of infringement, whether innocent or intentional, can adversely impact marketing, sales and our reputation. For example, as described further in the section titled Risk Factors-Risks Related to Litigation above, we are engaged in litigation with Oracle relating in part to copyright infringement claims. See the risk factor We and our Chief Executive Officer are involved in litigation with Oracle. An adverse outcome in the ongoing litigation could result in the payment of substantial damages and/or an injunction against certain of our business practices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results above for additional information regarding the Rimini I and Rimini II cases. We rely on our management team and other key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team, including Seth Ravin, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key employees. Since 2008, Mr. Ravin has been under the regular care of a physician for kidney disease, which includes ongoing treatment. During this time, Mr. Ravin has continuously performed all of his duties as Chief Executive Officer of our company on a full-time basis. Although Mr. Ravins condition has not had any impact on his performance in his role as Chief Executive Officer or on the overall management of the Company, we can provide no assurance that his condition will not affect his ability to perform the role of Chief Executive Officer in the future. In addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We may terminate any employee at any time, with or without cause, and any employee may resign at any time, with or without cause. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with -23- appropriate qualifications. In particular, we have experienced an extremely competitive hiring environment in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we have a significant amount of operations, but also face extremely competitive hiring environments across the United States and the other countries in which we operate. Further, our efforts to attract, develop, integrate and retain highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications may be compounded by intensified restrictions on travel (including during the COVID-19 pandemic), immigration, or the availability of work visas. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do. In addition, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options or other equity incentives they are to receive in connection with their employment. If the price of our stock declines or experiences significant volatility, our ability to attract or retain qualified employees will be adversely affected. In addition, as we continue to expand into new geographic markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the required management, sales, marketing and support services personnel to profitably grow our business. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our growth prospects could be severely harmed. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the relevant contract, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our results of operations. As a subscription-based business, we recognize revenue over the service period of our contracts. As a result, much of our reported revenue each quarter results from contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, while a shortfall in demand for our products and services or a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one quarter may not significantly reduce our revenue for that quarter, it could negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new sales, renewals or extensions of our service agreements will not be reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. Our revenue recognition model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new clients must be recognized over the applicable service contract term. Failure to effectively develop and expand our marketing and sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products and services. Our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products and services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our marketing and sales operations. We plan to continue expanding our sales force globally. These efforts will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Moreover, our sales personnel typically take an average of between nine to twelve months before any new sales personnel can operate at the capacity typically expected of experienced sales personnel. This ramp cycle, combined with our typical six- to twelve-month sales cycle for engaged prospects, means that we will not immediately recognize a return on this investment in our sales department. In addition, the cost to acquire clients is high due to the cost of these marketing and sales efforts. Our business may be materially harmed if our efforts do not generate a correspondingly significant increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our sales force if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel, if our new sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective. Interruptions to or degraded performance of our service could result in client dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, loss of clients, limited growth and reduction in revenue. Our software support agreements with our clients generally guarantee a 10-minute response time with respect to certain high-priority issues. To the extent that we do not meet the 10-minute guarantee, our clients may in some instances be entitled to liquidated damages, service credits or refunds. To date, no such payments have been made. We also deliver tax, legal and regulatory updates to our clients and generally have done so faster than our competitors. If there are inaccuracies in these updates, or if we are not able to deliver them on a timely basis to our clients, our reputation may be damaged, and we could face claims for compensation from our clients, lose clients, or both. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, security breaches or a result of any other issues, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and cause our revenue to decrease and our expenses to increase. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors, in turn, could further reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to pay liquidated damages, issue credits or cause clients not to renew their agreements with us, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. -24- We may experience fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors, including the sales cycles for our products and services, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Historically, our sales cycle has been tied to the renewal dates for our clients existing and prior vendor support agreements for the products that we support. Because our clients make support vendor selection decisions in conjunction with the renewal of their existing support agreements with Oracle and SAP, among other enterprise software vendors, we have experienced an increase in business activity during the periods in which those agreements are up for renewal. Because we have introduced and intend to continue to introduce products and services for additional software products that do not follow the same renewal timeline or pattern, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance, and comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Also, if we are unable to engage a potential client before its renewal date for software support services in a particular year, it will likely be at least another year before we would have the opportunity to engage that potential client again, given that such potential client likely had to renew or extend its existing support agreement for at least an additional years worth of service with its existing support provider. Furthermore, our existing clients generally renew their agreements with us at or near the end of each calendar year, so we have also experienced and expect to continue to experience heavier renewal rates in the fourth quarter. In addition to the other risks described herein, factors that may affect our quarterly results of operations include the following: changes in spending on enterprise software products and services by our current or prospective clients; pricing of our products and services so that we are able to attract and retain clients; acquisition of new clients and increases of our existing clients use of our products and services; client renewal rates and the amounts for which agreements are renewed; budgeting cycles of our clients; the occurrence of catastrophic events that may disrupt our business, including the COVID-19 pandemic; changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including consolidation among competitors or clients; the amount and timing of payment for operating expenses, particularly sales and marketing expenses and employee benefit expenses, as well as the quarterly Cash Dividends required to be made on our Series A Preferred Stock; the amount and timing of non-cash expenses, including stock-based compensation, PIK Dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock and other non-cash charges; the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, training and integrating new employees; the amount and timing of cash collections from our clients; unforeseen costs and expenses related to the expansion of our business, operations, infrastructure and new products and services such as Application Management Services (AMS); the amount and timing of our legal costs, particularly related to our litigation with Oracle; changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and general economic and political conditions in our global markets, including pandemic and other catastrophic conditions outside our control. We may not be able to accurately forecast the amount and mix of future product and service subscriptions, revenue and expenses, and as a result, our results of operations may fall below our estimates or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If our revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our Common Stock could decline. Our future liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of new orders, the level of client renewals and cash receipts from clients. Due to the collection of cash from our clients before services are provided, our revenue is recognized over future periods when there are no corresponding cash receipts from such clients. Accordingly, our future liquidity is depends upon the ability to continue to attract new clients and to enter into renewal arrangements with existing clients. If we experience a decline in orders from new clients or renewals from existing clients, our revenue may continue to increase while our liquidity and cash levels decline. Any such decline, however, will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of declines in orders from new clients or renewals from existing clients may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and cash flows until future periods. Comparing our revenues and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, as it may not be an indicator of the future sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity requirements. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance or liquidity. -25- We may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability, interest and/or penalties for past sales, which could adversely harm our business. State, local and foreign jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales, use, value-added and other taxes, and these rules and regulations can be complex and are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of such taxes to our products and services in various jurisdictions is unclear. Further, these jurisdictions rules regarding tax nexus are complex and can vary significantly. As a result, we could face the possibility of tax assessments and audits, and our liability for these taxes and associated interest and penalties could exceed our original estimates. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales, use, value-added or other taxes in those jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and in which we do not accrue for such taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities and related penalties for past sales, discourage clients from purchasing our products and services or otherwise harm our business and results of operations. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. We currently offer our clients support services for a fee that is equal to a percentage of the annual fees charged by the enterprise software vendor, so changes in such vendors fee structures would impact the fees we would receive from our clients. If the enterprise software vendors offer deep discounts on certain services or lower prices generally, we may need to change our pricing models or suffer adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we have recently begun to offer new products and services and do not have substantial experience with pricing such products and services, so we may need to change our pricing models for these new products and services over time to ensure that we remain competitive and realize a return on our investment in developing these new products and services. If we do not adapt our pricing models as necessary or appropriate, our revenue could decrease and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to scale our business systems quickly enough to meet our clients growing needs, and if we are not able to grow efficiently, our results of operations could be harmed. As enterprise software products become more advanced and complex, we will need to devote additional resources to innovating, improving and expanding our offerings to provide relevant products and services to our clients using these more advanced and complex products. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our internal business systems and our global operations and client engagement teams to serve our growing client base, particularly as our client demographics expand over time. Any such expansion may be expensive and complex, requiring financial investments, management time and attention. Any failure of or delay in these efforts could adversely affect the quality or success of our services and negatively impact client satisfaction, resulting in potential decreased sales to new clients and possibly lower renewal rates by existing clients. We could also face inefficiencies or operational failures as a result of our efforts to scale our infrastructure. There can be no assurance that the expansion and improvements to our infrastructure and systems will be fully or effectively implemented within budgets or on a timely basis, if at all. Any failure to efficiently scale our business could result in reduced revenue and adversely impact our operating margins and results of operations. We have experienced significant growth resulting in changes to our organization and structure, which if not effectively managed, could have a negative impact on our business. Our headcount and operations have grown in recent years. We increased the number of full-time employees from over 1,270 as of December 31, 2019 to over 1,420 as of December 31, 2020. We believe that our corporate culture has been a critical component of our success. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team and nurturing our culture. As we expand our business and operate as a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate culture while managing our employee growth. Any failure to manage our anticipated growth and related organizational changes in a manner that preserves our culture could negatively impact future growth and achievement of our business objectives. In addition, our organizational structure has become more complex as a result of our significant growth. We have added employees and may need to continue to scale and adapt our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit additional financial, operational and management resources before our revenue increases and without any assurances that our revenue will increase. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we likely will be unable to successfully execute our business strategy, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our long-term growth strategy involves further expansion of our sales to clients outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with global operations. -26- A significant component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and client base outside the United States. Accordingly, our international revenue grew from $101.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 to $135.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $34.0 million or 33%. We currently have subsidiaries outside of the United States in Australia, Brazil, Canada, UAE (Dubai), France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, which focus primarily on selling our services in those regions. In the future, we may expand to other locations outside of the United States. Our current global operations and future initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including: changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions; the occurrence of catastrophic events that may disrupt our business; changes in regulatory requirements, taxes or trade laws such as Brexit; more stringent regulations relating to data security, such as where and how data can be housed, accessed and used, and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information; differing labor regulations, especially in countries and geographies where labor laws are more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs as well as hire and retain local management, sales, marketing and support personnel, along with the ability to recapture costs to open up new geographies; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems and regulatory systems; increased logistics, travel, real estate, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with global operations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we choose to do so in the future; limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general preferences for local vendors; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection; political instability or terrorist activities; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash. Our limited experience in operating our business globally and the unique challenges of each new geography increase the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our global operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we fail to forecast our revenue accurately, or if we fail to match our expenditures with corresponding revenue, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. Because our recent growth has resulted in the rapid expansion of our business, we do not have a long history upon which to base forecasts of future operating revenue. In addition, the variability of the sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our products and services, which typically has been six to twelve months once a client is engaged, may also cause us to experience a delay between increasing operating expenses for such sales efforts, and the generation of corresponding revenue. Accordingly, we may be unable to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenue that we do not receive as a result of delays arising from these factors. As a result, our results of operations and liquidity in future reporting periods may be significantly below the expectations of the public market, securities analysts or investors, which could negatively impact the price of our Common Stock. Consolidation in our target sales markets is continuing at a rapid pace, which could harm our business in the event that our clients are acquired and their agreements are terminated, or not renewed or extended. Consolidation among companies in our target sales markets has been robust in recent years, and this trend poses a risk for us. If such consolidation continues, we expect that some of the acquiring companies will terminate, renegotiate and elect not -27- to renew our agreements with the clients they acquire, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If there is a widespread shift by clients or potential clients to enterprise software vendors, products and releases for which we do not provide software products or services, our business would be adversely impacted. Our current revenue is primarily derived from the provision of support services for Oracle and SAP enterprise software products. If other enterprise software vendors, products and releases emerge to take substantial market share from current Oracle and SAP products and releases we support, and we do not provide products or services for such vendors, products or releases, demand for our products and services may decline or our products and services may become obsolete. Developing new products and services to address different enterprise software vendors, products and releases could take a substantial investment of time and financial resources, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful. If fewer clients use enterprise software products for which we provide products and services, and we are not able to provide services for new vendors, products or releases, our business may be adversely impacted. Delayed or unsuccessful investment in new technology, products, services and markets may harm our financial condition and results of operations. We plan to continue investing resources in research and development in order to enhance our current product and service offerings, and other new offerings that will appeal to clients and potential clients, for example, our partnership with Salesforce to support SaaS solutions and our Application Management Services (AMS) for SAP and Oracle products. The development of new product and service offerings could divert the attention of our management and our employees from the day-to-day operations of our business, the new product and service offerings may not generate sufficient revenue to offset the increased research and development expenses, they may not generate gross profit margins consistent with our current margins, and if we are not successful in implementing the new product and service offerings, we may need to write off the value of our investment. Also, these new product and service offerings may be in markets that are more competitive than markets for our existing product and service offerings, making it more difficult to introduce them to clients and potential clients effectively or provide them profitably. Furthermore, if our new or modified products, services or technology do not work as intended, are not responsive to client needs or industry or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing and prospective clients or related opportunities, in which case our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. If our data security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to or misuse of client data occurs, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or cease their use of our services, our reputation may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. Further, we are subject to governmental and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. Our services sometimes involve accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing and transmitting proprietary information and protected data of our clients. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing and transmitting such information and data. If our security measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee, vendor or client error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business and our clients may be harmed, and we could incur significant liabilities. In particular, cyberattacks, such as phishing, continue to increase in frequency and in magnitude generally, and these threats are being driven by a variety of sources, including nation-state sponsored espionage and hacking activities, industrial espionage, organized crime, sophisticated organizations and hacking groups and individuals. In addition, if the security measures of our clients are compromised, even without any actual compromise of our own systems or security measures, we may face negative publicity or reputational harm if our clients or anyone else incorrectly attributes the blame for such security breaches to us, our products and services, or our systems. We may also be responsible for repairing any damage caused to our clients systems that we support, and we may not be able to make such repairs in a timely manner or at all. We may be unable to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems because they change frequently and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our client base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our systems or security measures or gain unauthorized access to our clients proprietary information and protected data. Many governments have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. In addition, some of our clients contractually require notification of any data security compromise. In the event of a data security compromise, we may have difficulty timely complying with notification requirements that are unreasonably short or burdensome. Security compromises experienced by our clients, by our competitors -28- or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any data security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode client confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to elect not to renew their agreements with us, or subject us to third party lawsuits, government investigations, regulatory fines or other action or liability, all or any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that any limitations of liability provisions in our contracts for a security breach would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of substantial deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a global company, we are subject to the laws and regulations of numerous jurisdictions worldwide regarding accessing, processing, sharing, using, storing, transmitting, disclosure and protection of personal data, the scope of which are constantly changing, subject to differing interpretation, and may be inconsistent between countries or in conflict with other laws, legal obligations or industry standards. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), in effect in the European Union (EU), creates a broad range of new compliance requirements and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance, including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual revenue for the preceding financial year or 20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements. We are also subject to certain requirements of the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, effective on January 1, 2020, which adds to the range of privacy-related compliance requirements. We generally comply with industry standards and strive to comply with all applicable laws and other legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection, but it is possible that these laws and legal obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with industry standards or our practices or may be mandated at a pace that exceeds our ability to comply. Compliance with such laws and other legal obligations may be costly and may require us to modify our business practices, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these laws, policies or other obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions or litigation against us, potential fines and other expenses related to such governmental actions, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices or business practices, and could cause our clients to lose trust in us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. If our products and services fail due to defects or similar problems, and if we fail to correct any defect or other software problems, we could lose clients, become subject to service performance or warranty claims or incur significant costs. Our products and services and the systems infrastructure necessary for the successful delivery of our products and services to clients are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. We have from time to time found defects in our products and services and may discover additional defects in the future. In particular, we have developed our own tools and processes to deliver comprehensive tax, legal and regulatory updates tailored for each client, which we endeavor to deliver to our clients in a shorter timeframe than our competitors, which may result in an increased risk of material defects or errors. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before clients begin to use our products and services. Consequently, defects or errors may be discovered after our products and services are provided and used. These defects or errors could also cause inaccuracies in the data we collect and process for our clients, or even the loss, damage or inadvertent release of such confidential data. Even if we are able to implement fixes or corrections to our tax, legal and regulatory updates in a timely manner, any history of defects or inaccuracies in the data we collect for our clients, or the loss, damage or inadvertent release of such confidential data could cause our reputation to be harmed, and clients may elect not to renew, extend or expand their agreements with us and subject us to service performance credits, warranty or other claims or increased insurance costs. The costs associated with any material defects or errors in our products and services or other performance problems may be substantial and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are a smaller reporting company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we take advantage of certain exemptions from reporting and disclosure requirements available to smaller reporting companies that are also accelerated filers within the meaning of the Securities Act, this could make our common stock less attractive to investors. While we are an accelerated filer, we are also a smaller reporting company (SRC), which allows us to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other accelerated filers that are not SRCs, including reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our Annual Report and our periodic reports and proxy statements. We will remain an SRC until (a) the aggregate market value of our outstanding common stock -29- held by non-affiliates as of the last business day our most recently completed second fiscal quarter exceeds $250 million or (b) (1) we have over $100 million in annual revenues and (2) the aggregate market value of our outstanding common stock held by non-affiliates as of the last business day our most recently completed second fiscal quarter exceeds $700 million. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We cannot predict whether investors will find our securities less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, the market prices of our securities may be lower than they otherwise would be, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the market prices of our securities may be more volatile. If we are not able to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. As reported in prior years, we have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, management determined that we had several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weaknesses related to the following: inadequate controls in relation to recognition of liabilities for embedded derivatives in connection with our former Credit Facility (2016); inadequate controls in relation to revenue recognition from support service sales contracts whereby we incorrectly accounted for multi-year, non-cancelable support service sales contracts as a single delivery arrangement and incorrectly accounting for revenue for certain non-standard contract provisions (2015 and 2016); various sales tax control matters related to manual processes and determination of tax liabilities in certain states (2015); and inadequate controls for accrual of loss contingencies related to our litigation with Oracle (2015). Although we remediated these material weaknesses during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we cannot provide assurance that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. With respect to controls over revenue accounting procedures, we intend to continue to work on automating our processes, especially around the new FASB revenue accounting standard, as well as to continue to enhance our review processes around new and renewal contracts. In addition, we are required to have our independent public accounting firm attest to and report on managements assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. For further information regarding our