ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References to the Company, our, us or we refer to GP Investments Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Companys behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 28, 2015 as a Cayman Islands exempted company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, the sale of warrants in a private placement that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our shares, debt or a combination of these as the consideration to be paid in our initial business combination. Results of Operations Since the completion of our Initial Public Offering, we have not generated any operating revenues and will not generate such revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. All activity from inception to September 30, 2015 relates to our formation, our Initial Public Offering and private placement and the identification and evaluation of prospective candidates for a Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and securities held, which we expect to be insignificant in view of the low yields on short-term government securities. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2015 and for the period from January 28, 2015 (inception) through September 30, 2015, we had a net loss of $51,827 and $59,198, respectively. The results of operations in each period mainly consist of operating costs, offset by interest earned on the Trust Account. Liquidity and Capital Resources On May 26, 2015, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 17,250,000 units (Units), which includes the exercise by the underwriters of their entire over-allotment option in the amount of 2,250,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $172,500,000 before underwriting discounts and expenses. Each Unit consists of one ordinary share and one-half of one warrant. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private sale of an aggregate of 6,062,500 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants), at a price of $1.00 per warrant in a private placement to GPIC, Ltd, a Bermuda company, generating gross proceeds of $6,062,500. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one ordinary share at $11.50 per share. We received net proceeds from our Initial Public Offering and sale of the Private Placement Warrants of $173,639,410, net of $4,312,500 cash paid for underwriting fees and $610,590 cash paid for offering costs. In addition, up to $6,037,500 of underwriting fees were deferred until the closing of a business combination. Upon the closing of our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants, $172,500,000 was placed into a trust account (Trust Account), while the remaining funds were placed in an account outside of the Trust Account for working capital purposes. As of September 30, 2015, we had cash and securities held in the Trust Account of $172,564,566 (including $64,566 of cash and accrued interest income) consisting of cash and U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be available to us to pay taxes and up to $100,000 of our dissolution expenses. Through September 30, 2015, we did not withdraw any funds from the interest earned on the Trust Account. Other than deferred underwriting fees payable in the event of a business combination, no amounts are payable to the underwriters of our Initial Public Offering. 13 As of September 30, 2015, we had cash of $1,045,663 held outside the Trust Account, which is available for use by us to cover the costs associated with identifying a target business and negotiating a business combination and other general corporate uses. In addition, as of September 30, 2015, we had accounts payable and accrued expenses of $20,329. For the period from January 28, 2015 (inception) through September 30, 2015, cash used in operating activities amounted to $118,747, mainly resulting from a net loss of $59,198, non-operating interest earned on the Trust Account of $64,566 and payment of transfer agent and trustee fees of $24,400. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account (less amounts used to pay taxes and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination, pay taxes to the extent the interest earned on the Trust Account is insufficient to pay our taxes and pay our NASDAQ annual fee. We believe we have sufficient capital to operate our business for at least the next twelve months. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating an initial business combination are less than the actual amounts necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our business combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the trust account. In addition, following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-balance sheet financing arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or enter into any non-financial agreements involving assets. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an administrative agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor, a total of $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial support and administrative services, commencing on the date our securities are first listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Upon the earlier of the completion of the initial business combination or the Companys liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Significant Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following significant accounting policy: Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption We account for our ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at September 30, 2015, the ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in the amount of $162,567,711 (or 16,250,688 shares) are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheet. 14