ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report to we, us or the Company refer to GP Investments Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to holders of our insider shares. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2015 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 28, 2015 as a Cayman Islands exempted company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, the sale of warrants in a private placement that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our shares, debt or a combination of these as the consideration to be paid in our initial business combination. Recent Events On April 19, 2016, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement ) with Lets Go Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ( Merger Sub ), WKI Holding Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( WKI ), and, solely in its capacity as the initial Holder Representative thereunder, WKI Group, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ( Holder Representative ). WKI is the parent company of World Kitchen, LLC, a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of houseware products whose portfolio of brands includes Corelle, Pyrex, CorningWare and Snapware, among others. The Merger Agreement provides that, among other things and in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Merger Sub will merge with and into WKI (the Merger ) with WKI continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Prior to the Merger, the Company shall domesticate as a Delaware corporation. On April 19, 2016, following execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, WKI delivered irrevocable written consents executed by WKI stockholders holding sufficient shares of WKI common stock to approve the Merger Agreement and the Merger. The aggregate purchase price is $500,000,000, as adjusted in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement (the Merger Consideration ). We will pay the Merger Consideration seventy-five percent (75%) in cash and twenty-five percent (25%) in newly issued shares of our common stock based on a per share issue price of $10.00 per share. At the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time ), (i) each outstanding share of WKI common stock that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and (ii) whether vested or unvested, each (A) Time-Based Option, (B) Performance-Based Option (assuming attainment of full performance targets) and (C) SAR (in each case, as defined in the Merger Agreement), granted for compensatory purposes to a WKI employee or outside WKI director or other service provider under a WKI Incentive Plan (as defined in the Merger Agreement) will automatically be cancelled and converted into the right to receive the applicable portion of the Merger Consideration as more particularly set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Consideration for SARs is payable entirely in cash. 16 The cash portion of the Merger Consideration is also subject to (i) a purchase price escrow of $5,000,000 for any post-closing adjustments to the purchase price and (ii) an indemnity escrow for eighteen months from the closing date of $5,000,000 for any indemnification claims by us under the Merger Agreement. Any proceeds remaining (i) in the purchase price escrow after completion of the post-closing purchase price adjustment and (ii) in the indemnification escrow after eighteen months, will be distributed to the pre-closing holders of WKI common stock, Time-Based Options, Performance-Based Options and SARs. We intend to finance the cash required for the Merger and related transactions primarily through a combination of cash held in the Trust Account after redemptions (as described herein), proceeds from the Credit Facilities and proceeds from the Equity Financing (in each case, as defined and as described below). However, the Merger Agreement is not conditioned on obtaining the debt financing under the Credit Facilities, the Equity Financing or any other third-party financing. In connection with the Merger Agreement, we entered into a debt commitment letter, dated as of April 19, 2016, with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Bank of Montreal and BMO Capital Markets Corp. (collectively, the Commitment Parties ), pursuant to which, among other things, the Commitment Parties have committed to provide, in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, (i) a $100 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the ABL Facility ) and (ii) a $250 million senior secured first lien term facility (the Term Facility and, together with the ABL Facility, the Credit Facilities ) to Merger Sub. Proceeds of the Term Facility will be used at Closing, together with up to $25 million of proceeds of the ABL Facility, to finance a portion of the Merger Consideration and fees, commissions and expenses in connection therewith. Upon the consummation of the Merger, the post-combination company will assume all of the obligations of the Merger Sub under the Credit Facilities. The Credit Facilities will be guaranteed by the Company, the parent entity of the Merger Sub, and certain of our direct or indirect wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries. The Credit Facilities will be secured by substantially all of the assets of the Merger Sub and such guarantors. The funding of the Credit Facilities is subject to customary conditions, including the negotiation of definitive documentation and other customary closing conditions. In connection with the Merger Agreement, we entered into an equity commitment letter, dated April 19, 2016, with the Sponsor, which will provide equity financing by means of purchasing newly issued shares of our common stock based on a per share issue price of $10.00 per share in an aggregate amount of up to $58 million (the Equity Financing ), of which (i) $50 million is solely for the purpose of providing a portion of the financing for the Merger and (ii) up to an additional $8 million is, for use only in certain circumstances, as further described in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the consummation of the Merger (whether before or after the required stockholder votes have been obtained) by mutual written consent of the Company and WKI and, in certain other limited circumstances, including if the Merger has not been consummated by September 20, 2016, subject to extension until November 19, 2016 in certain circumstances. In connection with the Merger Agreement and the receipt by certain of WKI's stockholders of shares of the Company's common stock in connection with the Merger, the Company, the Principal Stockholders of WKI and the Lock-up Stockholders of WKI (in each case, as defined in the Merger Agreement) have executed a letter agreement (the Stockholder Letter), dated as of April 19, 2016, pursuant to which, among other things, (i) the Principal Stockholders and the Lock-up Stockholders have agreed to certain restrictions regarding the transfer of the shares of our common stock to be received by such persons in connection with the Merger and (ii) we have agreed to provide certain registration rights to the Principal Stockholders and the Lock-up Stockholders. The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2016 as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K and the terms of which are incorporated by reference herein. Results of Operations Since the completion of our Initial Public Offering, we have not generated any operating revenues and will not generate such revenues until after the completion of our business combination. All activity from inception to March 31, 2016 relates to our formation, our Initial Public Offering and private placement and the identification and evaluation of prospective candidates for a business combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and securities held, which we expect to be insignificant in view of the low yields on short-term government securities. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 we had a net loss of $802,394, compared to $9,351 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2016 mainly consists of target identification expenses and operating costs of $1,066,912, offset by interest income of $161,227 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities of $103,291. Net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2015 consists of $9,351 in operating costs. 17 Liquidity and Capital Resources On May 26, 2015, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 17,250,000 Units, which includes the exercise by the underwriters of their entire overallotment option in the amount of 2,250,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $172,500,000 before underwriting discounts and expenses. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of an aggregate of 6,062,500 Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant in a private placement to GPIC, Ltd, a Bermuda company, generating gross proceeds of $6,062,500. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one ordinary share at $11.50 per share. We received net proceeds from our Initial Public Offering and sale of the Private Placement Warrants of $173,639,410, net of $4,312,500 cash paid for underwriting fees and $610,590 cash paid for offering costs. In addition, up to $6,037,500 of underwriting fees were deferred until the closing of a business combination. Upon the closing of our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants, $172,500,000 was placed into the Trust Account, while the remaining funds were placed in an account outside of the Trust Account for working capital purposes. As of March 31, 2016, we had cash and marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $172,842,770 (including approximately $239,000 of interest income) consisting of cash and U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be available to us to pay taxes and up to $100,000 of our dissolution expenses. Through March 31, 2016, we did not withdraw any funds from the interest earned on the Trust Account. Other than deferred underwriting fees payable in the event of a business combination, no amounts are payable to the underwriters of our Initial Public Offering. As of March 31, 2016, we had cash of $871,920 held outside the Trust Account, which is available for use by us to cover the costs associated with identifying a target business and negotiating a business combination and other general corporate uses. In addition, as of March 31, 2016, we had accounts payable and accrued expenses of $1,066,973, primarily representing amounts owed to certain service providers and advisors who have advised us on matters related to a potential business combination. We have entered into fee arrangements with certain service providers and advisors pursuant to which certain fees incurred by us in connection with a potential business combination will be deferred and become payable only if we consummate such potential business combination. If the potential business combination does not occur, we will not be required to pay these contingent fees. As of March 31, 2016, the amount of these contingent fees was approximately $1,881,000. To the extent the potential business combination is consummated, we anticipate incurring a significant amount of additional costs. There can be no assurances that we will complete this or any other business combination. In connection with the Merger discussed above, we have entered into commitments to pay certain creditors and advisors fees to be incurred by us in connection with the Merger. As of March 31, 2016, such fees have not been incurred and will become due and payable only if we consummate the Merger. If the Merger does not occur, we will not be required to pay these fees. As of March 31, 2016, the amount of the fees committed to be paid by us was approximately $16,894,000. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in operating activities amounted to $95,529, mainly resulting from a net loss of $802,394, offset by interest earned on the Trust Account of $161,227 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $103,291. Changes in working capital provided $971,383 of cash for operating activities. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account (less amounts used to pay taxes and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, structure, negotiate and complete a business combination, pay taxes to the extent the interest earned on the Trust Account is insufficient to pay our taxes and pay our NASDAQ annual fee. We may need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from our Sponsor, shareholders, officers, directors, or third parties. In May 2016, the Sponsor committed to provide us loans up to an aggregate of $500,000, of which no amounts were outstanding as of March 31, 2016. The loans will be non-interest bearing, unsecured and will only be repaid upon the completion of a business combination. 18 We believe we have sufficient capital to operate our business for at least the next twelve months from the filing date of this Report. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating an initial business combination are less than the actual amounts necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our business combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-balance sheet financing arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or enter into any non-financial agreements involving assets. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an administrative agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor a total of $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial support and administrative services, commencing on the date our securities are first listed on NASDAQ. Upon the earlier of the completion of the initial business combination or the Companys liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Significant Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following significant accounting policy: Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption We account for our ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at March 31, 2016, the ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheet.