ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report) includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Report, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy and plans, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, continue, could, currently, estimate, expect, future, intend, may, might, outlook, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, seem, seek, should, will, would and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information concerning: the evolution of the enterprise software management and support landscape facing our clients and prospects; our ability to educate the market regarding the advantages of our enterprise software management and support services and products; costs, including attorneys fees, associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims, such as those claims discussed under Legal Proceedings in Part II, Item 1 of this Report, and our expectations with respect to such litigation, including the disposition of pending motions to appeal, and any new claims; any additional expenses to be incurred to comply with the Rimini II Injunction and the impact on future period revenue and costs; estimates of our total addressable market; expectations of client savings relative to use of other providers; the occurrence of catastrophic events, including terrorism and geopolitical actions specific to an international region, that may disrupt our business or that of our current and prospective clients; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to maintain sufficient cash flow and capital or raise additional capital necessary to fund our operations and invest in new services and products; the impact of the debt service obligations and financial and operational covenants under both our Original Credit Facility and our 2024 Credit Facility on our business and related interest rate risk; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; the impact of any recessionary economic trends, including inflation, rising interest rates and changes in foreign exchange rates; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to expand our leadership position in independent enterprise software support and to sell our application management services (AMS) and Rimini ONE integrated services; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to further penetrate our existing client base; our ability to maintain our competitive technological advantages against new entrants in our industry; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; our ability to capitalize on changing market conditions including a market shift to hybrid and cloud/SaaS offerings for information technology environments and retirement of certain software releases by software vendors; our ability to develop strategic partnerships; benefits associated with the use of our services; our ability to expand internationally; our need and ability to raise equity or debt financing on favorable terms and our ability to generate cash flows from operations to help fund increased investment in our growth initiatives; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; our intentions with respect to our pricing model; cost of revenue, including changes in costs associated with production and client support; changes in laws or regulations, including tax laws or unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take, or a failure by us to establish adequate reserves for tax events; our ability to maintain our good standing with the United States and international governments and capture new contracts; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; our ability to prevent unauthorized access to our information technology systems and other cybersecurity threats, protect the confidential information of our employees and clients and comply with privacy and data protection regulations; 22 the amount and timing of repurchases, if any, under our stock repurchase program and our ability to enhance stockholder value through such program or any other actions to provide value to stockholders; the attraction and retention of additional qualified personnel, including sales personnel, and the retention of key personnel; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, subscriptions or technologies; uncertainty from the discontinuance of LIBOR and the transition to SOFR or other interest rate benchmarks; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations, including the contract renewal cycles for vendor-supplied software support and managed services; our ability to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and our ability to remediate any identified material weaknesses in our internal controls; and other risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy, short-term and long-term business operations and objectives, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. Moreover, we operate in very competitive and rapidly changing markets. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this Report are made as of the date of the filing, and except as required by law, we disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements in this Report. You should read this Report and the documents that we reference in this Report and have filed with the SEC as exhibits with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity and performance, as well as other events and circumstances, may be materially different from what we expect. Overview The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes to those statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, and our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2023 Form 10-K. Certain figures, such as interest rates and other percentages included in this section have been rounded for ease of presentation. Percentage figures included in this section have not in all cases been calculated based on such rounded figures but on the basis of such amounts prior to rounding. For this reason, percentage amounts in this section may vary slightly from those obtained by performing the same calculations using the figures in our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements or in the associated text. Certain other amounts that appear in this section may similarly not sum due to rounding. Rimini Street, Inc. was formed in the State of Nevada in 2005 and, through a merger in 2017 with a public company, became Rimini Street, Inc., a Delaware corporation, trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the ticker symbol RMNI. Rimini Street, Inc. and its subsidiaries (referred to as Rimini Street, the Company, we and us) are global providers of end-to-end enterprise software support, products and services. The Company offers a comprehensive family of unified solutions to run, manage, support, customize, configure, connect, protect, monitor, and optimize clients enterprise application, database, and technology software platforms. Over the years, as our reputation for technical capability, value, innovation, responsiveness and trusted reliability grew, clients and prospects began asking us to expand the scope of our support, product and service offerings to meet other current and evolving needs and opportunities related to their enterprise software. We also heard from prospects and clients that their goals include reducing the number of IT vendors to more manageable numbers from a governance perspective, with a desire to select vendors who can provide a wider scope of IT services and become true trusted partners. 23 To meet the needs of our clients and prospects and to service what we believe is a significantly expanded addressable market opportunity, we designed, developed and are now delivering a new, expanded solutions portfolio (our Solutions Portfolio) for a wider array of enterprise software including an expanded list of supported software; managed services for Oracle, SAP, IBM, Salesforce and open-source database software; and new solutions for security, interoperability, observability and consulting. We also now offer an integrated package of our services as Rimini ONE, a unique end-to-end, turnkey outsourcing option for Oracle and SAP landscapes designed to optimize our clients existing technologies with a minimum of 15 extended years of operating lifespan and enable our clients to focus their IT talent and budget on potentially higher-value, innovative projects that will support competitive advantage and growth. Enterprise software support, products and services is one of the largest categories of overall global information technology (IT) spending. We believe enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), product lifecycle management (PLM) database and technology software systems have become increasingly important in the operation of mission-critical business processes over the last 30 years. Also the costs associated with running and supporting these systems, system failure and downtime, security exposure, system integration and monitoring, and maintaining the tax, legal and regulatory compliance of these software systems have each contributed to increases in both actual spend and as a percentage of the typical full IT budget. As a result, we believe that licensees often view enterprise software support, products and services as a mandatory cost of doing business. The majority of our revenue through March 31, 2024, was generated from our support solutions. In a traditional licensing model, the customer typically procures a perpetual software license and pays for the license in a single upfront fee (perpetual license), and base software support services can be optionally procured from the software vendor for an annual fee that is typically 20-23% of the total cost of the software license. In a newer subscription-based licensing model, such as software as a service (SaaS), the customer generally pays for the usage of the software on a monthly or annual basis (subscription license). Under a subscription license, the product license and a base level of software support are generally bundled together as a single purchase, and the base level of software support is not procured separately nor is it an optional purchase. When we provide our support solutions for a perpetual software license, we generally offer our clients service for a fee that is equal to approximately 50% of the annual fees charged by the software vendor for their base support. When providing supplemental software support for a perpetual license, where the client procures our support service in addition to retaining the software vendors base support, we generally offer our clients service for a fee that is equal to approximately 25% of the annual fees charged by the software vendor for their base support. We also offer a special support service, Rimini Street Extra Secure Support, available to clients that require a more rigorous level of security background checks and/or government security clearance for engineers accessing a clients system than our standard employment security background check and requirements. Clients may be asked to pay an additional fee for Rimini Street Extra Secure Support. In addition to our support services, we also offer a breadth of enterprise software support, products and services through our full portfolio of solutions at an additional fee that is calculated based on a variety of factors and metrics. Our solutions are designed to meet specific client needs and are designed to provide what we believe is exceptional value and return for the fees charged. For more details about our Solutions Portfolio, please see Item 1 Business included in Part I of our 2023 Form 10-K. As of March 31, 2024, we employed over 2,130 professionals and supported approximately 3,040 active clients globally, including 70 Fortune 500 companies and 18 Fortune Global 100 companies across a broad range of industries. We define an active client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a business unit of a company that purchases our services to support a specific product. For example, we count as two separate active clients instances where we provide support for two different products to the same entity. Our subscription-based revenue provides a strong foundation for, and visibility into, future period results. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, we generated revenue of $106.7 million and $105.5 million, respectively, representing an increase of 1%. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recorded net income of $1.3 million, and as of March 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $200.9 million. Approximately 50% and 51% of our revenue was generated in the United States for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Approximately 50% and 49% of our revenue was generated in foreign jurisdictions for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Since our inception, we have financed our operations through cash collected from clients and net proceeds from equity financings and borrowings. 24 Global Economic Uncertainty We have experienced some clients not renewing our services due to the adverse impact on their businesses from current global economic uncertainty, as well as by the economic disruption continuing to be caused by the Israel-Hamas conflict, the Russian invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 and recent political and trade turmoil with China, amongst other global challenges. While we do not physically operate in Russia, the Ukraine or in mainland China, we do have operations in Israel. These global events, together with inflationary pressures, have negatively impacted the global economy, causing the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise interest rates in 2022. Despite these macroeconomic and geopolitical pressures, we expect to continue to be able to market, sell and provide our current and future products and services to clients globally. We also expect to continue investing in the development and improvement of new and existing products and services to address client needs. Further, although our operations are influenced by general economic conditions, we do not believe the impacts of economic disruptions described above had a significant net impact on our revenue or results of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2024. The extent to which rising inflation, interest rate increases, continuing global economic and geopolitical uncertainty impact our business going forward, however, will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict, including continued governmental and business actions in response to increasing global economic and geopolitical uncertainty. As such, the effects of rising inflation, interest rate increases and other negative impacts on the global economy may not be fully reflected in our financial results until future periods. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Report) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Recent Developments Reference is made to Notes 5 and 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for a discussion of recent developments regarding our 2024 Credit Facility and litigation with Oracle. Key Business Metrics Number of clients Since we founded our company, we have made the expansion of our client base a priority. We believe that our ability to expand our client base is an indicator of the growth of our business, the success of our sales and marketing activities, and the value that our services bring to our clients. We define an active client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a business unit of a company that purchases our services to support a specific product. For example, we count as two separate active clients when support for two different products is being provided to the same entity. As of March 31, 2024 and 2023, we had approximately 3,040 and 3,000 active clients, respectively. We define a unique client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution or a subsidiary, division or business unit of a company that purchases one or more of our products or services. We count as two separate unique clients when two separate subsidiaries, divisions or business units of an entity purchase our products or services. As of March 31, 2024 and 2023, we had over 1,530 and 1,500 unique clients, respectively. The increases in both our active and unique client counts have been a combination of new unique client wins as well as cross-sales of new support, products and services to existing clients. As noted previously, we intend to focus future growth on both new and existing clients. We believe that the growth in our number of clients is an indication of the increased adoption of our enterprise software products and services. Annualized recurring revenue We recognize subscription revenue on a daily basis. We define annualized recurring revenue as the amount of subscription revenue recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. This gives us an indication of the revenue that can be earned in the following 12-month period from our existing client base assuming no cancellations or price changes occur during that period. Subscription revenue excludes any non-recurring revenue, which has been insignificant to date. Our annualized recurring revenue was $416 million and $408 million as of March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We believe the sequential increase in annualized recurring revenue demonstrates a growing client base, which is an indicator of stability in future subscription revenue. 25 Revenue retention rate A key part of our business model is the recurring nature of our revenue. As a result, it is important that we retain clients after the completion of the non-cancellable portion of the support period. We believe that our revenue retention rate provides insight into the quality of our products and services and the value that our products and services provide our clients. We define revenue retention rate as the actual subscription revenue (dollar-based) recognized in a 12-month period from clients that existed on the day prior to the start of the 12-month period divided by our annualized recurring revenue as of the day prior to the start of the 12-month period. Our revenue retention rate was 89% and 92% for the 12 months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The decline in our revenue retention rate for the 12 months ended March 31, 2024 was due to attrition during the trailing twelve months, as certain clients did not renew specific subscriptions; however, in some cases these clients maintained or added subscriptions for other products and services. Our net billings during the three months ended March 31, 2024 declined $18.9 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily because we were unable to increase new client invoicing to offset the loss of some larger contracts. Gross profit margin We derive revenue through the provision of our enterprise software products and services. All the costs incurred in providing these products and services are recognized as part of the cost of revenue. The cost of revenue includes all direct product line expenses, as well as the expenses incurred by our shared services organization which supports all product lines. We define gross profit as the difference between revenue and the costs incurred in providing the software products and services. Gross profit margin is the ratio of gross profit divided by revenue. Our gross profit margin was approximately 59.8% and 62.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. While the gross profit margin declined for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to our investments, we continue to drive efficiency and effectiveness while supporting our clients. 26 Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, are presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Variance 2024 2023 Amount Percent Revenue $ 106,745 $ 105,512 $ 1,233 1.2% Cost of revenue: Employee compensation and benefits 27,783 25,138 2,645 10.5% Engineering consulting costs 6,463 6,677 (214) (3.2)% Administrative allocations (1) 4,039 3,732 307 8.2% All other costs 4,629 3,796 833 21.9% Total cost of revenue 42,914 39,343 3,571 9.1% Gross profit 63,831 66,169 (2,338) (3.5)% Gross profit margin 59.8 % 62.7 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 39,141 34,479 4,662 13.5% General and administrative 18,401 18,227 174 1.0% Reorganization costs 59 (59) (100.0)% Litigation costs and related recoveries, net 2,926 2,719 207 7.6% Total operating expenses 60,468 55,484 4,984 9.0% Operating income 3,363 10,685 (7,322) (68.5)% Non-operating income and (expenses): Interest expense (1,341) (1,339) (2) 0.1% Other income (expenses), net 964 528 436 82.6% Income before income taxes 2,986 9,874 (6,888) (69.8)% Income taxes (1,669) (4,235) 2,566 (60.6)% Net income $ 1,317 $ 5,639 $ (4,322) (76.6)% - (1)Includes the portion of costs for IT, security services and facilities costs that are allocated to cost of revenue. In our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the total of such costs is allocated between cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, based primarily on relative headcount, except for facilities which is based on occupancy. Revenue. Revenue increased from $105.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $106.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $1.2 million or 1%. The increase was driven by an 2% increase in the average number of unique clients from 1,509 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to 1,535 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. On a geographic basis, United States revenue grew from $53.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $53.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $0.4 million or 1%. Our international revenue grew from $52.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $52.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $0.9 million or 2%. Cost of revenue. Cost of revenue increased from $39.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $42.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $3.6 million or 9%. The key drivers related to the cost of revenue increase were a $2.6 million increase in employee compensation and benefits to support an average headcount increase of 22%, a $0.3 million increase in administrative allocations and a $0.8 million increase in all other costs. These cost increases were offset by a $0.2 million decrease in engineering consulting costs. As discussed in Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, the District Court issued its findings of fact and conclusions of law in Rimini II, accompanied by the Rimini II 27 Injunction on July 24, 2023. The District Court found infringement as to Oracles PeopleSoft and Oracle Database products. As a result of the findings, we are likely to incur additional expenses for incremental labor costs in order to comply with the District Courts Rimini II Injunction. At this time, we have yet to determine the impact on future period costs. Any adverse outcome in our ongoing judicial proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Gross profit. Gross profit decreased from $66.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $63.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $2.3 million or 4%. Gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was 62.7% compared to 59.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the total cost of revenue increased by 9%, primarily due to an increase in average headcount of 22% compared to an increase in revenue of 1% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. As a result, our gross profit margin declined by 290 basis points period over period. We expect margin pressures in the short-term as we invest in our new offerings. Sales and marketing expenses. As a percentage of our revenue, sales and marketing expenses were 37% and 33% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. In dollar terms, sales and marketing expenses increased from $34.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $39.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $4.7 million or 14%. This increase was primarily due to an increase in travel and entertainment costs of $4.4 million, primarily related to a sales training event held in January 2024. In addition, we incurred an increase in employee compensation and benefits of $0.7 million and an increase of administrative allocations and all other costs of $0.6 million. These increases were offset by declines in marketing and advertising costs of $0.7 million and contract labor of $0.5 million. We will continue to seek to accelerate our future revenue growth by investing in more resources. The $0.7 million increase in sales and marketing expense attributable to employee compensation and benefits for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily due to an increase in salaries, wages and benefits of $0.6 million and commissions of $0.5 million offset by decreases in bonuses and all other compensation of $0.4 million. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased from $18.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $18.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $0.2 million or 1%. This increase was comprised of several items, which included an increase in salaries, wages, bonuses and benefits of $0.6 million, an increase in computer supplies and licenses of $0.4 million and an increase in travel and entertainment costs of $0.3 million. These incremental expenses were offset by a decline in other tax costs of $0.5 million, a decline in professional service costs of $0.5 million and a decline of recruitment costs of $0.3 million. Looking forward on a quarter-over-quarter basis, we are monitoring the demand for our services in light of current global economic conditions and will adjust our expenditures accordingly. However, we expect to incur higher expenses associated with supporting the growth of our business, both in terms of size and geographical diversity. Our company costs that are expected to increase in the future include costs relating to additional information systems costs, costs for additional personnel in our accounting, human resources, IT and legal functions, SEC and Nasdaq fees, and incremental professional, legal, audit and insurance costs. As a result, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in dollar terms in future periods. Litigation costs, net of related insurance recoveries. Litigation costs, net of related insurance recoveries, consist of the following (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Professional fees and other costs of litigation $ 2,926 $ 2,719 $ 207 Litigation costs and related recoveries, net $ 2,926 $ 2,719 $ 207 Professional fees and other costs associated with litigation increased from $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $0.2 million. This increase was primarily due to costs incurred for our appeal preparation of the Rimini II decision with the Ninth Circuit on June 5, 2024. There were no insurance costs and related recoveries, net incurred for either the three months ended March 31, 2023 or for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We are self-insured for any costs related to any current or future intellectual property litigation. We currently believe our cash on hand, accounts receivable and contractually committed backlog provides us with sufficient liquidity to cover our ongoing attorneys fees and related costs, such as travel, hotels and consultants, associated with ongoing litigation, including Rimini II. However, please refer to the litigation matters as disclosed in Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for further information. 28 Interest expense. Interest expense was $1.3 million for both the three months ended March 31, 2023 and the three months ended March 31, 2024. Interest expense slightly increased primarily due to rising interest rates on our five-year Original Credit Facility, which increased from an average interest rate of 6.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to an average interest rate of 7.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. These rising interest rates were offset, in part, by a reduction of interest costs during the three months ended March 31, 2024, due to a net year over year increase in payments received from our interest rate swap of $0.1 million. Other income (expenses), net. Other income (expenses), net is primarily comprised of interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses, and other non-operating income and expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net other income of approximately $1.0 million was comprised primarily of gains from cash equivalents and investments. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net other expenses of approximately $0.5 million was comprised primarily of gains from cash equivalents and investments of $0.9 million which were offset, in part, by foreign exchange losses of approximately $0.4 million. Income tax expense. We had an income tax expense of $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to an income tax expense of $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the primary reason for the decrease in income tax expense was due to a decrease of income before taxes of $6.9 million in the current year period compared to the prior year period as well as a decrease in foreign withholding taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of March 31, 2024, we had a working capital deficit of $44.5 million and an accumulated deficit of $200.9 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recorded net income of $1.3 million. As of March 31, 2024, we had available cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $129.4 million. On April 30, 2024, we refinanced our Original Credit Facility, which had an outstanding principal balance of $70.9 million, with a new five-year senior secured credit facility (2024 Credit Facility) consisting of a $75.0 million term loan and a $35.0 million revolving line of credit. On that date, we had outstanding term loan borrowings under our 2024 Credit Facility of $75.0 million. In addition, we had availability of $35.0 million under our new revolving line of credit. We have a choice of interest rates under the 2024 Credit Facility between (a) SOFR and (b) Base Rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin remains the same as the Original Credit Facility and is based on our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2024 Credit Facility) and whether we elect SOFR (ranging from 2.75% to 3.50%) or a Base Rate (ranging from 1.75% to 2.5%). Interest on the unused portion of the revolving credit line is at rates of between 25 to 40 basis points, depending on our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio. Annual minimum principal payments over the five-year term for the 2024 Credit Facility are 5%, 5%, 7.5%, 7.5%, and 10%, respectively, with the remaining balance due at the end of the original term. Please refer to Note 5 to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for information regarding our Original Credit Facility. A key component of our business model requires that substantially all clients prepay us annually for the services we will provide over the following year or longer. As a result, we typically collect cash from our clients in advance of when the related service costs are incurred, which resulted in deferred revenue of $230.0 million that is included in current liabilities as of March 31, 2024. Therefore, we believe that working capital deficit is not as meaningful in evaluating our liquidity since the historical costs of fulfilling our commitments to provide services to clients are currently limited to approximately 40% of the related deferred revenue based on our gross profit percentage of 60% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. For the next year, assuming that our operations are not significantly impacted by rising inflation, interest rate increases, other global economic or geopolitical uncertainties, or the litigation matters as disclosed in Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, we believe that cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $129.4 million as of March 31, 2024, plus future cash flows from operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs including working capital requirements, planned capital expenditures and our contractual obligations. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including client growth, number of employees, expansion of sales and marketing activities, and the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings. We may also enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, or intellectual property rights in the future. We may choose to seek additional debt or equity financing to support these long-term capital requirements. 29 Alternatively, we may also consider reducing amounts outstanding under our 2024 Credit Facility to minimize our exposure to rising interest rates. If interest rates continue to increase as expected and adverse economic changes occur, we may not be able to access credit on terms favorable to us, impacting our ability to support these long-term capital requirements. In an economic downturn, we may also be unable to raise capital through debt or equity financings on terms acceptable to us or at all. Covenants in our 2024 Credit Facility could also have consequences on our operations, including restricting or delaying our ability to obtain additional financing, potentially limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions or respond to business opportunities. Additionally, in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict when macroeconomic uncertainty may arise, whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business and our liquidity requirements. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we generated cash flows from our operating activities of approximately $11.1 million, which was derived from net income of $1.3 million as well as adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash of approximately $4.0 million and a favorable change in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $5.7 million. We believe that our operating cash flows for the year ending December 31, 2024 will be sufficient to fund the portion of our contractual obligations that is not funded with existing capital resources. Cash Flows Summary Presented below is a summary of our operating, investing and financing cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 11,088 $ 8,643 Investing activities 8,654 (346) Financing activities (1,775) (1,101) The effect of foreign currency translation was unfavorable by $4.4 million and $35 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, due to unfavorable foreign exchange impacts related to foreign cash. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we experienced a significant change in foreign currency exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened against the majority of foreign currencies where we operate. The unfavorable foreign currency impact was primarily related to our foreign cash held in Japan as the Japanese yen weakened significantly against the U.S. dollar. Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities As clients typically prepay us annually for the services which we will provide over the following year or longer, we typically collect cash in advance of the date when the vast majority of the related services are provided. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash flows provided by operating activities amounted to approximately $11.1 million. The key drivers resulting in our cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024, included net income of $1.3 million and adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash totaling $4.0 million, as well as favorable changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.7 million, resulting in net cash provided by operating activities of $11.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $2.6 million, amortization and accretion related to operating lease ROU assets of $1.1 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.9 million and accretion and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $0.2 million. These favorable items were offset by deferred income taxes of $0.8 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, net consisted of favorable changes to accounts receivable of $39.8 million, prepaid expenses, deposits and other assets of $3.5 million and deferred contract costs of $2.5 million. The favorable change to accounts receivable was a result of collecting $116.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 which was offset by billings, net of $74.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. As a result, our days sales outstanding for accounts receivable was 97 days as of March 31, 2024. The favorable change in deferred contract costs was due to capitalizing $2.5 million of commissions and amortizing $5.0 million of deferred contract costs during the three months ended March 31, 2024. 30 Offsetting these favorable changes were unfavorable changes to accrued liabilities of $8.4 million, deferred revenue of $29.3 million and accounts payable of $2.3 million. The unfavorable use of cash for accrued liabilities related primarily to paying incremental compensation related to bonuses and commissions of $8.1 million during the current period. Regarding the use of cash for deferred revenue, it was due to recognizing $106.7 million in revenue for the current period, which was offset by recording billings, net of $74.1 million during the current period. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash flows provided by operating activities amounted to approximately $8.6 million. The key drivers resulting in our cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included net income of $5.6 million, as well as adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash totaling $4.5 million. These two items were offset, in part, by unfavorable changes in operating assets and liabilities of $1.5 million, resulting in net cash provided by operating activities of $8.6 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $2.0 million, amortization and accretion related to operating lease ROU assets of $1.1 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.6 million, accretion and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $0.2 million and deferred income taxes of $0.5 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, net primarily consisted of favorable changes to accounts receivable of $26.9 million and deferred contract costs of $1.4 million. The favorable change to accounts receivable was a result of collecting $121.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to billings, net of $93.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. As a result, our days sales outstanding for accounts receivable was 96 days as of March 31, 2023. The favorable change in deferred contract costs was due to capitalizing $3.2 million of commissions and amortizing $4.6 million of deferred contract costs during the three months ended March 31, 2023. The favorable cash sources noted above were offset by unfavorable uses of cash related to changes to accrued liabilities of $14.8 million, deferred revenue of $12.5 million, accounts payable of $2.1 million and prepaid expenses, deposits and other assets of $0.4 million. The unfavorable use of cash for accrued liabilities was due to making payments of $2.5 million related to our reorganization plan, incurring incremental professional fee payments of $4.4 million, and paying incremental compensation related primarily to bonuses and commissions of $6.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. The related use of cash for deferred revenue was due to recognizing $105.5 million of revenue during the period, which was offset by recording billings, net of $93.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Cash Flows Provided By Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities totaled $8.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and cash used in investing activities totaled $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by proceeds from sales of short-term investments of $17.3 million offset by purchases of short-term investments of $7.5 million and capital expenditures for leasehold improvements, software development costs, and computer equipment of $1.2 million. The capital expenditures consisted primarily of capitalized software development costs, new computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures in our U.S. entity of $0.7 million and $0.4 million for computer equipment at our foreign locations, primarily in Brazil of $0.2 million and in India of $0.2 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities of $0.3 million consisted of investment purchases of $7.7 million, which were offset by proceeds from sales of investments of $8.4 million, as well as capital expenditures of $1.0 million. The capital expenditures consisted of $0.8 million primarily for new computer equipment and capitalized development costs in our U.S. entity and $0.2 million for computer equipment at our foreign locations, primarily in India of $0.1 million and Brazil of $0.1 million. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash utilized in financing activities of $1.8 million was attributable to principal payments related to the Original Credit Facility of $1.7 million and capital lease payments of $0.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash utilized in financing activities of $1.1 million was attributable to principal payments related to the Original Credit Facility of $1.1 million and capital lease payments of $47 thousand. These cash uses were offset by proceeds of $0.1 million received from stock option exercises. 31 Foreign Subsidiaries Our foreign subsidiaries and branches are dependent on our U.S.-based parent for continued funding. We currently do not intend to repatriate any amounts that have been invested overseas back to the U.S.-based parent. However, we may still be liable for withholding taxes, state taxes, or other income taxes that might be incurred upon the repatriation of foreign earnings. We have not made any provision for additional income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. As of March 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $45.4 million held by our foreign subsidiaries. Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the reported revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These items are monitored and analyzed for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Changes in estimates are reflected in reported results for the period in which they become known. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2023 Form 10-K, and we discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7 of our 2023 Form 10-K. Since the filing of our 2023 Form 10-K, there have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed therein. Recent Accounting Pronouncements From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the FASB or other standard setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. For additional information on recently issued accounting standards and our plans for adoption of those standards, please refer to the section titled Recent Accounting Pronouncements under Note 2 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes - Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures. The guidance requires disaggregating income tax disclosures relating to the effective tax rate reconciliation and income taxes paid. ASU 2023-09 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024, though early adoption is permitted. We are assessing the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures. We believe that no other recently issued accounting standards will have a material impact on our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements or apply to our operations.