ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report) includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Report, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy and plans, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, will, would and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information concerning: the evolution of the enterprise software management and support landscape facing our clients and prospects; our ability to educate the market regarding the advantages of our enterprise software management and support services and products; estimates of our total addressable market; expectations of client savings relative to use of other providers; the occurrence of catastrophic events, including terrorism and geopolitical actions specific to an international region, that may disrupt our business or that of our current and prospective clients; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to maintain sufficient cash flow and capital or raise additional capital necessary to fund our operations and invest in new services and products; the impact of our Credit Facilitys debt service obligations and financial and operational covenants on our business and related interest rate risk; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; the impact of any recessionary economic trends, including inflation, rising interest rates and changes in foreign exchange rates; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to expand our leadership position in independent enterprise software support and to sell our application management services (AMS) and Rimini ONE integrated services; our ability to attract and retain clients and our ability to further penetrate our existing client base; any future actions taken by governmental authorities, clients or others in response to any lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic; our ability to maintain our competitive technological advantages against new entrants in our industry; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; our ability to capitalize on changing market conditions including a market shift to hybrid and cloud/SaaS offerings for information technology environments and retirement of certain software releases by software vendors; our ability to develop strategic partnerships; benefits associated with the use of our services; our ability to expand internationally; our need and ability to raise equity or debt financing on favorable terms and our ability to generate cash flows from operations to help fund increased investment in our growth initiatives; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; our intentions with respect to our pricing model; cost of revenue, including changes in costs associated with production and client support; changes in laws or regulations, including tax laws or unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take, or a failure by us to establish adequate reserves for tax events; our ability to maintain our good standing with the United States and international governments and capture new contracts; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims, such as those claims discussed under Legal Proceedings in Part II, Item 1 of this Report and our expectations with respect to such litigation; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; our ability to prevent unauthorized access to our information technology systems and other cybersecurity threats, protect the confidential information of our employees and clients and comply with privacy and data protection regulations; 20 the amount and timing of repurchases, if any, under our stock repurchase program and our ability to enhance stockholder value through such program or any other actions to provide value to stockholders; the attraction and retention of additional qualified personnel, including sales personnel, and the retention of key personnel; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, subscriptions or technologies; uncertainty from the discontinuance of LIBOR and the transition to SOFR or other interest rate benchmarks; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations, including the contract renewal cycles for vendor-supplied software support and managed services; our ability to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and our ability to remediate any identified material weaknesses in our internal controls; and other risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy, short-term and long-term business operations and objectives, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. Moreover, we operate in very competitive and rapidly changing markets. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this Report are made as of the date of the filing, and except as required by law, we disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements in this Report. You should read this Report and the documents that we reference in this Report and have filed with the SEC as exhibits with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity and performance, as well as other events and circumstances, may be materially different from what we expect. Overview The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes to those statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, and our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2022, included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2022 Form 10-K. Certain figures, such as interest rates and other percentages included in this section have been rounded for ease of presentation. Percentage figures included in this section have not in all cases been calculated based on such rounded figures but on the basis of such amounts prior to rounding. For this reason, percentage amounts in this section may vary slightly from those obtained by performing the same calculations using the figures in our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements or in the associated text. Certain other amounts that appear in this section may similarly not sum due to rounding. Rimini Street, Inc. was formed in the State of Nevada in 2005 and, through a merger in 2017 with a public company, became Rimini Street, Inc., a Delaware corporation, trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the ticker symbol RMNI. Rimini Street, Inc. and its subsidiaries (referred to as Rimini Street, the Company, we and us) are global providers of end-to-end enterprise software support, products and services. The Company offers a comprehensive family of unified solutions to run, manage, support, customize, configure, connect, protect, monitor, and optimize clients enterprise application, database, and technology software platforms. Over the years, as our reputation for technical capability, value, innovation, responsiveness and trusted reliability grew, clients and prospects began asking us to expand the scope of our support, product and service offerings to meet other current and evolving needs and opportunities related to their enterprise software. We also heard from prospects and clients that their goals include reducing the number of IT vendors to more manageable numbers from a governance perspective, with a desire to select vendors who can provide a wider scope of IT services and become true trusted partners. 21 To meet the needs of our clients and prospects and to service what we believe is a significantly expanded addressable market opportunity, we designed, developed and are now delivering a new, expanded solutions portfolio (our Solutions Portfolio) for a wider array of enterprise software including an expanded list of supported software; managed services for Oracle, SAP, IBM, Salesforce and open-source database software; and new solutions for security, interoperability, observability and consulting. We also now offer an integrated package of our services as Rimini ONE, a unique end-to-end, turnkey outsourcing option for Oracle and SAP landscapes designed to optimize our clients existing technologies with a minimum of 15 extended years of operating lifespan and enable our clients to focus their IT talent and budget on potentially higher-value, innovative projects that will support competitive advantage and growth. Enterprise software support, products and services is one of the largest categories of overall global information technology (IT) spending. We believe enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), product lifecycle management (PLM) database and technology software systems have become increasingly important in the operation of mission-critical business processes over the last 30 years. Also the costs associated with running and supporting these systems, system failure and downtime, security exposure, system integration and monitoring, and maintaining the tax, legal and regulatory compliance of these software systems have each contributed to increases in both actual spend and as a percentage of the typical full IT budget. As a result, we believe that licensees often view enterprise software support, products and services as a mandatory cost of doing business. The majority of our revenue through March 31, 2023, was generated from our support solutions. In a traditional licensing model, the customer typically procures a perpetual software license and pays for the license in a single upfront fee (perpetual license), and base software support services can be optionally procured from the software vendor for an annual fee that is typically 20-23% of the total cost of the software license. In a newer subscription-based licensing model, such as software as a service (SaaS), the customer generally pays for the usage of the software on a monthly or annual basis (subscription license). Under a subscription license, the product license and a base level of software support are generally bundled together as a single purchase, and the base level of software support is not procured separately nor is it an optional purchase. When we provide our support solutions for a perpetual software license, we generally offer our clients service for a fee that is equal to approximately 50% of the annual fees charged by the software vendor for their base support. When providing supplemental software support for a perpetual license, where the client procures our support service in addition to retaining the software vendors base support, we generally offer our clients service for a fee that is equal to approximately 25% of the annual fees charged by the software vendor for their base support. We also offer a special support service, Rimini Street Extra Secure Support, available to clients that require a more rigorous level of security background checks and/or government security clearance for engineers accessing a clients system than our standard employment security background check and requirements. Clients may be asked to pay an additional fee for Rimini Street Extra Secure Support. In addition to our support services, we also offer a breadth of enterprise software support, products and services through our full portfolio of solutions at an additional fee that is calculated based on a variety of factors and metrics. Our solutions are designed to meet specific client needs and are designed to provide what we believe is exceptional value and return for the fees charged. For more details about our Solutions Portfolio, please see Item 1 Business included in Part I of our 2022 Form 10-K. As of March 31, 2023, we employed over 1,860 professionals and supported over 3,000 active clients globally, including 78 Fortune 500 companies and 17 Fortune Global 100 companies across a broad range of industries. We define an active client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a business unit of a company that purchases our services to support a specific product. For example, we count as two separate active clients instances where we provide support for two different products to the same entity. Our subscription-based revenue provides a strong foundation for, and visibility into, future period results. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we generated revenue of $105.5 million and $97.9 million, respectively, representing an increase of 8%. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded net income of $5.6 million, and as of March 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $222.6 million. Approximately 51% and 53% of our revenue was generated in the United States for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Approximately 49% and 47% of our revenue was generated in foreign jurisdictions for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Since our inception, we have financed our operations through cash collected from clients and net proceeds from equity financings and borrowings. 22 Global Economic Uncertainty and Impact of COVID-19 We have experienced some clients not renewing our services as their businesses have been adversely impacted during the COVID-19 pandemic and the current global economic uncertainty, as well as by the further economic disruption caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine in early fiscal 2022 and recent political turmoil in China. While we do not physically operate in Russia, the Ukraine or in mainland China, these global events, together with fiscal and monetary policy adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic, has increased inflationary cost pressures, negatively impacting the global economy and causing the U.S. Federal Reserve to begin raising interest rates in March 2022. We expect additional rate increases in the future. Despite these macroeconomic and geopolitical pressures, we expect to continue to be able to market, sell and provide our current and future products and services to clients globally. We also expect to continue investing in the development and improvement of new and existing products and services to address client needs. Further, although our operations are influenced by general economic conditions, we do not believe the impacts of economic disruptions described above, including the lingering COVID-19 pandemic had a significant net impact on our revenue or results of operations during the three ended March 31, 2023. The extent to which rising inflation, interest rate increases, continuing global economic and geopolitical uncertainty, and any lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic impact our business going forward, however, will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict, including continued governmental and business actions in response to increasing global economic uncertainty, including the possibility of recession or financial market instability, and any lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. As such, the effects of rising inflation, interest rate increases and other negative impacts, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, on the global economy may not be fully reflected in our financial results until future periods. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Report) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Recent Developments On February 22, 2023, the Company amended its Credit Facility. The amendment implemented certain changes in the reference rate from LIBOR to SOFR. As of February 28, 2023, the Company has a choice of interest rates between (a) Adjusted Term SOFR and (b) Base Rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin remains the same as the existing Credit Agreement and is based on the Companys Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and whether the Company elects Adjusted Term SOFR (ranging from 1.75 to 2.50%) or Base Rate (ranging from 0.75 to 1.50%). In addition, the amendment adjusted the definition of Consolidated EBITDA to provide an addback solely for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2022, and any period including such quarter, that costs and legal fees and expenses incurred by the Company in connection with its ongoing litigation with Oracle up to $10.0 million can be added back and included in the applicable calculation of the Consolidated EBITDA. On October 10, 2022, our Public Warrants, including the one-half Public Warrant underlying each of our then-outstanding units, and our Private Placement Warrants expired unexercised in accordance with their terms. Prior to this date, each of the units consisted of one-half Public Warrant and one share of our Common Stock. As such, upon the expiration of the Public Warrants, our units were separated into the component underlying securities so that each former holder of one unit became the beneficial owner of one share of our Common Stock. On May 28, 2022, the Board of Directors authorized an increase to our previously announced Common Stock repurchase program to increase the value of the securities that could be acquired by us from up to $15.0 million over two years to up to $50.0 million over the next four years, subject to continuing compliance with our Credit Facility, provided that all other applicable conditions and legal requirements are satisfied. On February 27, 2022, the Board of Directors approved the adoption of a stock repurchase program to acquire up to $15.0 million of our Common Stock both on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans, through March 4, 2024, subject to compliance with our Credit Facility, which was amended effective January 14, 2022 to increase the aggregate value of the shares of Common Stock that could be acquired by us to no greater than $15.0 million during the term of the Credit Facility, provided that all other applicable conditions and legal requirements are satisfied. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we acquired 0.6 million shares of Common Stock on the open market at a cost of $3.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we acquired an aggregate 0.9 million shares of Common Stock on the open market at a total cost of $4.7 million. Upon completion of all repurchase transactions, the acquired shares of Common Stock were retired. 23 Reference is made to Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for a discussion of recent developments in our litigation with Oracle. Key Business Metrics Number of clients Since we founded our company, we have made the expansion of our client base a priority. We believe that our ability to expand our client base is an indicator of the growth of our business, the success of our sales and marketing activities, and the value that our services bring to our clients. We define an active client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a business unit of a company that purchases our services to support a specific product. For example, we count as two separate active clients when support for two different products is being provided to the same entity. As of March 31, 2023 and 2022, we had over 3,000 and 2,880 active clients, respectively. We define a unique client as a distinct entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution or a subsidiary, division or business unit of a company that purchases one or more of our products or services. We count as two separate unique clients when two separate subsidiaries, divisions or business units of an entity purchase our products or services. As of March 31, 2023 and 2022, we had over 1,500 and 1,470 unique clients, respectively. The increases in both our active and unique client counts have been almost exclusively from new unique clients and not from sales of new products and services to existing unique clients. However, as noted previously, we intend to focus future growth on both new and existing clients. We believe that the growth in our number of clients is an indication of the increased adoption of our enterprise software products and services. Annualized recurring revenue We recognize subscription revenue on a daily basis. We define annualized recurring revenue as the amount of subscription revenue recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. This gives us an indication of the revenue that can be earned in the following 12-month period from our existing client base assuming no cancellations or price changes occur during that period. Subscription revenue excludes any non-recurring revenue, which has been insignificant to date. Our annualized recurring revenue was $408 million and $385 million as of March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We believe the sequential increase in annualized recurring revenue demonstrates a growing client base, which is an indicator of stability in future subscription revenue. Revenue retention rate A key part of our business model is the recurring nature of our revenue. As a result, it is important that we retain clients after the completion of the non-cancellable portion of the support period. We believe that our revenue retention rate provides insight into the quality of our products and services and the value that our products and services provide our clients. We define revenue retention rate as the actual subscription revenue (dollar-based) recognized in a 12-month period from clients that existed on the day prior to the start of the 12-month period divided by our annualized recurring revenue as of the day prior to the start of the 12-month period. Our revenue retention rate was 92% and 94% for the 12 months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Gross profit margin We derive revenue through the provision of our enterprise software products and services. All the costs incurred in providing these products and services are recognized as part of the cost of revenue. The cost of revenue includes all direct product line expenses, as well as the expenses incurred by our shared services organization which supports all product lines. We define gross profit as the difference between revenue and the costs incurred in providing the software products and services. Gross profit margin is the ratio of gross profit divided by revenue. Our gross profit margin was approximately 62.7% and 62.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We believe the gross profit margin provides an indication of how efficiently and effectively we are operating our business and serving our clients. 24 Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, are presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Variance 2023 2022 Amount Percent Revenue $ 105,512 $ 97,910 $ 7,602 7.8% Cost of revenue: Employee compensation and benefits 25,138 26,596 (1,458) (5.5)% Engineering consulting costs 6,677 4,722 1,955 41.4% Administrative allocations (1) 3,732 3,761 (29) (0.8)% All other costs 3,796 2,128 1,668 78.4% Total cost of revenue 39,343 37,207 2,136 5.7% Gross profit 66,169 60,703 5,466 9.0% Gross margin 62.7 % 62.0 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 34,479 31,700 2,779 8.8% General and administrative 18,227 19,951 (1,724) (8.6)% Reorganization costs 59 59 N/A Litigation costs and related recoveries, net 2,719 3,110 (391) (12.6)% Total operating expenses 55,484 54,761 723 1.3% Operating income 10,685 5,942 4,743 79.8% Non-operating income and (expenses): Interest expense (1,339) (808) (531) 65.7% Other income, net 528 209 319 152.6% Income before income taxes 9,874 5,343 4,531 84.8% Income taxes (4,235) (2,256) (1,979) 87.7% Net income $ 5,639 $ 3,087 $ 2,552 82.7% (1)Includes the portion of costs for IT, security services and facilities costs that are allocated to cost of revenue. In our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the total of such costs is allocated between cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, based primarily on relative headcount, except for facilities which is based on occupancy. Revenue. Revenue increased from $97.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $105.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $7.6 million or 8%. The increase was driven by an 2% increase in the average number of unique clients from 1,475 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to 1,509 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. On a geographic basis, United States revenue grew from $52.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $53.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $1.1 million or 2%. Our international revenue grew from $45.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $52.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $6.5 million or 14%. Cost of revenue. Cost of revenue increased from $37.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $39.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $2.1 million or 6%. The key drivers related to the cost of revenue increase were a $2.0 million increase in engineering consulting costs and a $1.6 million increase in administrative allocations and all other costs. These cost increases were offset by a reduction in employee compensation costs as employee bonuses decreased $0.9 million and paid time off declined $0.5 million. As discussed in Note 8 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, following post-trial motions, the District Court entered a permanent injunction prohibiting us from using certain 25 processes, including processes adjudicated as infringing at trial, that we ceased using no later than July 2014, which we subsequently appealed to the Court of Appeals. In August 2019, the Court of Appeals affirmed the permanent injunction issued by the District Court, while also correcting certain legal errors that narrowed the scope of the injunction. As a result of the injunction, we have incurred and expect to incur additional expenses in the range of 1% to 2% of revenue for additional labor costs because, as drafted, the injunction contains language that could be read to cover some current support practices (Process 2.0) that are being litigated in the Rimini II lawsuit and that have not been found to be infringing. Gross profit. Gross profit increased slightly from $60.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $66.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $5.5 million or 9%. Gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 62.0% compared to 62.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the total cost of revenue increased by 6% compared to an increase in revenue of 8% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. As a result, our gross profit margin improved by 70 basis points period over period. Sales and marketing expenses. As a percentage of our revenue, sales and marketing expenses were 33% and 32% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. In dollar terms, sales and marketing expenses increased from $31.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $34.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $2.8 million or 9%. This increase was primarily due to (i) an increase in employee compensation and benefits of $1.4 million, (ii) an increase in advertising and marketing costs of $1.3 million, (iii) an increase in travel and entertainment costs of $0.5 million and (iv) an increase in contract labor of $0.3 million. These increases were offset, in part, by (v) a decrease in administrative allocations and all other costs of $0.5 million and (vi) a decrease in recruitment costs of $0.2 million. We will continue to accelerate our future revenue growth by investing in more resources. The $1.4 million increase in sales and marketing expense attributable to employee compensation and benefits for the three months ended March 31, 2023, was primarily due to an increase in salaries, wages and benefits of $0.2 million, commissions of $1.0 million and bonuses of $0.2 million. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased from $20.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $18.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decline of $1.7 million or 9%. This decline was primarily due to a decrease of costs associated in salaries, wages and benefits of $1.9 million as bonuses decreased $1.3 million and stock based compensation decreased $0.6 million. These decreases were offset by a slight increase in taxes and other costs of $0.2 million. Looking forward on a quarter-over-quarter basis, we are monitoring the demand for our services in light of any potential future lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the current global economic conditions and will adjust our expenditures accordingly. However, we expect to incur higher expenses associated with supporting the growth of our business, both in terms of size and geographical diversity, and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with no longer being classified as an emerging growth company or smaller reporting company for purposes of SEC reporting. Our company costs that are expected to increase in the future include costs relating to additional information systems costs, costs for additional personnel in our accounting, human resources, IT and legal functions, SEC and Nasdaq fees, and incremental professional, legal, audit and insurance costs. As a result, not taking into account temporary reductions in certain expenses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect our general and administrative expenses related to public company costs will continue to increase in future periods. Litigation costs, net of related insurance recoveries. Litigation costs, net of related insurance recoveries, consist of the following (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change Professional fees and other costs of litigation $ 2,719 $ 3,499 $ (780) Insurance costs and recoveries, net (389) 389 Litigation costs and related recoveries, net $ 2,719 $ 3,110 $ (391) Professional fees and other costs associated with litigation decreased from $3.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $0.8 million. This decrease was primarily due to the timing of trial costs. 26 Insurance costs and related recoveries, net increased from a net benefit of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to no activity for the three months ended March 31, 2023. We are self-insured for any costs related to any current or future intellectual property litigation. We currently believe our cash on hand, accounts receivable and contractually committed backlog provides us with sufficient liquidity to cover our ongoing attorneys fees and related costs, such as travel, hotels and consultants, associated with ongoing litigation, including Rimini II. Interest expense. Interest expense increased from $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $0.5 million. Interest expense increased primarily due to rising interest rates on our five-year Credit Facility. These rising interest rates were offset, in part, by a reduction of interest costs of $0.2 million related to payments associated with our interest rate swap, which was entered into on May 18, 2022. Other income (expenses), net. Other income (expenses), net is primarily comprised of interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses, and other non-operating income and expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net other income of approximately $0.5 million was comprised of gains from cash equivalents and investments of $0.9 million which were offset, in part, by foreign exchange losses of approximately $0.4 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net other income of approximately $0.2 million was comprised primarily of foreign exchange gains of approximately $0.4 million. Income tax expense. We had income tax expense of $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to an income tax expense of $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the primary reason for the increase in income tax expense was due to an increase of income before taxes of $4.5 million in the current year period compared to the prior year period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of March 31, 2023, we had a working capital deficit of $67.8 million and an accumulated deficit of $222.6 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded net income of $5.6 million. As of March 31, 2023, we had available cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $116.6 million and short-term investments of $18.8 million. Effective July 20, 2021, we received $89.3 million of net proceeds from our Credit Facility, which previously bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.50%. On February 22, 2023, we amended our Credit Facility to implement certain changes in the reference rate from LIBOR to SOFR. As of February 28, 2023, we have a choice of interest rates between (a) Adjusted Term SOFR and (b) Base Rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin remains the same as the existing Credit Agreement and is based on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and whether we elect an Adjusted Term SOFR (ranging from 1.75 to 2.50%) or a Base Rate (ranging from 0.75 to 1.50%). Annual minimum principal payments over the five year term for the Credit Facility are 5%, 5%, 7.5%, 7.5%, and 10%, respectively, with the remaining balance due at the end of the term. Please refer to Note 5 to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for information regarding our Credit Facility. A key component of our business model requires that substantially all clients prepay us annually for the services we will provide over the following year or longer. As a result, we typically collect cash from our clients in advance of when the related service costs are incurred, which resulted in deferred revenue of $257.3 million that is included in current liabilities as of March 31, 2023. Therefore, we believe that working capital deficit is not as meaningful in evaluating our liquidity since the historical costs of fulfilling our commitments to provide services to clients are currently limited to approximately 37% of the related deferred revenue based on our gross profit percentage of 63% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the next year, assuming that our operations are not significantly impacted by any lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, rising inflation, interest rate increases or other global economic uncertainties, we believe that cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $116.6 million as of March 31, 2023, plus future cash flows from operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs including working capital requirements, planned capital expenditures and our contractual obligations. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including any lingering impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, client growth, number of employees, expansion of sales and marketing activities, and the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings. We may also enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies, or intellectual property rights in the future. We may choose to seek additional debt or equity financing to 27 support these long-term capital requirements. Alternatively, we may also consider reducing amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility to minimize our exposure to rising interest rates. If interest rates continue to increase as expected and adverse economic changes occur, we may not be able to access credit on terms favorable to us, impacting our ability to support these long-term capital requirements. In an economic downturn, we may also be unable to raise capital through debt or equity financings on terms acceptable to us or at all. Covenants in our Credit Facility could also have consequences on our operations, including restricting or delaying our ability to obtain additional financing, potentially limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions or respond to business opportunities. Additionally, in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict when macroeconomic uncertainty may arise, whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business and our liquidity requirements. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we generated cash flows from our operating activities of approximately $8.6 million, which was derived from net income of $5.6 million as well as adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash of approximately $4.5 million and offset by an unfavorable change in operating assets and liabilities of approximately $1.5 million. We believe that our operating cash flows for the year ending December 31, 2023 will be sufficient to fund the portion of our contractual obligations that is not funded with existing capital resources. Cash Flows Summary Presented below is a summary of our operating, investing and financing cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 8,643 $ 45,849 Investing activities (346) (485) Financing activities (1,101) (4,098) The effect of foreign currency translation was unfavorable by $35 thousand and $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, due to unfavorable foreign exchange impacts related to foreign cash. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we experienced a significant change in foreign currency exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened against the majority of foreign currencies where our foreign entities operate. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar reduced the reported amount of our foreign-denominated cash and cash equivalents which are translated into U.S. dollars and reported in our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months ended and as of March 31, 2022. Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities As clients typically prepay us annually for the services which we will provide over the following year or longer, we typically collect cash in advance of the date when the vast majority of the related services are provided. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash flows provided by operating activities amounted to approximately $8.6 million. The key drivers resulting in our cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023, included net income of $5.6 million and adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash totaling $4.5 million. These two items were offset, in part, by unfavorable changes in operating assets and liabilities of $1.5 million, resulting in net cash provided by operating activities of $8.6 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $2.0 million, amortization and accretion related to operating lease right of use (ROU) assets of $1.1 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.6 million and accretion, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $0.2 million and deferred income taxes of $0.5 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, net consisted of favorable changes to accounts receivable of $26.9 million and deferred contract costs of $1.4 million. The favorable change to accounts receivable was a result of collecting $121.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 which was offset by billings, net of $93.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. As a result, our days sales outstanding for accounts receivable was 96 days as of March 31, 2023. The favorable change in deferred contract costs was due to capitalizing $3.2 million of commissions and amortizing $4.6 million of deferred contract costs during the three months ended March 31, 2023. 28 Offsetting these favorable changes were unfavorable changes to accrued liabilities of $14.8 million, deferred revenue of $12.5 million, accounts payable of $2.1 million and prepaid expenses, deposits and other assets of $0.4 million. The unfavorable use of cash for accrued liabilities was due to making payments of $2.5 million related to our reorganization plan, incurring incremental professional fee payments of $4.4 million, and paying incremental compensation related primarily to bonuses and commissions of $6.6 million during the current period. Regarding the related use of cash for deferred revenue, it was due to recognizing $105.5 million in revenue for the current period, which was offset by recording billings, net of $93.0 million during the current period. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash flows provided by operating activities amounted to approximately $45.8 million. The key drivers resulting in our cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022, included net income of $3.1 million, as well as adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash totaling $5.9 million and favorable changes in operating assets and liabilities of $36.8 million. These items resulted in net cash provided by operating activities of $45.8 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $3.1 million, amortization and accretion related to operating lease ROU assets of $1.4 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $0.6 million and accretion and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $0.2 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, net consisted of favorable changes to accounts receivable of $45.0 million. The favorable change to accounts receivable was a result of collecting $143.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to billings, net of $97.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. As a result, our days sales outstanding for accounts receivable was 91 days as of March 31, 2022. The favorable cash sources noted above were offset by unfavorable uses of cash related to accrued liabilities of $2.8 million, accounts payable of $2.3 million, deferred contract costs of $2.3 million, prepaid expenses, deposits and other assets of $0.5 million and deferred revenue of $0.3 million. The unfavorable use of cash related to accrued liabilities was primarily due to making incremental payments for accrued sales and other taxes of $3.1 million. The unfavorable use of cash of $2.3 million related to accounts payable was due to a decrease in the number of payment days by 36%. Deferred contract costs were unfavorable as we capitalized $6.5 million of commissions and amortized $4.2 million of deferred contract costs during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by investment purchases and capital expenditures for leasehold improvements and computer equipment. Cash used in investing activities totaled $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities of $0.3 million consisted of investment purchases of $7.7 million, which were offset by proceeds from sales of investments of $8.4 million, as well as capital expenditures of $1.0 million. The capital expenditures consisted of $0.8 million primarily for new computer equipment and capitalized development costs in our U.S. entity and $0.2 million for computer equipment at our foreign locations, primarily in India of $0.1 million and in Brazil of $0.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, capital expenditures of $0.5 million consisted of $0.2 million, primarily for new computer equipment in our U.S. facilities and $0.3 million for computer equipment at our foreign locations, primarily in India. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash utilized in financing activities of $1.1 million was attributable to principal payments related to the Credit Facility of $1.1 million and capital lease payments of $47 thousand. These cash uses were offset by proceeds of $0.1 million received from stock option exercises. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash utilized in financing activities of $4.1 million was attributable to payments to repurchase shares of Common Stock totaling $3.2 million, principal payment related to the Credit Facility of $1.1 million, and capital lease payments of $0.1 million. These cash uses were offset by proceeds of $0.4 million received from stock option exercises. 29 Foreign Subsidiaries Our foreign subsidiaries and branches are dependent on our U.S.-based parent for continued funding. We currently do not intend to repatriate any amounts that have been invested overseas back to the U.S.-based parent. However, we may still be liable for withholding taxes, state taxes, or other income taxes that might be incurred upon the repatriation of foreign earnings. We have not made any provision for additional income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. As of March 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $70.4 million held by our foreign subsidiaries. Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the reported revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These items are monitored and analyzed for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Changes in estimates are reflected in reported results for the period in which they become known. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2022, included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2022 Form 10-K, and we discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7 of our 2022 Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the FASB or other standard setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. For additional information on recently issued accounting standards and our plans for adoption of those standards, please refer to the section titled Recent Accounting Pronouncements under Note 2 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Recently Issued Accounting Standards The Company believes that no recently issued accounting standards will have a material impact on its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, or apply to its operations.