ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report to we, us or the Company refer to GP Investments Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to holders of our insider shares. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2016 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 28, 2015 as a Cayman Islands exempted company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, the sale of warrants in a private placement that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our shares, debt or a combination of these as the consideration to be paid in our initial business combination. Recent Events Terminated Merger Agreement On April 19, 2016, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended on July 28, 2016, the Merger Agreement), by and among the Company, Lets Go Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, WKI, and, solely in its capacity as the initial Holder Representative thereunder, WKI Group, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company agreed to acquire all of the outstanding capital stock of WKI, the parent company of World Kitchen, LLC, a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of houseware products. On November 11, 2016, the parties terminated the Merger Agreement, effective November 11, 2016. Rimini Merger Agreement On May 16, 2017, the Company, Lets Go, Rimini Street and the Rimini Holder Representative (as defined in the Rimini Merger Agreement) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto on June 30, 2017 (the Rimini Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the Rimini Merger Agreement, among other things and in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the Rimini Merger Agreement, and following the domestication of the Company to Delaware, Lets Go will merge with and into Rimini Street, with Rimini Street surviving and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the first merger). The surviving corporation of the first merger will then merge with and into the Company, with the Company surviving the merger (the second merger and, together with the first merger, the Mergers). The Company will be renamed Rimini Street, Inc. immediately after consummation of the second merger (referred to, both upon the domestication of the Company to Delaware and subsequent to such change of name, as RMNI). Pursuant to the Rimini Merger Agreement, the aggregate purchase price is $775,000,000, as adjusted in accordance with the terms of the Rimini Merger Agreement (the Merger Consideration). At the closing of the business combination, the Company will pay the Merger Consideration in newly issued shares of RMNI common stock based on a per share issue price of $10.00 per share. In accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the Rimini Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the first merger (the first effective time), each issued and outstanding share of Rimini Streets Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, Series A Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis, Series B Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis and Series C Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis (other than, in each case, such shares, if any, (i) held in the treasury of Rimini Street, which treasury shares shall be canceled as part of the Mergers and (ii) shares that are held by stockholders who have perfected and not withdrawn a demand for appraisal rights) will automatically be cancelled and converted into and become the right to receive the applicable portion of the Merger Consideration in accordance with the Rimini Merger Agreement. 15 Each option to purchase shares of Rimini Streets common stock granted under an incentive plan that is outstanding at the first effective time will be converted into an option relating to shares of RMNI upon the same terms and conditions as are in effect with respect to such option immediately prior to the first effective time (except that the number of shares of RMNI subject to each RMNI option, and the exercise price thereof, shall be adjusted as set forth in the merger agreement to provide the holder thereof with the same economic value as the original option relating to shares of Rimini Streets common stock). Rimini Street will take commercially reasonable actions so that any vested option held by a former employee or former service provider to Rimini Street is exercised or cancelled prior to the first effective time and, to the extent not exercised or cancelled, such option will be converted into the right to receive a cash payment equal to the product of (a) the excess of $10 over the per share exercise price and (b) the number of shares of the Rimini Streets common stock subject to the vested portion of such option. The Company has entered into a warrant consent and conversion agreement, dated May 16, 2017, with Rimini Street and CB Agent Services LLC (the Origination Agent) pursuant to which each Origination Agent warrant will be converted into a warrant relating to shares of RMNI. All other warrants to purchase shares of Rimini Streets capital stock, which have an exercise price less than the value of Merger Consideration per fully diluted share, will be converted into shares of the applicable class of Rimini Street capital stock immediately prior to the first merger, in each case pursuant to a conversion agreement to be agreed with the holders of such warrants and the parties to the Rimini Merger Agreement. In accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the Rimini Merger Agreement and subject to certain adjustments set forth therein, the aggregate purchase price for the business combination and related transactions is $775 million, which amount will be (i) reduced by, among other things set forth in the Rimini Merger Agreement, the amount of the indebtedness of Rimini Street existing on the Closing Date (as defined in the Rimini Merger Agreement), and (ii) increased by, among other things set forth in the Rimini Merger Agreement, the cash and cash equivalents held by or on behalf of Rimini Street existing on the Closing Date (as adjusted in accordance with the terms of the Rimini Merger Agreement) and (iii) reduced by the unpaid transaction fees and expenses associated with the Business Combination incurred by Rimini Street and its subsidiaries. The Merger Consideration is also subject to an indemnification escrow of 5,500,000 RMNI shares of common stock for a period of one year following the consummation of the Business Combination. These escrow shares will be deducted from the RMNI shares issuable as Merger Consideration to certain Rimini Street stockholders, to secure any indemnification claims by the Company under the Rimini Merger Agreement. Any RMNI shares remaining in the indemnification escrow after twelve months following the consummation of the Business Combination (subject to any outstanding claims) will be distributed to those Rimini Street stockholders from whom the shares were withheld. The consummation of the Business Combination is subject to, among other things, a closing condition requiring a minimum of $50,000,000 of available cash, which is expected to be funded from cash available in the Companys Trust Account (after satisfying any shareholder redemptions, but including certain deferred underwriting commissions and other fees) and, as needed, backstop equity financing from the Sponsor of up to $35,000,000 and other potential third party equity financing (the GPIA available cash). Assuming such closing condition is satisfied (and the satisfaction or waiver of the other closing conditions described below), the Company intends to use the GPIA available cash to fund unpaid transaction expenses incurred in connection with the Business Combination and the other transactions contemplated by the Rimini Merger Agreement, to pay down certain of Rimini Streets indebtedness and to deposit any remaining GPIA available cash for the benefit of the combined companys balance sheet. On June 30, 2017, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the SEC containing a preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus relating to the Merger Agreement and the shareholder approvals required to be sought from the shareholders of the Company and Rimini Street. Following effectiveness of such registration statement, the Company will mail to its shareholders the joint proxy statement/prospectus forming part of such registration statement. Extension Amendment On May 23, 2017, the Company held an extraordinary general meeting of its shareholders whereby the shareholders approved an amendment to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association to extend the date by which the Company must consummate a Business Combination from May 26, 2017 to November 27, 2017 (Extension Amendment). The number of ordinary shares redeemed in connection with the Extension Amendment was 1,552,724. The Company distributed $15,608,196, or approximately, $10.05 per share, to redeeming shareholders. As of May 23, 2017, the balance in the Companys Trust Account, after deduction of the amount required to redeem the ordinary shares, was $157,779,604. Results of Operations Since the completion of our Initial Public Offering, we have not generated any operating revenues and will not generate such revenues until after the completion of our business combination. All activity from inception to June 30, 2017 relates to our formation, our Initial Public Offering and private placement and the identification and evaluation of prospective candidates for a business combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and securities held, which we expect to be insignificant in view of the low yields on short-term government securities. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. 16 For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, we had a net loss of $25,143 and $29,414, respectively, mainly consisting of operating costs and transaction expenses relating to the proposed business combination with Rimini Street of $304,223 and $483,609, respectively, offset by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $251,336 and $451,511, respectively, and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $27,744 and $2,684, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, we had a net loss of $747,743 and $1,550,137, respectively, mainly consisting of operating costs and transaction expenses relating to the terminated business combination with WKI of $821,564 and $1,888,476, respectively, offset by interest income of $177,112 and $338,339, respectively, and an unrealized loss on marketable securities of $103,291 and $0, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources On May 26, 2015, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 17,250,000 Units, which includes the exercise by the underwriters of their entire over-allotment option in the amount of 2,250,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $172,500,000 before underwriting discounts and expenses. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of an aggregate of 6,062,500 Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant in a private placement to GPIC, Ltd, a Bermuda company, generating gross proceeds of $6,062,500. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one ordinary share at $11.50 per share. We received net proceeds from our Initial Public Offering and sale of the Private Placement Warrants of $173,639,410, net of $4,312,500 cash paid for underwriting fees and $610,590 cash paid for offering costs. In addition, up to $6,037,500 of underwriting fees were deferred until the closing of a business combination. Upon the closing of our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants, $172,500,000 was placed into the Trust Account, while the remaining funds were placed in an account outside of the Trust Account for working capital purposes. As of June 30, 2017, we had cash and marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $157,897,989 (including approximately $1,006,000 of interest income which is available to pay our income tax obligations) consisting of cash and U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be available to us to pay taxes and up to $100,000 of our dissolution expenses. Through June 30, 2017, we did not withdraw any funds from the interest earned on the Trust Account. Other than deferred underwriting fees payable in the event of a business combination, no amounts are payable to the underwriters of our Initial Public Offering. As of June 30, 2017, we had cash of $1,551 held outside the Trust Account, which is available for use by us to cover the costs associated with identifying a target business and negotiating a business combination and other general corporate uses. In addition, as of June 30, 2017, we had accounts payable and accrued expenses of $125,000, primarily representing amounts owed to certain service providers and advisors who have advised us on matters related to the terminated business combination with WKI and the proposed business combination with Rimini Street. We have entered into fee arrangements with certain service providers, advisors and the Sponsor pursuant to which certain fees incurred by us in connection with the terminated business combination with WKI and the proposed business combination with Rimini Street will be deferred and become payable only if we consummate an initial business combination. If an initial business combination does not occur, we will not be required to pay these contingent fees. As of June 30, 2017, the amount of these contingent fees was approximately $3,993,000. To the extent a potential initial business combination is consummated, we anticipate incurring a significant amount of additional costs. There can be no assurances that we will complete any initial business combination. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, cash used in operating activities amounted to $444,950, mainly resulting from a net loss of $29,414, interest earned on the Trust Account of $451,511, and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $2,684. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $38,659 of cash for operating activities. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, cash used in operating activities amounted to $1,223,172, mainly resulting from a net loss of $1,550,137 and interest earned on the Trust Account of $338,339. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $665,304 of cash for operating activities. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account (less amounts used to pay taxes and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination and pay taxes to the extent the interest earned on the Trust Account is insufficient to pay our taxes. 17 Based upon (i) amounts held outside the Trust Account, (ii) interest earned on the Trust Account available to be released to the Company for the payment of income tax obligations and (iii) loans that the Sponsor has committed to provide to the Company, in each case as described herein, we believe we have sufficient cash to operate our business through the earlier of a consummation of a Business Combination or the end of the Combination Period, the date that the Company will be required to cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, if a Business Combination is not consummated. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating an initial Business Combination are less than the actual amounts necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-balance sheet financing arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or enter into any non-financial agreements involving assets. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an administrative agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor a total of $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial support and administrative services, commencing on the date our securities are first listed on NASDAQ. Upon the earlier of the completion of the initial business combination or the Companys liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. The Company has not identified any critical accounting policies.