Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: our progress against short-term and long-term goals; our future financial performance; our anticipated growth, growth strategies and our ability to effectively manage that growth and effect these strategies; our success in our target markets and key verticals; anticipated trends, developments and challenges in our business and in the markets in which we operate, as well as general macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical conflicts; our ability to scale to our desired goals, particularly the implementation of new processes and systems and on-boarding new workers; the impact of competition in our industry and innovation by our competitors; our ability to anticipate and adapt to future changes in our industry; our ability to predict subscriptions revenues, formulate accurate financial projections, manage debt expense, and make strategic business decisions based on our analysis of market trends; our ability to anticipate market needs and develop new and enhanced products and solutions and subscriptions to meet those needs, and our ability to successfully monetize them; our ability to successfully incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning powered features into our solutions; maintaining and expanding our customer base; maintaining, expanding and responding to changes in our relationships with other companies; maintaining and expanding our distribution channels, including our network of sales agents and resellers, our partners, and global service providers; our ability to sell, market, and support our solutions and services, domestically and internationally, and continue to sell and expand our business with enterprise customers and within our key vertical markets; our ability to realize increased purchasing leverage and economies of scale as we expand; the impact of seasonality on our business; the impact of any failure of our solutions or solution innovations, including our innovations relating to AI; our dependency on third-party vendors of hardware, software and services that we offer and sell to our customers and our ability to effectively offer customers an alternate solution; the potential effect on our business of litigation to which we may become a party; our liquidity and working capital requirements; the impact of changes in the regulatory environment including with respect to AI; our ability to protect our intellectual property and rely on open source licenses; our expectations regarding the growth and reliability of public cloud and internet infrastructure; the timing of acquisitions of, or making and exiting investments in, other entities, businesses or technologies; our ability to successfully and timely execute on, integrate, and realize the benefits of any acquisition, investment, strategic partnership, or other strategic transaction we may make or undertake; 3 Table of Contents our capital expenditure projections; our capital allocation plans, including expected allocations of cash and timing for any share repurchases, debt repayments, and other investments; our Credit Agreement, including both the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility (each as defined below); our ability to comply with the operational and financial covenants in our debt agreements; the estimates and estimate methodologies used in preparing our consolidated financial statements; the political environment and stability in the regions in which we or our subcontractors operate; the impact of economic downturns on us and our customers; our ability to protect our systems and our customer information from fraud, social engineering breaches, and cyber-attack; our ability to prevent the use of fraudulent payment methods for our solutions; our ability to retain key employees and to attract qualified personnel; our ability to successfully implement or otherwise achieve our anticipated cost reductions; and the impact of foreign currencies on our non-U.S. business as we expand our business internationally. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be significantly different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be significantly different from what we expect. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ significantly from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Over the past 25 years, RingCentral has transformed business communications, leading the shift from on-premises legacy communications to the cloud. Today, the company has an AI-powered multi-product portfolio including Unified Communications as a Service (UCaaS), Contact Center as a Service (CCaaS), Video & Events, and RingSense AI solutions. RingCentrals core tenets include: a) Trust: We provide communications that businesses can trust with reliability, security, and privacy; b) Innovation: We execute through focused and strategic innovation, setting the bar in the industry for many market firsts; c) Partnerships: We have a diverse set of strategic partners, global service providers, channel partners, and third-party developers. RingCentral is designed for intelligent, connected, and effortless businesses communications, making employee and customer experiences more productive and efficient. Our multi-product portfolio includes: RingEX. RingEX (formerly RingCentral MVP) is our AI-powered Unified Communications as a Service (UCaaS) platform available in 46 countries and phone number availability in 100 countries, enabling seamless collaboration across voice, messaging, and video: Cloud phone system with IVR, advanced call queues, call management, and deep telephony integrations, where we historically have strived for 99.999% availability. Business messaging, including enhanced SMS, MMS, and team chat for streamlined communication. Cloud fax solutions for secure, integrated document receiving and transmission on mobile or desktop. 4 Table of Contents AI-enhanced video meetings, featuring meeting summaries, and smart collaboration tools, with conference room solutions and interoperability, integrating with third-party meetings. Comprehensive business analytics and cloud migration tools. APIs and integrations, allowing businesses to customize workflows and connect with existing applications. RingCentral Contact Center. RingCentral Contact Center is a collaborative contact center solution that delivers AI-powered omni-channel and workforce engagement solutions integrated with RingEX. RingCentral Contact Center brings together the powerful integration of Contact Center as a Service (CCaaS) which leverages technology from NICE Ltd., along with RingEX, enabling an easy collaboration while delivering seamless omnichannel experiences across more than 30 digital and voice channels. RingCX is our native next-generation CCaaS solution, delivering an AI-powered customer engagement solution with deep CRM integrations and a broad ecosystem of integrated partner solutions, including the following capabilities: Omnichannel support across voice, chat, email, and messaging for a seamless customer experience. Real time and historical analytics for supervisors Outbound engagement, including predictive dialing, automated campaigns, and proactive customer outreach to drive conversions and engagement. Bring-Your-Own IVA (Intelligent Virtual Assistant) for custom AI-powered self-service AI agents tailored to business needs. Deep CRM integrations, including Salesforce, Zendesk, ServiceNow, HubSpot, Microsoft Dynamics, and others, ensuring customer interactions are context-aware and data-driven. Seamless integration with RingEX, enabling a fully connected UCaaS and CCaaS powered by RingCentral global network. RingCentral Artificial Intelligence Solutions. RingCentral provides multiple AI solutions designed to improve employee productivity, elevate customer experience and automate routine tasks: AI Solutions for RingEx. AI Receptionist is an AI phone agent that uses generative AI to automatically answer customer questions and transfer callers to the right place, much like traditional full-time receptionists do. AI Assistant automates conversation recaps, captures notes and summarizes actions, thus freeing employees from taking notes. RingSense, transforms conversations into actionable conversational intelligence, helping teams improve productivity with AI-driven insights including among others: automated meeting and call summaries that capture key points and action items; sentiment and trend analysis; performance insights for managers and teams, providing benchmarking, coaching opportunities, and operational movements; and AI-powered sales intelligence, analyzing customer interactions to optimize engagement and improve sales efficiency. AI Solutions for RingCX. AI-based Quality Management (QM) powered by RingSenseAI for smarter coaching and operational insights. AI Agent Assist offers real-time suggestions and contextual responses to improve service efficiency.(This product is currently in beta). AI Supervisor Assist enables real-time monitoring, coaching, and sentiment analysis to enhance team performance. (This product is currently in beta). 5 Table of Contents RingCentral for Microsoft Teams. RingCentral seamlessly embeds into Microsoft Teams, providing reliable, global enterprise-grade phone, SMS, fax, and customer experience solutionswithout requiring a Teams Phone license: Embedded telephony, fax, and SMS, delivering a fully featured business phone system inside Teams. RingSense conversation intelligence, providing AI-driven insights. A personal AI assistant, automating notes, transcriptions, and follow-ups. AI writer for SMS, automating composing texts. RingCentral Events. RingCentral Events, built on the Hopin Events and Session acquisition, enables businesses to host virtual, hybrid, and in-person events with AI-powered engagement tools: Multi-session event hosting, from small gatherings to large-scale conferences. AI-driven attendee engagement, including automated networking and personalized recommendations to foster community Deep integrations with CRM and marketing automation Our flagship cloud-based offerings, RingEX and RingCX, are subscription based and made available at different rates varying by the specific functionalities, services, and number of users. We primarily generate revenues from the sale of subscriptions to our offerings. Our subscription plans have monthly, annual, or multi-year contractual terms. We believe that this flexibility in contract duration is important to meet the different needs of our customers. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, subscriptions revenues accounted for over 90% of our total revenues. The remainder of our revenues are primarily comprised of product revenues from the sale of pre-configured phones and professional services. We do not develop or manufacture physical phones and only offer them as a convenience to our customers. We rely on third-party providers to develop and manufacture these devices and fulfillment partners to successfully serve our customers. We use our direct inside sales force and indirect sales channels to market our product and our subscription offerings. Our indirect sales channels who sell our solutions consist of: Regional and global network of resellers and distributors; Global Service Providers and strategic partners who market and sell our RingEX, RingCX or other solutions, including co-branded solutions. Our principal executive offices are located in Belmont, California. Our principal address is 20 Davis Drive, Belmont, California 94002, and our primary website address is www.ringcentral.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website, does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and inclusion of our website address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is an inactive textual reference only. RingCentral and other of our trademarks appearing in this report are our property. This report also contains trade names and trademarks of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. Segment Reporting Our organizational structure is a single reportable segment. A discussion of the results of our operations is included in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Part II, Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Our Customers We have a diverse and growing customer base across a wide range of industries, including financial services, education, healthcare, legal services, real estate, retail, technology, insurance, construction, hospitality, and state and local government, among others. We seek to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers. We do not have significant customer concentration and no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022. We believe that we will not have significant customer concentration in the future. 6 Table of Contents RingCentral powers customer engagement and intelligent communication across industries: Retail and e-commerce businesses use AI-assisted agents to reduce wait times, automate order inquiries, and personalize customer interactions. Financial services firms ensure compliance while enhancing client engagement with voice and digital experiences, personalized coaching, and intelligent risk and compliance monitoring. Healthcare providers streamline patient communication and care coordination with scheduling, automated documentation, and HIPAA-compliant messaging. Customer service teams improve response times with real-time agent assistance, self-service tools, and personalized coaching. Sales and marketing teams accelerate deals with conversation insights, automated follow-ups, and smarter customer engagement strategies. We sell our solutions to enterprise customers, and small and medium-sized businesses. We define a customer as a party that purchases or subscribes to our products and services directly or through our indirect sales channel, which includes resellers and distributors, strategic partners and global service providers. We continue to look to expand our offerings in new geographies and believe that there are additional growth opportunities in international markets. Marketing, Sales and Support We use a variety of marketing, sales, and support activities to generate and cultivate ongoing customer demand for our subscriptions, acquire new customers, and engage with our existing customers. We sell globally through both direct and indirect channels, which includes resellers and distributors, strategic partners and global service providers. We provide onboarding implementation services to help our customers set up and configure their newly purchased communications system, as well as ongoing self-service, phone support, online chat support, and training. We also closely track and monitor customer acquisition costs to assess how we are deploying our marketing, sales, and customer support spending. Marketing. Our marketing efforts include search engine marketing, search engine optimization, affiliates, list buys, shared leads, content leads, appointment setting, radio advertising, online display advertising, sports sponsorships, billboard advertising, tradeshows and events, and other forms of demand generation. Direct Sales. We primarily sell our solutions and subscriptions through direct inbound and outbound sales efforts. We have direct sales representatives located in the U.S. and internationally. Indirect Sales. Our indirect sales channel consists of global and regional networks of resellers and distributors, strategic partners and global and regional service providers. Our indirect sales channels help broaden the adoption of our solutions and enable us to leverage the channel to sell our services as well as access their customer bases. Customer Support and Services. While our intuitive and easy-to-use user interface serves to reduce our customers need for support and services, we provide online chat and phone customer support, as well as post-sale implementation support, as an option to help customers configure and use our solution. Research and Development We believe that continued investment in research and development is critical to expanding our leadership position within the cloud-based business communications, collaboration, and contact center solutions market and is a key element of our culture. We devote the majority of our research and development resources to software development. Our engineering team has relevant industry experience in various disciplines related to our platform, such as voice, video, events, text, team messaging and collaboration, mobile application development, IP networking and infrastructure, contact center, digital customer engagement, user experience, security, and robust multi-tenant cloud-based system architecture. Our development methodology, in combination with our software-as-a-service (SaaS) delivery model, allows us to provide new and enhanced capabilities on a regular basis. Based on feedback from our customers and prospects and our review of the broader business communications and SaaS markets, we continuously develop new functionality while maintaining and enhancing our existing solutions. We typically have multiple releases per year, where we constantly improve our solutions and introduce new capabilities and features to make our customers workforce more productive and to build out the feature set required by larger and global enterprises. 7 Table of Contents As part of our strategy to expand our technological capabilities, we engage in strategic transactions from time to time. Such strategic acquisitions enable us to complement our technology and skill sets and expand our solution reach. Technology and Operations Our platforms are hosted both in private and public clouds. Our private clouds are built on a highly scalable and flexible infrastructure comprised of commercially available hardware and software components. Our public clouds are built on a scalable platform that allows us to leverage shared components and services, enabling us to rapidly develop new features and functionalities on our existing platform without re-architecting the infrastructure to achieve geographical redundancy and high availability. We believe that both hardware and software components of our platform can be replaced, upgraded or added with minimal or no interruption in service. The system is designed to be redundant. We also utilize Amazons and Google's public cloud services, and for the foreseeable future, we expect to increase our utilization of such services. Our private cloud is served from multiple data centers and third-party co-location facilities located in several cities in the United States and throughout the world. Our data centers are designed to host mission-critical computer and communications systems with redundant, fault-tolerant subsystems, and compartmentalized security zones. We maintain a security program designed to ensure the security and integrity of customer data, protect against security threats or data breaches, and prevent unauthorized access to our customers data. We limit access to on-demand servers and networks at our production and remote backup facilities. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trade secret laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections, to protect our proprietary technology. We also rely on a number of registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. In addition, we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by implementing a policy that requires our employees and independent contractors involved in the development of intellectual property on our behalf to enter into agreements acknowledging that all works or other intellectual property generated or conceived by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any rights, including intellectual property rights, that they may claim or otherwise have in those works or property, to the extent allowable under applicable law. Our worldwide intellectual property portfolio includes 478 issued patents, which expire between 2025 and 2042, and 99 patent applications, pending examination in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, all of which are related to U.S. applications. In general, our patents and patent applications apply to certain aspects of our SaaS and mobile applications and underlying communications infrastructure. We are also a party to various license agreements with third parties that typically grant us the right to use certain third-party technology in conjunction with our solutions and subscriptions. In the future, we may prune our patent portfolio by not continuing to renew some of our patents in some jurisdictions or may decide to divest some of our patents. Competition The market for business communications and collaboration solutions is very large, rapidly evolving, complex, fragmented and defined by changing technology, and customer needs. We expect competition to continue to increase in the future. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: product features and capabilities; system reliability, availability, and performance; speed and ease of activation, setup, and configuration; ownership and control of the underlying technology; open platform; generative AI; incumbency; integration with mobile devices; brand awareness and recognition; simplicity of the pricing model; and 8 Table of Contents total cost of ownership. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the basis of the factors listed above. We face competition from a broad range of providers of business communications and collaboration solutions. Some of these competitors include: traditional on-premise, hardware business communications providers such as Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise, Avaya LLC, Cisco Systems, Inc., Mitel Networks Corporation, NEC Corporation, and Siemens Enterprise Networks, LLC, any of which may now or in the future also host their solutions through the cloud; software providers such as Microsoft Corporation, Zoom Communications, Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc. that generally license and/or host their software solutions, and their resellers including major global service providers and cable companies; established business communications providers that resell on-premise hardware, software, and hosted solutions, such as Comcast, TMU, Orange, and others, all of whom currently have significantly greater resources than us and now or in the future also may develop and/or host their own or other solutions through the cloud; other cloud companies such as 8x8, Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., DialPad, Inc., GoTo, Microsoft Corporation, Nextiva, Inc., Twilio Inc., Vonage Holdings Corp. (acquired by Ericsson), Alianza, Inc., and Zoom Communications, Inc.; video meeting and collaboration service providers such as Amazon.com, Inc., Apple Inc., Alphabet Inc. (Google G-Suite and Meet), Meta Platforms, Inc., Microsoft Teams, Slack Technologies, Inc. (acquired by Salesforce.com, Inc.), and Zoom Communications, Inc.; other technology companies such as Alphabet Inc. (Google Voice), Meta Platforms, Inc., Oracle Corporation, and Salesforce.com, Inc., any of which might launch its own cloud-based business communication services or acquire other cloud-based business communications companies in the future; providers of communications platform as a service solutions and messaging software platforms with APIs such as Twilio Inc., Vonage Holdings Corp. (acquired by Ericsson), and Slack Technologies, Inc. (acquired by Salesforce.com, Inc.), on which customers can build diverse solutions by integrating cloud communications into business applications; contact center and customer relationship management providers such as Amazon.com, Inc., Alvaria, Inc., Avaya LLC, Five9, Inc., NICE Ltd. (including LiveVox Holdings, Inc.), Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc., Serenova, LLC (acquired by Enghouse Systems Ltd.), Talkdesk, Inc., Vonage Holdings Corp. (acquired by Ericsson), Salesforce.com, Inc., Twilio Inc., and Zoom Communications, Inc.; and digital engagement vendors such as eGain Corporation, LivePerson, Inc., among others named above that may offer similar features. Employees and Human Capital We believe that our culture and our workforce are critically important to our success. Our human capital resources objectives include identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing and integrating our existing and new employees, advisors and consultants. We continuously invest in our global workforce by seeking to create a diverse, inclusive, and safe work environment where our employees can learn, innovate, and deliver their best. We are committed to being inclusive to enable our workforce and customers to succeed. We invest in developing our talent and creating a superior employee experience. We believe that a highly engaged workforce will continue to drive RingCentrals competitive advantage as an innovative company and will also keep RingCentral as an employer of choice. We believe that our approach to talent development and innovation enables our team members to grow in their current positions and build new skills. We provide learning courses across a broad range of categories such as leadership, inclusion and diversity, and technical and compliance, among others. We have periodic employee surveys that allow employees to voice their perceptions of the Company and their work experience. We face competition for highly skilled and technical workforce with experience in our industry and locations where we maintain offices. We strive to provide competitive pay, benefits, and services to attract and retain our employees. Our equity and cash incentive plans are designed to attract, retain and reward employees, in order to increase stockholder value and to 9 Table of Contents enable the success of our Company by motivating such individuals to perform to the best of their abilities and share in the value creation process. We also provide access to a variety of flexible health and wellness programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2024, we had 4,260 full-time employees and 3,140 contractors located in over 29 countries. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 72% of our personnel were located outside of the United States. Our geographic diversification enhances our ability to retain and attract highly skilled talent, have an employee base across the globe to be closer to our customers, as well as manage our headcount costs. In certain countries in which we operate, we are subject to, and comply with, local labor law requirements, which may automatically make our employees subject to industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. For instance, some of our European employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good, and we have never experienced any work stoppages. Regulatory As a provider of communication services over the Internet, we are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the FCC. Some of these regulatory obligations include contributing to the Federal Universal Service Fund, Telecommunications Relay Service Fund, and federal programs related to phone number administration; providing access to E-911 services; protecting customer information; complying with caller ID authentication and anti-robocall measures; and porting phone numbers upon a valid customer request. We are also required to pay state and local 911 fees and contribute to state universal service funds in those states that assess interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services. In addition, we have certified a wholly owned subsidiary as a competitive local exchange carrier in thirty states and the District of Columbia, and registered as an IP-enabled Service Provider in an additional eleven states. This subsidiary, RCLEC, is subject to the same FCC regulations applicable to telecommunications companies, as well as regulation by the public utility commissions in states where the subsidiary provides services. Specific regulations vary on a state-by-state basis, but generally include the requirement for our subsidiary to register or seek certification to provide its services, to file and update tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices for our intrastate services and to comply with various reporting, record-keeping, surcharge collection, and consumer protection requirements. As we have expanded internationally, we have become subject to laws and regulations in the countries in which we offer our subscriptions. Regulatory treatment of communications services over the Internet outside the U.S. varies from country to country, and may be more onerous than imposed on our subscriptions in the U.S. In the United Kingdom, for example, our subscriptions are regulated by Ofcom, which, among other things, requires electronic communications services providers such as our company to provide all users access to both 112 (EU-mandated) and 999 (U.K.-mandated) emergency service numbers at no charge. Similarly, in Canada, our subscriptions are regulated by the CRTC, which, among other things, imposes requirements like those in the U.S. related to the provision of E-911 services, in all areas of Canada where the wireline incumbent carrier offers such 911 services. Countries across Europe have now implemented the EU Electronic Communications Code, clarifying and updating obligations on PSTN-connected voice service providers as well as imposing new requirements on number-independent services such as videoconferencing and team messaging. Additionally, the French regulatory agency, ARCEP, has made major changes to its telephone numbering plan that went into effect in January 2023, allowing for greater nomadic use of services like ours, and prohibiting the sub-assignment of phone numbers to resellers, requiring each provider to obtain numbers directly from ARCEP. Our regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on the use of our subscriptions in international locations. In the course of providing our services, we collect, store, and process many types of data, including personal data. Moreover, our customers can use our subscriptions to store contact and other personal or identifying information, and to process, transmit, receive, store, and retrieve a variety of communications and messages, including information about their own customers and other contacts. Customers are able, and may be authorized under certain circumstances, to use our subscriptions to transmit, receive, and/or store personal information. There are a number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, such as the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which extended the CCPA, and numerous other state privacy laws imposing obligations and restrictions similar to the CCPA as well as contractual obligations and industry standards, that provide for certain obligations and restrictions with respect to data privacy and security, and the collection, storage, retention, protection, use, processing, transmission, sharing, disclosure, and protection of personal information and other customer data. We expect that with the expansion of our Global RingEX solution and sales of our services into new countries, we will become subject to additional data privacy regulations in 10 Table of Contents other countries throughout the world. The scope of these obligations and restrictions is changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent among countries or conflict with other rules, and their status remains uncertain. As Internet commerce and communication technologies continue to evolve, thereby increasing online service providers and network users capacity to collect, store, retain, protect, use, process, and transmit large volumes of personal information, increasingly restrictive regulation by federal, state, or foreign agencies becomes more likely. Regulations that do not directly apply to our business, but which do apply to our customers and partners, can also impact our business. As we expand our business, addressing customer and partner requirements in new jurisdictions and new verticals often requires investment on our part to address regulations that apply to our customers. Globally, these regulations continue to be introduced and to change over time. Such regulations can impact our ability to offer services to various customer markets, and our cost to deliver our services. See the section entitled Risk Factors for more information. Available Information We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, free of charge on our website (ir.ringcentral.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We announce material information to the public about our company, our solutions and services and other matters through a variety of means, including our website (www.ringcentral.com), the investor relations section of our website (ir.ringcentral.com), press releases, filings with the SEC, and public conference calls, in order to achieve broad, non-exclusionary distribution of information to the public. We encourage investors and others to review the information we make public in these locations, as such information could be deemed to be material information. Please note that this list may be updated from time to time. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. The risks and uncertainties described in this Report are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also affect our business. See the section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs and have a material adverse effect on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Summary Risk Factors An investment in our Class A Common Stock involves a high degree of risk, and the following is a summary of key risk factors when considering an investment. This is only a summary. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained in the subheadings further below and other risks. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows in the past and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or to exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. If we are unable to develop, license, or acquire new services or applications on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to attract new customers to our subscriptions or upsell to those customers on a cost-effective basis, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We rely and may in the future rely significantly on our channel partners and global service providers to market and sell our subscriptions; our failure to effectively develop, manage, and maintain our indirect sales channels could materially and adversely affect our revenues. Increased customer turnover, or costs we incur to retain and upsell our customers, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Economic and political conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations. We face intense competition in our markets and may lack sufficient financial or other resources to compete successfully. We face significant risks in our efforts to sell and market to medium-sized and larger businesses for sales of our subscriptions and, if we do not manage these efforts effectively, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to continue to develop our brand or our reputation is harmed, our business may suffer. We depend largely on the continued services of our senior management and other highly-skilled employees, and if we are unable to hire, retain, manage and motivate our employees, we may not be able to grow effectively and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may expand through acquisitions of and investments in other companies, each of which may divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations, and harm our results of operations. Interruptions or delays in service whether caused by our third-party data center hosting facilities, other third-party providers, internal process failures, human errors, internal bugs or otherwise could impair the delivery of our subscriptions, require us to issue credits or pay penalties and harm our business. A security incident, such as a cyber-attack, information security breach, or denial of service event could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or business, impact our subscriptions, and subject us to significant liability. The AI technology and features incorporated into our solutions include new and evolving technologies that may present both legal and business risks. 12 Table of Contents We rely on third-party vendors and competitors to deliver video, contact center and SMS services to customers, and changes in these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our subscriptions are subject to regulation, and future legislative or regulatory actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability in the U.S. and internationally. We may require additional capital or need to restructure our existing debt to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges or unforeseen circumstances. If capital is not available to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Servicing our debt, including the Notes and Credit Agreement, may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business or the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Convertible Notes in cash, repurchases of the Notes as required following a fundamental change or change of control, as applicable, or to repay all of our indebtedness at maturity. Our Credit Agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. The capped call transactions may affect the value of the 2026 Convertible Notes and our Class A Common Stock and we are subject to counterparty risk. For as long as the dual class structure of our common stock as contained in our charter documents is in effect, voting control will be concentrated with a limited number of stockholders that held our stock prior to our initial public offering, including primarily our founders and their affiliates, and limiting other stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has certain rights that are preferential to the rights of our common stock, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows in the past and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception. We have historically spent and expect to continue to spend considerable amounts of time and money to develop new business communications solutions and enhanced versions of our existing business communications solutions to position us for future growth. Additionally, we have incurred substantial losses and expended significant resources upfront to market, promote and sell our solutions and expect to continue to do so in the future. We also expect to continue to invest for future growth, including for advertising, customer acquisition, technology infrastructure, storage capacity, services development, regulatory compliance, and international expansion. In addition, as a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses. In order to achieve net income in the future, we will need to do one or more of the following: increase our revenues , manage our cost structure, and/or avoid significant liabilities. Revenue growth has slowed and in the future, revenues may decline, or we may incur significant losses for a number of possible reasons, including general macroeconomic conditions, increasing competition (including competitive pricing pressures), a decrease in customer demand or the growth of the markets in which we compete, in particular the UCaaS, CCaaS and software-as-a-service (SaaS) markets, shifts in our product mix, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities, including those related to our AI-based initiatives. For example, as we prioritize our RingCX solution, we expect a near-term headwind to revenue growth but higher profitability in the future. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, service delivery, and quality problems and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed and our stock price could be volatile or decline. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or to exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have varied historically from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: 13 Table of Contents our ability to expand and retain existing customers, resellers, partners, and global service providers ("GSPs"), and expand our existing customers user base, and attract new customers; our ability to realize the benefits of our existing strategic partnerships, GSP relationships, and other strategic and GSP relationships that we may enter into in the future; our ability to introduce and effectively market and sell new solutions, including both solutions that we develop or license, and solutions we purchase for resale from third parties; the actions of our competitors, including pricing changes or the introduction of new solutions; our ability to effectively manage our growth, achieve net income profitability, and generate and grow our GAAP operating cash flow and non-GAAP free cash flow; our ability to successfully penetrate the market for larger businesses and key verticals; our ability to upsell our customers to our existing and new products and services; our ability to limit and manage down sell and churn; our dependency on third-party vendors and competitors of AI, hardware, software and services that we resell to our customers, in particular, NICE Ltd. and Zoom Communications, Inc., and our ability to effectively offer customers an alternate solution; the mix of monthly, annual and multi-year subscriptions at any given time; the timing, cost, and effectiveness of our advertising and marketing efforts; the timing, operating cost, and capital expenditures related to the operation, maintenance and expansion of our business; our ability to execute our operating plans successfully while reducing costs and optimizing operating margin; our ability to accurately forecast revenues and appropriately plan our expenses; our ability to successfully and timely execute on, integrate, and realize the benefits of any acquisition, investment, strategic partnership, or other strategic transaction we may make or undertake; service outages or actual or perceived information security breaches or incidents caused by us or the third parties upon which we rely and any related impact on our reputation; our ability to realize our deferred tax assets; costs associated with defending and resolving intellectual property infringement and other claims; changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting rules; our ability to effectively manage and repay our existing and any future debt; our ability to repurchase shares of Class A Common Stock; the retention of our senior management and other key employees, their ability to execute on our business plan and the loss of services of senior management or other key employees, whether in the past or in the future; the impact of foreign currencies on our business as we continue to expand our business internationally; and the impact of worldwide economic, political, industry, and market conditions, including the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, any potential worsening or expansion of these or other conflicts and wars, and U.S.-China relations. Any one of the factors above, or the cumulative effect of some or all of the factors referred to above, may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses is fixed in nature and is based on forecasted revenues trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we may not be able to mitigate the negative impact on net income (loss) and margins in the short term. If we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, the market price of our shares could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class-action suits. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop, license, or acquire new services or applications on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The cloud-based business communications industry is characterized by rapid development of and changes in customer requirements, frequent introductions of new and enhanced services, and continuing and rapid technological advancement. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes or the introduction of new, disruptive technologies on our business, and the market for cloud-based business communications may develop in a manner different than we expect, and our solutions could fail to achieve market acceptance. Our continued growth depends on continued use of voice, video communications, messaging and contact center solutions by businesses, as compared to email and other data-based methods. In addition, to compete successfully, we must anticipate and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards, and continue to design, develop, manufacture, and sell new and enhanced services that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. Currently, we derive a majority of our revenues from subscriptions to RingEX (formerly RingCentral MVP), and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. However, our future success may also depend on our ability to introduce and sell new services, features, and functionality, such as RingCX, RingSense and RingCentral Events that enhance or are beyond the subscriptions we currently offer, as well as to improve usability and support and increase customer satisfaction. For example, we and our peers and competitors continue to invest significantly in AI (including machine learning and large language models). There are significant risks involved in deploying AI and there can be no assurance that using AI in our platforms and products, such as our AI-powered product, RingSense, will enhance or be beneficial to our business,. Our failure to develop solutions that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to compete effectively, renew our subscriptions with existing customers, increase our subscription revenues from our existing customers, and create or increase demand for our subscriptions and may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. The introduction of new services by competitors, including those that incorporate AI and machine learning, or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could make our solutions outdated, obsolete or adversely affect our business and results of operations. Announcements of future releases and new services and technologies by our competitors or us could cause customers to defer purchases of our existing subscriptions, which also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may experience difficulties with software development, operations, design, or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new or enhanced services and applications. We have in the past experienced delays in the planned release dates of new features and upgrades and have discovered defects in new services and applications after their introduction. We cannot assure you that new features or upgrades will be released according to schedule, or that, when released, they will not contain defects or bugs. Either of these situations could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers brought against us, all of which could harm our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, the development of new or enhanced services or applications will require substantial investment, and we must continue to invest a significant amount of resources in our research and development efforts to develop these services and applications to remain competitive. We do not know whether these investments will be successful. If customers do not widely adopt any new or enhanced services and applications, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment. If we are unable to develop, license, or acquire new or enhanced services and applications on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such new or enhanced services and applications do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to attract new customers to our subscriptions or upsell to those customers on a cost-effective basis, our business will be materially and adversely affected. In order to grow our business, we must continue to attract new customers, retain existing customers, and expand the number of users in, and services provided to, our existing customer base on a cost-effective basis. Significant increases in the pricing of one or more of our advertising channels would increase our advertising costs or may cause us to choose less expensive and perhaps less effective channels to promote our services. As we add to or change the mix of our advertising and marketing strategies, we may need to expand into channels with significantly higher costs than our current programs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, a global slowdown of economic activity may disrupt our sales channels and our ability to attract new customers, which may require us to adjust our advertising and marketing programs or make further investments in these programs. We will incur advertising and marketing expenses in advance of when we anticipate recognizing any revenues generated by such expenses, and we may fail to otherwise experience an increase in revenues or brand awareness as a result of such expenditures. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, significant expenditures and investments in new advertising campaigns, and we cannot assure you that any such investments will lead to the cost-effective acquisition of additional customers. If we are unable to maintain effective advertising programs, our ability to attract new customers could be materially and adversely affected, our advertising and marketing expenses could increase substantially, and our results of operations may suffer. 15 Table of Contents Some of our potential customers learn about us through leading search engines. While we employ search engine optimization and search engine marketing strategies, our ability to maintain and increase the number of visitors directed to our website is not entirely within our control. If search engine companies modify their search algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, or if our competitors search engine optimization efforts are more successful than ours, or if search engine companies restrict or prohibit us from using their services, fewer potential customers may click through to our website. In addition, the cost of purchased listings has increased in the past and may increase in the future. A decrease in website traffic or an increase in search costs could materially and adversely affect our customer acquisition efforts and our results of operations. We rely and may in the future rely significantly on our channel partners and global service providers to market and sell our subscriptions; our failure to effectively develop, manage, and maintain our indirect sales channels could materially and adversely affect our revenues. Our future success depends on our continued ability to establish and maintain a network of channel relationships and strategic partnerships, including GSPs. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from our network of sales agents, brokers, and resellers, which we refer to collectively as channel partners. Governmental regulations and contractual restrictions with telecom carriers may also restrict the ability of our channel partners to resell our products and services in some countries. We generally do not have long-term contracts with these channel partners, and the loss of or reduction in sales through these third parties could materially reduce our revenues. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in causing our current or potential channel partners to favor their services or prevent or reduce sales of our subscriptions. We have also entered into certain agreements with our strategic partners and GSPs to sell and market certain of our solutions. However, there can be no guarantee that our strategic partners, GSPs and/or any of their respective channel partners will be successful in marketing or selling our solutions or that they will not cease marketing or selling our solutions in the future. Further, certain strategic partners have failed in the past, and may fail in the future, to meet their minimum contractual seat and/or revenue commitments, including recoupment of advance payments. We have in the past, and may in the future, renegotiate the terms of our GSP relationships and strategic partnership agreements, including converting strategic partners from exclusive to non-exclusive partners. In addition, we are in the process of adjusting our channel partner go-to-market strategy, to better enable a resale/wholesale model, which requires significant changes to our systems and processes. These system and process changes could result in longer time to implement our strategy which could have an impact on our revenue. If we fail to maintain relationships with our channel partners, GSPs and strategic partners or fail to develop new and expanded relationships in existing or new markets, or if our networks of indirect channel relationships are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our subscriptions may decrease and our operating results would suffer. In addition, we may not be successful in managing, training, and providing appropriate incentives to our existing resellers and other channel partners, GSPs and strategic partners, and they may not be able to commit adequate resources in order to successfully sell our solutions. Increased customer turnover, or costs we incur to retain and upsell our customers, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Although we have entered into long-term subscription contracts with larger customers, those customers with month to month contracts with us may terminate their subscriptions at any time without penalty or early termination charges and customers under contract may not renew. We cannot accurately predict the rate of customer terminations or average monthly subscription cancellations or failures to renew, which we refer to as turnover. Our customers with subscription agreements have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their initial subscription period, which is typically between one and three years, and a substantial portion of our large contracts are up for renewal every year. In the event that these customers do renew their subscriptions, they may choose to renew for fewer users, shorter contract lengths, or for a less expensive subscription plan or edition. We cannot predict the renewal rates or types for customers that have entered into subscription contracts with us. Customer turnover, as well as reductions in the number of users or pricing tier(s) for which a customer subscribes, each could have a significant impact on our results of operations, as does the cost we incur in our efforts to retain our customers and encourage them to renew and upgrade their subscriptions and increase their number of users. Our turnover rate could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with our services, including third-party services and products that we integrate or sell as separate items to our customers, the value proposition of our services, the pricing of our services relative to similar services of our competitors, the customer support we provide, or our ability to otherwise meet their needs and expectations. Turnover and reductions in the number of users for whom a customer subscribes may also increase due to factors 16 Table of Contents beyond our control, including the failure or unwillingness of customers to pay their monthly subscription fees due to financial constraints. In addition, the impact of global economic conditions, including concerns about heightened inflation, fluctuating interest rates, and any economic downturn, could cause financial hardship for our customers, decrease technology spending, materially and negatively impact our customers willingness to enter into or renew subscriptions with us, cause our customers to seek a decrease in the number of users or solutions for which they subscribe, or impact our ability to collect, in a timely manner, monies due from the customer. For example, to address customer hardships, we may work with customers to provide greater flexibility to manage challenges they are facing in their own businesses, but we cannot be assured that they will not reduce their number of users or terminate their subscriptions altogether. Due to turnover and reductions in the number of users for whom a customer subscribes, we must acquire new customers, or acquire new users within our existing customer base, on an ongoing basis simply to maintain our existing level of customers and revenues. If a significant number of customers terminate, reduce, or fail to renew their subscriptions, or do not pay their subscription fees, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing and/or sales expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to compensate for this higher turnover by increasing the number of new customers or upselling existing customers, and such additional marketing and/or sales expenditures could harm our business and results of operations. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to execute upon our multi-product strategy to sell additional subscriptions and additional functionalities to our current customers. Any increase in the costs necessary to upgrade, expand and retain existing customers could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. If our efforts to convince customers to add users and, in the future, to purchase additional functionalities are not successful, our business may suffer. In addition, such increased costs could cause us to increase our subscription rates, which could increase our turnover rate. Economic and political conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations. The success of our activities is affected by general economic and political conditions, including, among others, inflation rate fluctuations, interest rates, supply chain constraints, consumer confidence, volatile equity capital markets, tax rates, economic uncertainty, political instability, changes in laws, foreign currency exchange rates, and trade barriers and sanctions. Such economic volatility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and future market disruptions could negatively impact us. A significant portion of our revenues comes from small and medium-sized businesses, which have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties to a greater extent than larger enterprises with greater financial resources. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our operating costs and, because our typical contracts with customers lock in our price for a few years and/or may have elasticity clauses, our profitability could be negatively affected. Geopolitical destabilization could impact global currency exchange rates, supply chains, trade and movement of resources, the price of commodities such as energy, as well as demand for our products and services, which may adversely affect the technology spending of our customers and potential customers. Geopolitical conflicts, including the effects of the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine and related international sanctions against Russia, the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, any potential worsening or expansion of these conflicts and wars, and U.S.-China relations, are heightening these risks. The recent U.S. presidential election could lead to changes in economic conditions or economic uncertainties in the United States and globally. Any such changes or uncertainties, including in international trade relations, legislation and regulations (including those related to taxation and importation), or economic and monetary policies, could result in heightened diplomatic tensions or political and civil unrest, among other potential impacts, and have a material adverse effect on the global economy as a whole and/or our business, or may require us to significantly modify one or more of our current business practices. Some of our international agreements provide for payment denominated in local currencies, and the majority of our local costs are denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies has in the past, and may in the future, impact our operating results when translated into U.S. dollars. Thus, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Bulgarian Lev, Chinese Yuan, Indian Rupee, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, and Singapore Dollar, and may be adversely affected in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Certain changes in exchange rates have and may in the future negatively affect our revenues, expenses, and other operating results as expressed in U.S. dollars. We face intense competition in our markets and may lack sufficient financial or other resources to compete successfully. The cloud-based business communications and collaboration solutions industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from other providers of UCaaS, CCaaS, Communications Platform as a Service (CPaaS), messaging, video, fax, virtual events, AI (including quality management, sales assistant and other AI driven functionalities), virtual assistant, work- 17 Table of Contents force management/optimization and other communication products and services. Our competitors include traditional on-premises, hardware business communications providers, cloud, hybrid and hosted communications providers, GSPs and each of their channel partners, resellers, distributors and agents who offer proprietary or other third-party cloud business communications products and services. As a result, several of the companies with whom we have commercial relationships, such as our GSPs, OEM resellers, and channel partners, also offer, market and sell competing products and services. Our competitors include but are not limited to: 8x8, Inc., Dialpad, Inc., LogMeIn, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Nextiva, Inc., Twilio Inc., Ericsson (Vonage), Zoom Communications, Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., AT&T Inc., BT Group plc, TELUS Corporation, Vodafone Group Plc, Deutsche Telekom, Avaya LLC (Avaya), Mitel Networks Corporation (Mitel), Cisco Systems, Inc. (WebEx), Alphabet Inc. (Google Voice), Meta Platforms, Inc., Oracle Corporation, and Salesforce.com, Inc., Five9, Inc., NICE Ltd. (including LiveVox Holdings, Inc.), Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc., Talkdesk, Inc., Verint Systems Inc., Calabrio, Inc., yellow.ai, ON24, Inc., Cvent Holding Corp., Gong.io Inc., Alianza, Inc., and Outreach Corporation. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and/or name recognition, more diversified offerings, greater international presence, and larger customer bases than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. In addition, certain of our competitors have partnered with, or been acquired by, and may in the future partner with or acquire, other competitors to offer services, leveraging their collective competitive positions, which makes it more difficult to compete with them and could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. Demand for our platform is also sensitive to price. Many factors, including our marketing, user acquisition and technology costs, and our current and future competitors pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly affect our pricing strategies. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and promotions and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can to ours. Some of our competitors have in the past and may choose in the future to sacrifice revenues and/or profitability to gain market share by offering their services at lower prices or for free, or offering alternative pricing models, such as freemium pricing or free "service credits." Our competitors may also offer bundled service arrangements that provide more complete service offerings with other functionality that we do not offer (such as broadband), thereby making them more attractive to potential customers despite the technical merits or advantages of our platform. Competition could result in a decrease to our prices, increase customer acquisition costs, slow our growth, increase our customer turnover, reduce our sales, or decrease our market share, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and growth. We face significant risks in our efforts to sell and market to medium-sized and larger businesses for sales of our subscriptions and, if we do not manage these efforts effectively, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As we continue to sell and market to medium-sized and larger businesses, we expect to incur higher costs and longer sales cycles and we may be less effective at predicting if and when we will complete these sales. In these markets, the decision to purchase our subscriptions generally requires the approval of more technical personnel and management levels within a potential customers organization, and therefore, these types of sales require us to invest more time educating these potential customers about the benefits of our subscriptions. In addition, larger customers may demand more features, integration services, customization, more complex contract negotiations, and may require highly skilled sales and support personnel. Our investment in marketing our subscriptions to these potential customers may not be successful, which could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and our overall ability to grow our customer base. Furthermore, many medium-sized and larger businesses that we sell and market to may already purchase business communications solutions from our larger competitors or, due to economic conditions or otherwise, reduce their technology spending or reduce the number of new employees for whom they purchase our solutions or reduce the number of existing employees using our solution (i.e., down-sell). As a result of these factors, these medium and large sales opportunities may require us to devote greater research and development resources and sales support to individual customers, and invest in hiring and retaining highly skilled personnel, resulting in increased costs and could likely lengthen our typical sales cycle, which could strain our sales and support resources. Moreover, these larger transactions may require us to delay recognizing the associated revenues we derive from these customers until any technical or implementation requirements have been met. If we fail to continue to develop our brand or our reputation is harmed, our business may suffer. We believe that continuing to strengthen our current brand will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our subscriptions and will require continued focus on active marketing efforts. The demand for and cost of online and traditional advertising has been increasing and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we may need to increase our investment in, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses 18 Table of Contents incurred in building our brand. In addition, if we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our brand and reputation may suffer, we may lose our customers confidence, and they may choose to terminate, reduce or not to renew their subscriptions. Many of our customers also participate in social media and online blogs about Internet-based software solutions, including our subscriptions, and our success depends in part on our ability to minimize negative and generate positive customer feedback through such online channels where existing and potential customers seek and share information. If we fail to sufficiently invest in, promote and maintain our brand, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We depend largely on the continued services of our senior management and other highly-skilled employees, and if we are unable to hire, retain, manage and motivate our employees, we may not be able to grow effectively and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future performance depends on the continued services and contributions of our senior management and other key employees to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue opportunities and services innovations. The loss of services of senior management or other key employees, whether in the past or in the future, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business, financial, developmental and strategic objectives. In particular, we depend to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience, and effort of our co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Vladimir Shmunis, who has provided our strategic direction for over 20 years and has built and maintained what we believe is an attractive workplace culture. Any future changes resulting from the hiring or departure of executives could disrupt our business and could impact our ability to preserve our culture, which could negatively affect our ability to recruit and retain personnel. None of our executive officers or other senior management personnel is bound by a written employment agreement and any of them may therefore terminate employment with us at any time with limited or no advance notice. The replacement of any current or future senior management personnel could involve significant time and costs, and any such loss could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Despite many recent layoffs in the technology industry and at the company, we believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for highly skilled technical and other personnel with experience in our industry in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, in Denver, Colorado, where we have an office where a significant portion of our U.S. sales and customer support office and our network operations center is located, and in other locations where we have employees. In addition, changes to U.S. immigration policies, particularly to H-1B and other visa programs, and restrictions on travel could restrain the flow of technical and professional talent into the U.S. and may inhibit our ability to hire qualified personnel. Similar risks exist with respect to immigration regulations in other countries where we operate, may operate in the future or have employees or contractors. We must provide competitive compensation packages and a high-quality work environment to hire, retain, and motivate employees. If we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract qualified personnel to fill key positions, we may be unable to manage our business effectively, including the development, marketing, and sale of existing and new subscriptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. Volatility in, or lack of performance of, our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We may expand through acquisitions of and investments in other companies, each of which may divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations, and harm our results of operations. Our business strategy may, from time to time, include acquiring or investing in new or complementary services, technologies or businesses, strategic investments and partnerships, or other strategic transactions. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or transaction counterparties, securely or effectively integrate or manage disparate technologies, lines of business, personnel and corporate cultures, realize our business strategy or the expected return on our investment, including recoupment or write-down of our investments in the partnership, or manage a geographically dispersed company. Any such acquisition, investment, strategic partnership, or other strategic transaction could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The process of negotiating, effecting, and realizing the benefits from acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships, and strategic transactions is complex, expensive and time-consuming, and may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, development and sales activities and operations of both companies, and we may incur substantial cost and expense, as well as divert the attention of management. Our inability to successfully acquire and, thereafter, operate and integrate newly acquired businesses or newly formed strategic partnerships appropriately, effectively, and in a timely manner could impair our ability to take advantage of future growth opportunities and other advances in technology, as well as our revenues and gross margins. 19 Table of Contents Acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships, and other strategic transactions involve additional significant risks and uncertainties, including: unanticipated costs; difficulties in maintaining and effectively servicing the customers acquired in the transaction; the potential loss of key employees of any acquired businesses; the potential adverse effect on our cash position to the extent that we use cash for some or all of the transaction consideration; the potential significant increase of our interest expense, leverage, and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition, investment, strategic partnership, or other strategic transaction; the potential issuance of securities that would dilute our stockholders percentage ownership; the potential to incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; the assumption of contingent or other liabilities; the potential liability or expenses associated with new types of data stored, existing security obligations or liabilities, unknown weaknesses in our solutions, insufficient security measures in place, and compromise of our networks via access to our systems from assets not previously under our control; the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures; the inability to set up the necessary processes and systems to efficiently operate our partnerships and GSP relationships; and general technology, people and go-to-market integration risks. Our inability to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our operations and our overall business. Interruptions or delays in service whether caused by our third-party data center hosting facilities, other third-party providers, internal process failures, human errors, internal bugs or otherwise could impair the delivery of our subscriptions, require us to issue credits or pay penalties and harm our business. We currently serve our North American customers from geographically disparate data center hosting facilities in North America, where we lease space from Equinix, Inc., and other providers, and we serve our European customers from third-party data center hosting facilities in Europe. We also use third-party co-location facilities located in various international regions to serve our customers in these regions. Certain of our solutions are hosted by third-party data center facilities including Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform. Damage to, or failure of, these facilities, the communications network providers with whom we or they contract, or with the systems by which our communications providers allocate capacity among their customers, including us, or software errors, have in the past and could in the future result in interruptions in our services. Additionally, in connection with the addition of new data centers or expansion or consolidation of our existing data center facilities, we may move or transfer our data and our customers data to other data centers. Despite precautions that we take during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair or cause disruptions in the delivery of our subscriptions. We also resell third-party products and services, in particular, solutions from NICE Ltd. and Zoom Communications, Inc. and, any interruptions of their service may impact our customers. In addition, our services may have or be prone to errors, defects or bugs that could result in unanticipated interruptions of service. For example, in January 2025, we experienced an interruption in service due to an internal system error that impacted our customers for a limited number of hours, and we may in the future experience interruptions that impact our customers. Interruptions in our subscriptions may reduce our revenues, may require us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new and retain existing customers. Our ability to attract and retain customers depends on our ability to provide customers with a highly reliable subscription and even minor interruptions in our subscriptions could harm our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, our North American, European, and Asia Pacific infrastructure and our North American, European, and Asia Pacific customers data is currently replicated in near real-time at data center facilities in the U.S., Europe, and Asia Pacific, respectively. We do not control the operation of these facilities or of our other data center facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, floods, fires, public health crises, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. They may also be subject to human error, break-ins, sabotage, acts of vandalism, cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware or denial-of-service attacks, an act of terrorism and similar misconduct. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements in place, our subscriptions could be interrupted. 20 Table of Contents We may also be required to transfer our servers to new data center facilities in the event that we are unable to renew our leases on acceptable terms, if at all, or the owners of the facilities decide to close their facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible subscription interruption in connection with doing so. In addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy or foreclosure, faced by our third-party data center operators, or any of the service providers with which we or they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Additionally, if our data centers are unable to keep up with our increasing needs for capacity, our ability to grow our business could be materially and adversely impacted. A security incident, such as a cyber-attack, information security breach, or denial of service event, could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or business, impact our subscriptions, and subject us to significant liability. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our production and corporate information technology services from interruption or damage from various threats, including cyber-attacks, denial-of-service events and other system and network disruptions, social engineering, unauthorized entry, insider threats, rogue employees or contractors, computer malware or other means of causing security breaches or incidents. Although we require our employees to undertake privacy and cybersecurity training, we have from time to time been subject to communications fraud, social engineering tactics, cyber-attacks by malicious actors, and denial of service and other disruptive events, and we may be subject to similar attacks in the future, particularly as the frequency and sophistication of cyber-attacks increases. We cannot assure you that our backup systems, regular data backups, security controls, personnel training, and other procedures currently in place, or that may be in place in the future, will prevent significant damage, system failure, service outages, data incidents, data loss, unauthorized access, loss of use, interruption, or increased charges from our technology vendors. The amount of data we store for our customers and users increases as our business grows. We host services, which includes hosting customer data, in co-located data centers and in multiple public cloud services. Our solutions allow users to store files, tasks, calendar events, messages and other data on our services indefinitely or as may be directed by our customers, at least until termination of the agreement. We also maintain sensitive data related to our technology and business, and that of our employees, strategic partners, GSPs, channel partners, and customers, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information (also called personal data) on our own systems and in multiple vendors cloud services. As a result of maintaining larger volumes of data and user files and/or as a result of our continued movement up market, or movement into new customer markets and acquisition of larger and more recognized customers, we may become more of a target for hackers, nation states, and other malicious actors. In addition, we use third-party vendors who, in some cases, have access to our data and our employees, partners, and customers data. We employ layered security measures and have a means of working with third parties who report vulnerabilities to us. Despite the implementation of security measures by us or our vendors, our computing devices, infrastructure, or networks, or our vendors computing devices, infrastructure, or networks have in the past, and may in the future, be vulnerable to hackers, computer viruses, worms, ransomware, other malware, employee theft or misuse, phishing, denial-of-service attacks, or similar disruptive problems that are caused by or through a security weakness or vulnerability in our or our vendors infrastructure, network, or business practices or our or our vendors customers, employees, business partners, consultants, or other Internet users who attempt to obtain unauthorized access to our or our vendors corporate or personal systems, networks, or devices. Security weaknesses or vulnerabilities in our, our vendors, or our customers infrastructure, networks, or business practices could lead to increased costs, liability claims, including contractual liability claims relating to security obligations in agreements with our partners and our customers, fines, claims, investigations and other proceedings, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. In addition, even if vulnerabilities are not exploited or targeted, we could incur increased costs and capital expenditures in any efforts we undertake to strengthen our security controls or remediate security vulnerabilities. We currently require a substantial number of our employees to work in one of our offices, nevertheless, we have implemented remote working protocols and offer work-issued devices to substantially all employees, whether working in an office or remotely. Actions of employees while working remotely may have significant effects on the security of our infrastructure, networks, and the information we process, such as by increasing the risk of compromise to systems or data arising from employees combined personal and private use of devices, accessing our networks or information using wireless networks that we do not control, or the ability to transmit or store information outside of our network. Our employees or third parties intentional, unintentional, or inadvertent actions may increase our vulnerability to or expose us to security threats, such as ransomware or other malware and phishing attacks, and we may remain responsible for or otherwise face liability in connection with unauthorized access to, loss, unavailability alteration, destruction, acquisition, disclosure or other processing of information we or our vendors, business partners, or consultants process or otherwise maintain. Additionally, political and geopolitical uncertainty and actions, such as the war between Russia and Ukraine and the conflicts in the Middle East, may create heightened risks to us and our vendors, business partners, and consultants of cyber-attacks from nation-state actors or 21 Table of Contents their affiliated entities, including attacks that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our services. Also, cyber-attacks, including on the supply chain (including our software supply chain), continue to increase in frequency and magnitude, and we cannot provide assurances that our preventative efforts, or those of our suppliers, have been or will be successful. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of and access to confidential information, including customer credit card numbers, debit card numbers, direct debit information, customer communications, and files uploaded by our customers. Advances in computer capabilities, new cryptographic discoveries, software or hardware bugs or vulnerabilities, social engineering activities, the introduction of ransomware or other malicious code, or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect our data and our customer data, or of the data itself. We also have incorporated AI-powered features into our solutions and may continue to incorporate additional AI features and technologies into our solutions in the future. Our use of AI features and technologies may create additional cybersecurity risks or increase cybersecurity risks, including risks of security breaches and incidents. Further, AI technologies may be used in connection with certain cybersecurity attacks, resulting in heightened risks of security breaches and incidents. Additionally, third parties have in the past successfully induced, and may attempt in the future to induce using social engineering or other methods, employees, consultants, or customers into disclosing sensitive information, such as usernames, provisioning data, customer proprietary network information (CPNI) or other information in order to gain access to our customers user accounts or data, or to our systems or data. CPNI includes information such as the phone numbers called by a customer, the frequency, duration, and timing of such calls, and any services purchased by the consumer, such as call waiting, call forwarding, and caller ID, in addition to other information that may appear on a customers bill. Third parties may also attempt to induce employees, consultants, or customers into disclosing information regarding our and our customers intellectual property, personal data and other confidential information. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, to perform hacking, phishing and social engineering, or to sabotage systems change and evolve frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, may be new and previously unknown or little-known, or may not be detected or understood until well after such actions are conducted. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques and may be unsuccessful in implementing appropriate preventative measures, and any security breach or other incident may be difficult to detect and may take longer than expected to remediate or otherwise address. Any system failure or disruption or security breach or incident that causes interruptions or data loss in our operations or in the computer systems of our customers or leads to the misappropriation, loss, unavailability, or unauthorized use, disclosure, or other processing of our or our customers confidential or personal information could result in significant liability to us, loss of our intellectual property, cause our subscriptions to be perceived as not being secure, cause considerable harm to us and our reputation (including requiring notification to customers, regulators, or the media), and deter current and potential customers from using our subscriptions. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. It is critical to our business that our sensitive information and that of our employees, strategic partners, GSPs, channel partners and customers remains secure and that our customers perceive that this information is secure. An information security incident could result in unauthorized access to, loss or unavailability of, or unauthorized disclosure or other processing of such information. Any actual or perceived cybersecurity breach or incident could expose us to litigation, indemnity obligations, government notification and investigations or other proceedings, contractual liability, and other possible liabilities, and could result in negative publicity, which could harm our reputation and reduce our customers confidence in the effectiveness of our solutions, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. A security breach or incident could also expose us to increased costs, including remediation costs, disruption of operations, or increased cybersecurity protection costs, that may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, an actual or perceived security breach or incident of or impacting our customers systems can also result in exposure of credentials, unauthorized access to accounts, exposure of their information and data (including CPNI), and fraudulent calls on their accounts, which can have impacts to us similar to those described above. Any actual or perceived security breach or incident of or impacting our partners or vendors systems can result in similar impacts. Additionally, due to the nature of our solutions, we are unable to maintain complete control over data security or the implementation of measures that reduce the risk of a data security incident. For example, our customers may accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a mobile device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. Additionally, our third-party contractors in the Philippines, U.S., Georgia, and elsewhere may have access to customer data. While our agreements with our third-party contractors restrict their use or disclosure of any customer data, if these or other third-party vendors violate applicable laws or our policies, this may put our customers information at risk and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Laws, regulations, and enforcement activities relating to security and privacy continue to evolve. For example, in 2023, the SEC adopted cybersecurity risk management and disclosure rules, which require the disclosure of information 22 Table of Contents pertaining to cybersecurity incidents and cybersecurity risk management, strategy, and governance. Additionally, the Digital Operational Resiliency Act went into effect on January 17, 2025. It aims to establish a universal framework for managing and mitigating information and communication technology risk that will apply to financial-sector entities and their third-party cloud service providers. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses in our efforts to prevent and address security incidents. Determining whether a security breach or incident is notifiable or reportable may not be straightforward and may be costly and could lead to negative publicity, loss of customer or partner confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, diversion of managements attention, governmental investigations, and the expenditure of significant capital and other resources to respond to or alleviate problems caused by the actual or perceived security breach or incident. We may find it necessary for various reasons, such as a need to support changes to applicable laws or to support our expansion of sales into new geographic areas or into new industry markets, to change or enhance our cybersecurity measures, which may make it more expensive to operate in certain jurisdictions and may increase the risk of our non-compliance with evolving laws and regulations. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may be insufficient to cover all liabilities incurred by privacy or security incidents. We also cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient for data handling or data security liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that an insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation. The AI technology and features incorporated into our solutions include new and evolving technologies that may present both legal and business risks. We have incorporated a number of AI-powered features, including RingSense, into our solutions. We use internally developed and third-party developed machine learning and AI technologies and we are making further investments in expanding our AI capabilities. AI technologies are complex and rapidly evolving, and we face significant competition from other companies as well as an evolving legal and regulatory landscape. The successful integration of new and emerging AI technologies, such as generative AI, automated speech recognition (ASR), text-to-speech (TTS) and natural language processing (NLP) into our platforms and solutions will require additional investment, and the development of new approaches and processes, which will be costly and increase our expenses. Further, the incorporation of AI-powered features into our solutions will subject us to new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, confidentiality or security risks, ethical concerns, or other complications that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. Intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, surrounding AI technologies are new, evolving, and have not been fully addressed by federal or state laws or by U.S. courts, and the manner in which we and our third-party developers configure and use AI technologies may expose us to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation. In addition, the cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Relatedly, large language models, or LLMs, can generate written content that contains bias, factual errors, misrepresentations, offensive language, or inappropriate statements. While we attempt to use LLMs in a way that mitigates these risks, there is no guarantee that we will be successful and these risks could harm our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the use of AI involves significant technical complexity and requires specialized expertise, and competition for specialized personnel in the AI industry is intense. Any disruption or failure in our or our third-party developers AI systems or infrastructure could result in delays or errors in our operations, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The use of AI by our workforce may present risks to our business. Our workforce is exposed to and uses AI technologies for certain tasks related to our business. We have guidelines and policies specifically directed at the use of AI tools in the workplace. Nevertheless, the use of these AI tools, whether authorized or unauthorized, by our workforce, poses potential risks relating to the protection of data, including cybersecurity risk, exposure of our proprietary confidential information to unauthorized recipients, and the misuse of our or third-party intellectual property. Use of AI technology by our workforce, even if consistent with our guidelines, may result in allegations or claims against us related to violation of third-party intellectual property or other rights, unauthorized access to or use of proprietary information, and failure to comply with open source software requirements. In addition, our employees use AI tools for various design and engineering tasks such as writing code and building content, and these tools may produce inaccurate responses that could lead to errors in our decision-making, solution development or other business activities, which could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to mitigate these risks will depend on our provision of effective training, monitoring and enforcement of appropriate policies, guidelines and procedures, and compliance by our workforce. We rely on third-party competitors to deliver video, contact center and SMS services to customers, and changes in these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently use and/or provide third-party technology and integrations from Zoom Communications, Inc., NICE Ltd., Bandwidth.com, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and other companies to provide some of our solutions to our customers, including video, contact center and SMS solutions. We use, or in the future, may use and rely on technologies of other third-parties to deliver features and functionalities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our agreements with any of these third-party providers and any of these service providers could elect or attempt to stop providing us with access to their services. In addition, these third-party providers may terminate or breach their contracts with us, or allow these contracts to expire. If any of these service providers cease to provide us with their services, fails to provide these services to us on a cost-effective basis or at reasonable levels of quality and security, ceases operations, or otherwise terminates or discontinues these services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our inability to continue to offer these third-party solutions to our customers and/or our inability to effectively offer or migrate these customers to our own alternative or other third-party alternative solutions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. U.S. mobile carriers are now requiring businesses using SMS on over-the-top providers, including all CPaaS and UCaaS providers, such as RingCentral, to register with The Campaign Registry ("TCR"), to ensure text messages are compliant with wireless carrier guidelines, as well as to reduce spam. These new rules affect our customers, and we have built integrations with TCR to facilitate those registrations for our customers. TCR registration and related vetting can be cumbersome and costly and may cause customer churn, especially for SMB customers that have more limited person-to-person SMS needs. Additionally, SMS aggregators and wireless carriers sometimes block legitimate SMS traffic without prior notice, which may negatively impact our customers. Bandwidth, RingCentrals SMS aggregator, currently blocks any and all SMS sent by phone numbers that have not been registered with TCR and associated with an approved messaging campaign. Despite our ongoing efforts to minimize the impact on our customers, our potential inability to provide SMS to affected customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations and customer base may expose us to significant risks. We have significant operations directly or through third parties in many countries outside of the U.S. and Canada, including, the U.K., China, the Philippines, Germany, Georgia, Bulgaria, Spain, Australia, India, and France. We also sell our solutions to customers in several countries in Europe, as well as in the Asia Pacific region, and we may continue to grow our international presence in the future. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our operations and customer base worldwide, as well as our ability to acquire and maintain international customers in a cost effective manner. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from those in the U.S. Due to our relatively limited experience with international operations and developing and managing sales and distribution channels in international markets, our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could materially and adversely affect our business, including: our ability to comply with differing and evolving technical and environmental standards, telecommunications regulations, and certification requirements outside the U.S.; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including managing compliance with foreign labor laws and regulations; 24 Table of Contents new and different sources of competition; our ability to effectively price our subscriptions in competitive international markets; potentially greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; the need to adapt and localize our subscriptions and product offerings for specific countries and local regulators; the need to offer customer care, product information, websites, and other marketing collateral in various native languages; the need to contract and bill in various native languages, currencies, and under a variety of different legal systems; reliance on third parties over which we have limited control, including those that market and resell our subscriptions in international markets; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; lower levels of adoption of credit or debit card usage for Internet related purchases by foreign customers and compliance with various foreign regulations related to credit or debit card processing and data protection requirements; export controls and economic sanctions, foreign trade restrictions, travel restrictions, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including tariffs and other non-tariff barriers, such as quotas and local content rules; our ability to comply with different and evolving laws, rules, and regulations, including the European General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), and other data privacy and data protection laws, and regulations; compliance with various anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act of 2010; more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; adverse tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations, which might restrict or prohibit our conversion of other currencies into U.S. dollars; restrictions on the transfer of funds; deterioration of political relations between the U.S. and other countries where we have personnel who support our business, particularly China, India, Bulgaria, Spain, and the Philippines; and political or social unrest, economic instability, conflict or war in such countries. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business. If we are unable to effectively process local number and toll-free number portability provisioning, and/or our customers are unable to register with TCR in a timely manner, our growth may be negatively affected. We support local number and toll-free number portability, which allows our customers to transfer to us and thereby retain their existing phone numbers when subscribing to our services. Transferring numbers is a manual process that can take up to 15 business days or longer to complete. A new customer of our subscriptions must maintain both our subscription and the customers existing phone service during the number transferring process. Any delay that we experience in transferring these numbers typically results from the fact that we depend on third-party GSPs to transfer these numbers, a process that we do not control, and these third-party GSPs may refuse or substantially delay the transfer of these numbers to us. Local number portability is considered an important feature by many potential customers, and if we fail to reduce any related delays, we may experience increased difficulty in acquiring new customers. Moreover, the FCC requires Internet voice communications providers to comply with specified number porting timeframes when customers leave our subscription for the services of another provider. Several international jurisdictions have imposed similar number portability requirements on subscription providers like us. If we or our third-party GSPs are unable to process number portability requests within the requisite timeframes, we could be subject to fines and penalties. Additionally, in the U.S., both customers and GSPs may seek relief from the relevant state public utility commission, the FCC, or in state or federal court for violation of local number portability requirements. 25 Table of Contents U.S. mobile carriers are now requiring businesses using SMS on over-the-top providers, including all CPaaS and UCaaS providers, such as RingCentral, to register with TCR, to ensure text messages are compliant with wireless carrier guidelines, as well as to reduce spam. These new rules affect our customers, and we have built integrations with TCR to facilitate those registrations for our customers. TCR registration and related vetting can be cumbersome and costly and may cause customer churn, especially for SMB customers that have more limited person-to-person SMS needs. Additionally, SMS aggregators and wireless carriers sometimes block legitimate SMS traffic without prior notice, which may negatively impact our customers. Bandwidth.com, Inc., RingCentrals SMS aggregator, currently blocks any and all SMS sent by phone numbers that have not been registered with TCR and associated with an approved messaging campaign. Despite our ongoing efforts to minimize the impact on our customers, our potential inability to provide SMS to affected customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could suffer if we cannot obtain or retain direct inward dialing numbers or are prohibited from obtaining local or toll-free numbers or if we are limited to distributing local or toll-free numbers to only certain customers. Our future success depends on our ability to procure large quantities of local and toll-free direct inward dialing numbers (DIDs) in the U.S. and foreign countries in desirable locations at a reasonable cost and without restrictions. Our ability to procure and distribute DIDs depends on factors outside of our control, such as applicable regulations, the practices of the communications GSPs that provide DIDs, the cost of these DIDs, and the level of demand for new DIDs. For instance, France implemented new rules requiring service providers to obtain DIDs directly from regulatory authorities. Further, due to their limited availability, there are certain popular area code prefixes that we generally cannot obtain. Our inability to acquire DIDs for our operations would make our subscriptions less attractive to potential customers in the affected local geographic areas. In addition, future growth in our customer base, together with growth in the customer bases of other providers of cloud-based business communications, has increased, which increases our dependence on needing sufficiently large quantities of DIDs. If we experience excessive fraudulent activity or cannot meet evolving credit card association merchant standards, we could incur substantial costs and lose the right to accept credit cards for payment, which could cause our customer base, new sales, and revenues to decline significantly. Most of our customers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for service fees that we charge. If customers pay for our subscriptions with stolen credit cards, we could incur substantial third-party vendor costs for which we may not be reimbursed. Further, our customers provide us with credit card billing information online or over the phone, and we do not review the physical credit cards used in these transactions, which increases our risk of exposure to fraudulent activity. We also incur charges, which are referred to in the industry as chargebacks, from the credit card companies from claims that a customer did not authorize the specific credit card transaction to purchase our subscription. If the number of chargebacks becomes excessive, we could be assessed substantial fines or be charged higher transaction fees, and we could lose the right to accept credit cards for payment. In addition, credit card issuers may change merchant and/or service provider standards, including data protection standards, required to utilize their services from time to time. We have established and implemented measures intended to comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). If we fail to maintain compliance with such standards or fail to meet new standards, the credit card associations could fine us or terminate their agreements with us, and we would be unable to accept credit cards as payment for our subscriptions. If we fail to maintain compliance with current service provider standards, such as the PCI DSS, or fail to meet new standards, customers may choose not to use our services. If such a failure to comply with relevant standards occurs, we may also face legal liability if we are found to not comply with applicable laws that incorporate, by reference or by adoption of substantially similar provisions, merchant or service provider standards, including the PCI DSS. Our subscriptions may also be subject to fraudulent usage, including but not limited to revenue share fraud, domestic traffic pumping, subscription fraud, premium text message scams, and other fraudulent schemes. This usage can result in, among other things, substantial bills from our vendors, for which we would be responsible, for terminating fraudulent call traffic. In addition, third parties may have attempted in the past, and may attempt in the future, to induce employees, sub-contractors, or consultants into disclosing customer credentials and other account information using social engineering and other methods, which can result in unauthorized access to customer accounts and customer data, unauthorized use of customers services, charges to customers for fraudulent usage and costs that we must pay to GSPs. Although we have implemented multiple fraud prevention, detection controls and personnel trainings, we cannot assure you that these controls will be adequate to protect against fraud. Substantial losses due to fraud or our inability to accept credit card payments could cause our paid customer base to significantly decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and ability to grow our business. 26 Table of Contents Failures in Internet infrastructure or interference with broadband access could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, possibly leading our customers to switch to our competitors or to avoid using our subscriptions. Unlike traditional communications services, our subscriptions depend on our customers high-speed broadband access to the Internet. Increasing numbers of users and increasing bandwidth requirements may degrade the performance of our services and applications due to capacity constraints and other Internet infrastructure limitations. As our customer base grows and their usage of our services increases, we will likely be required to make additional investments in network capacity to maintain adequate data transmission speeds, the availability of which may be limited, or the cost of which may be on terms unacceptable to us. If adequate capacity is not available to us as our customers usage increases, our network may be unable to achieve or maintain sufficiently high reliability or performance. In addition, if Internet access service providers have outages or deteriorations in their quality of service, our customers will not have access to our subscriptions or may experience a decrease in the quality of our services. Frequent or persistent interruptions could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems or services are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our subscriptions, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. In addition, users who access our subscriptions and applications through mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, must have a high-speed connection, such as Wi-Fi, 4G, 5G, or LTE, to use our services and applications. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant and increasing market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent phone companies, cable companies, and wireless companies. Some of these providers offer solutions and subscriptions that directly compete with our own offerings, which can potentially give them a competitive advantage. Also, these providers could take measures that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to third-party services, including our offerings, by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate third-party services or by charging increased fees to third parties or the users of third-party services, any of which would make our subscriptions less attractive to users, and reduce our revenues. Interruptions in our services caused by undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our services and/or human error could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and impair our ability to sell our subscriptions. Our services may have errors or defects that customers identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated interruptions of service. Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors and bugs when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. While the substantial majority of our customers are small and medium-sized businesses, the use of our services in complicated, large-scale network environments may increase our exposure to undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our services. Further, human error in maintaining our system could also lead to unanticipated service interruptions. Although we test our services to detect and correct errors and defects before their general release, we have, from time to time, experienced significant interruptions in our services as a result of such technical and/or human errors or defects and may experience future interruptions of service if we fail to detect and correct these errors and defects. For example, in January 2025, we experienced an interruption in service due to an internal system error that impacted our customers for a limited number of hours, and we may in the future experience interruptions that impact our customers. The costs incurred in correcting such defects or errors may be substantial and could harm our results of operations. In addition, we rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties to offer our services. Any defects in, or unavailability of, our or third-party software or hardware that cause interruptions of our services could, among other things: cause a reduction in revenues or a delay in market acceptance of our services; require us to pay penalties or issue credits or refunds to our customers, channel partners, strategic partners, or GSPs, or expose us to claims for damages; cause us to lose existing customers and make it more difficult to attract new customers; divert our development resources or require us to make extensive changes to our software, which would increase our expenses and slow innovation; increase our technical support costs; harm our reputation and brand; and result in litigation and regulatory action against the company. Potential problems with our information systems could interfere with our business and operations. 27 Table of Contents We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for processing customer orders, distribution of our subscriptions, billing our customers, processing credit card transactions, customer relationship management, supporting financial planning and analysis, accounting functions and financial statement preparation, and otherwise running our business. Information systems may experience interruptions, including interruptions of related services from third-party providers, which may be beyond our control. Such business interruptions could cause us to fail to meet customer requirements. All information systems, both internal and external, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches and incidents, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures, employee or other theft, and third-party provider failures. In addition, since telecommunications billing is inherently complex and requires highly sophisticated information systems to administer, our internally developed billing system may experience errors or we may improperly operate the system, which could result in the system incorrectly calculating the fees owed by our customers for our subscriptions or related taxes and administrative fees. Any such errors in our customer billing could harm our reputation and cause us to violate truth in billing laws and regulations. Our current internally developed billing system requires us to process an increasing number of invoices manually, which could result in billing errors. Any errors or disruption in our information systems and those of the third parties upon which we rely could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we may implement further and enhanced information systems in the future to meet the demands resulting from our growth and to provide additional capabilities and functionality. The implementation of new systems and enhancements is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise, and can be time-consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities, and divert management attention. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We continue to experience growth in our business. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management, organizational structure, and our operational and financial infrastructure, particularly as we try to become more profitable and financially and operationally efficient. As our operations continue to scale and become more complex, we may need to increase our sales and marketing efforts and may add additional sales and marketing personnel in various regions worldwide and improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to attract, service, and retain an increasing number of customers. For example, we expect the volume of simultaneous calls and video conferences to increase significantly as our customer base grows. Our network hardware and software may not be able to accommodate this additional simultaneous call volume. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure could require us to commit substantial financial, operational, and technical resources in advance of an increase in the volume of business, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. Any such additional capital investments will increase our cost base. Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our customers, resellers, partners, and GSPs, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our billing and reporting systems and procedures, and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel. In addition, our existing systems, processes, and controls may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions, or fraud. We may also experience difficulties in managing improvements to our systems, processes, and controls or in connection with third-party software licensed to help us with such improvements. Any future growth, particularly further international expansion and our transition to a multi-product company, could add complexity to our organization, require effective communication and coordination throughout our organization, and result in additional costs. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial, operating, security and administrative systems and controls, and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and processes. Additionally, our productivity and the quality of our solutions and services may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as we grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Support for smartphones and tablets are an integral part of our solutions. If we are unable to develop robust mobile applications that operate on the mobile platforms that our customers use, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our solutions allow our customers to use and manage our cloud-based business communications solution on smart devices. As new smart devices and operating systems are released, we may encounter difficulties supporting these devices and services. We also need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of our mobile applications. In addition, if we experience difficulties in the future integrating our mobile applications into smart devices or if problems arise with our relationships with providers of mobile operating systems, such as those of Apple Inc. or Alphabet Inc., our future growth and our results of operations could suffer. Third-party application stores may also impose new requirements, including, for example, updates to their terms of access or policies on how we or our channel partners must collect, use and share data. Compliance with any such requirements could be costly or burdensome, and could prevent us from timely updating our current solutions or uploading new solutions. If 28 Table of Contents we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose access to, or be required to remove our mobile applications from, third-party application stores. The occurrence of a catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities or the facilities of our contractors, which could cause us to curtail our operations. Our corporate headquarters and other offices and many of our data centers, co-location and research and development facilities, and third-party customer service call centers are located in the U.S. (including in the state of California), Spain, Georgia, Bulgaria, and several countries in Asia, including China, the Philippines, India, and Australia. Many of these locations are near known earthquake fault zones, which are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes and tsunamis, or are in areas subject to hurricanes and typhoons. We and our contractors are also vulnerable to other types of disasters, such as power loss, fire, floods, pandemics, cyber-attack, war (including ongoing geopolitical tensions related to the war between Russia and Ukraine and the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East), political unrest, and terrorist attacks and similar events that are beyond our control. If any disasters or geopolitical conflicts were to occur or worsen, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired, and we may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our subscriptions development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security, and loss of critical data, all of which could harm our future results of operations. In addition, we do not carry earthquake insurance and we may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from other disasters or other similar significant business interruptions. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties We rely on third parties, including third parties in countries outside the U.S., for a significant portion of our software development and design, quality assurance, operations, and customer support. We currently depend on various third parties for some of our software development efforts, quality assurance, operations, and customer support services, including third parties in countries outside the U.S. Specifically, we have outsourced a significant portion of our software development and design, quality assurance, and operations activities to third-party contractors that have employees and consultants principally in Tbilisi, Georgia. In addition, we outsource a significant portion of our customer support, inside sales, network operation control functions, and general and administrative activities to third-party contractors located in Manila, the Philippines. For example, we offer customer support from third-party contractors located in the Philippines through both our online account management website and our toll-free customer support number in multiple languages. The ability to support our customers may be disrupted by natural disasters, inclement weather conditions, civil and political unrest, strikes, and other adverse events in the Philippines. Furthermore, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, we may need to make further significant expenditures and investments in our customer service and support to adequately address the complex needs of international customers, such as support in additional foreign languages. We also use third parties to deliver onsite professional services to our customers in deploying our solutions. If these vendors do not deliver timely and high-quality services to our customers, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose customers. In addition, third-party professional services vendors may not be available when needed, which would adversely impact our ability to deliver on our customer commitments. Our dependence on third-party contractors, including those in countries outside the U.S., creates a number of risks, in particular, the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control, or effective management with respect to these business operations. We also rely on purchased or leased hardware and software licensed from third parties, in particular, NICE Ltd. and Zoom Communications, Inc., in order to offer our subscriptions, and in some cases, we integrate third-party licensed software components into our platform. Any errors or defects in third-party hardware or software could result in errors or a failure of our subscriptions which could harm our business. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on our third-party relationships in order to grow our business for the foreseeable future. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining existing and, if needed, establishing new relationships with third parties, our ability to efficiently operate existing services or develop new services and provide adequate customer support could be impaired, and, as a result, our competitive position or our results of operations could suffer. To deliver our subscriptions, we rely on third parties for our network connectivity and for certain of the features in our subscriptions. 29 Table of Contents We currently use the infrastructure of third-party network service providers, including Inteliquent, Inc., Lumen Technologies, Inc. and Bandwidth.com, Inc. in North America and several others internationally, to deliver our subscriptions over their networks. Our third-party network service providers provide access to their Internet protocol (IP) networks and public switched telephone networks, and provide call termination and origination services, including 911 emergency calling in the U.S. and equivalent services internationally, and local number portability for our customers. We expect that we will continue to rely heavily on third-party network service providers to provide these subscriptions for the foreseeable future. If any of these network service providers stop providing us with access to their infrastructure, fail to provide these services to us on a cost-effective basis or at reasonable levels of quality and security, cease operations, or otherwise terminate these services, the delay caused by qualifying and switching to another third-party network service provider, if one is available, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Finally, if problems occur with any of these third-party network service providers, it may cause outages, errors or poor call quality in our subscriptions, and we could encounter difficulty identifying the source of the problem. The occurrence of outages, errors or poor call quality in our subscriptions, whether caused by our systems or a third-party network or service provider, may result in the loss of our existing customers, delay or loss of market acceptance of our subscriptions, termination of our relationships and agreements with our channel partners, strategic partners, or GSPs, or liability for failure to meet service level agreements which may require us to issue service credits or pay damages, and may seriously harm our business and results of operations. We rely on third-party software that may be difficult to replace or which could cause errors or failures of our subscriptions. We rely on software licensed from certain third parties in order to offer our solutions. In some cases, we integrate third-party licensed software components into our platform. This software may not continue to be available at reasonable prices or on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this software could significantly increase our expenses and otherwise result in delays in the provisioning of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained, and integrated. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions, which could harm our business. We rely on third parties to fulfill various aspects of our E-911 service. If these third parties do not provide our customers with reliable, high-quality service, our reputation will be harmed, and we may lose customers. We contract with third parties to provide emergency services calls in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and other jurisdictions in which we provide access to emergency services dialing, including assistance in routing emergency calls and terminating emergency services calls. Our domestic providers operate a national call center that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to receive certain emergency calls and maintain PSAP databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services. We rely on providers for similar functions in other jurisdictions in which we provide access to emergency services dialing. On mobile devices, we rely on the underlying cellular or wireless carrier to provide emergency services dialing. Interruptions in service from our vendors could cause failures in our customers access to E-911/999/112 services and expose us to liability and damage our reputation. If these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, or the service is not provided in compliance with regulatory requirements, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our costs for these services. We currently depend on a limited number of phone device suppliers and fulfillment agents to configure and deliver the phones that we sell. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide phones that we offer for sale to our customers that use our services, and we rely on a limited number of fulfillment agents to configure and deliver the phones that we sell to our customers. Accordingly, we could be adversely affected if such third parties fail to maintain competitive phones or configuration services or fail to continue to make them available on attractive terms, or at all. Further, our vendor-supplied phones have lead times of up to several months for delivery to our fulfillment agents and are built to forecasts that may be imprecise. We may, from time to time, we will have either excess or insufficient product inventory. If our fulfillment agents are unable to deliver phones of acceptable quality, or if there is a reduction or interruption in their ability to deliver the phones in a timely manner including due to the end of life of any particular unit, our ability to bring services to market, the reliability of our services and our relationships with customers or our overall reputation in the 30 Table of Contents marketplace could suffer, which could cause us to lose revenue. We expect that it could take several months to effectively transition to new third-party manufacturers or fulfillment agents. In addition, hard phones must interoperate with our back-end servers and systems, which contain complex specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and software applications. If any of our suppliers changes the operation of their phones or implements new or updated firmware releases for their phones, we will be required to undertake development and testing efforts to ensure that the new phones interoperate with our system. If our vendor-supplied phones do not interoperate effectively with our system, our customers ability to use our subscriptions could be delayed or orders for our subscriptions could be canceled, which would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Our subscriptions are subject to regulation, and future legislative or regulatory actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability in the U.S. and internationally. Federal Regulation RingCentrals voice products are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) as interconnected VoIP services, and RingCentral provides other communications services, such as videoconferencing and fax, that may also be subject to FCC regulation. As a communications service provider, we are subject to existing or potential FCC regulations relating to privacy and data protection, disability access, porting of numbers, cooperation with law enforcement, emergency dialing, wiretapping, outage reporting, call authentication, anti-fraud measures, robocalling and robotexting and junk faxes, Federal Universal Service Fund (USF) contributions, and other requirements and regulations. FCC reclassification of our interconnected VoIP services as Telecommunications Services could result in additional federal and state regulatory obligations. If we do not comply with FCC rules and regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines, loss of authorizations, and possibly restrictions on our ability to provide our services. Any enforcement action by the FCC, which may be a public process, could result in significant fines, hurt our reputation in the industry, and/or have a material adverse impact on our revenues. In some cases, actions by our customers could result in liability for RingCentral under FCC, FTC, and/or state laws or regulations, either through enforcement by regulatory agencies, state attorneys general, or through private actions. State Regulation State regulation of our interconnected VoIP services is generally preempted by the FCC. RingCentrals interconnected VoIP services are considered to be nomadic, because they can be used from any broadband connection. However, a number of states, including California, require us to register as a VoIP provider, contribute to state USF, assess and remit state and local telecom fees, and pay other surcharges and annual fees that fund various state programs. Where permitted, we may pass these fees and surcharges onto our customers, which may result in our subscriptions becoming more expensive or require us to absorb these costs. Additionally, we may be subject to state laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection, disability access, emergency dialing, wiretapping, outage reporting, and other requirements and regulations. Failure to comply with any current or future state regulations that apply to our business, could result in substantial fines and penalties and could harm our business. International Regulation RingCentral provides communications services in over forty countries. We are subject to foreign laws and regulations relating to communications, digital services, call authentication, wiretapping, metering and billing, consumer protection, data protection, security, Artificial Intelligence, emergency calling, anti-fraud measures, and other requirements. Any foreign regulations could impose substantial compliance costs on us, restrict our ability to compete, and impact our ability to provide service in certain markets. Some jurisdictions restrict the resale of certain communications services, which may impact our go-to-market strategy and affect our revenues. Failure to comply with any current or future foreign laws or regulations that apply to our business, could result in substantial fines and penalties, cause us to have to restructure our product offerings, exit certain markets, or raise the price of our products, and could harm our business. 31 Table of Contents We process, store, and use personal information and other data, which subjects us and our customers to a variety of evolving international statutes, governmental regulation, industry standards and self-regulatory schemes, contractual obligations, and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection, which may increase our costs, decrease adoption and use of our solutions and subscriptions, and expose us to liability. In the course of providing our services, RingCentral collects, stores, transmits, and discloses (collectively, processes) many types of personal data, including sensitive personal data. RingCentrals processing of personal data is subject to a myriad of obligations and restrictions flowing from laws, regulations, industry standards, and contracts. Data protection laws in the U.S. and abroad give consumers and businesses rights to control the processing of personal data, including the right to opt-out of the sale, sharing, or certain uses of their data and to which countries their data may be transferred. In the U.S., we could be subject to enforcement actions if the FTC or state attorneys general have reason to believe we have engaged in unfair or deceptive privacy or data security practices. Sector specific laws applicable to personal health data, personal data processed on behalf of financial institutions, data about minors, and personal data processed in the course of providing communications services impose compliance costs and create regulatory risks. Omnibus privacy laws applicable abroad and in an increasing number of U.S. states may apply to RingCentrals processing in those jurisdictions. In addition, many data protection laws outside the United States prohibit or impose burdens on the transfer of personal data to countries, including the U.S., that have been deemed not to provide adequate privacy protections. Our obligations under these laws and regulations may be unclear, compliance can be costly, and penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. Increasingly, jurisdictions in which RingCentral does business are regulating digital services and emerging technologies such as AI in ways that go beyond traditional privacy and data protection legislation. The impact of this regulatory activity on the overall industry, business models and our operations are uncertain and could result in changed or new operational and administrative costs that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we experience or suspect a data security incident, we may incur significant costs associated with investigation, mitigation, remediation, and customer notifications. We may be unable to maintain complete control over data security, e.g., our customers may accidentally disclose their passwords. Additionally, if our third-party contractors experience a data security incident, or violate applicable laws or our policies, such incidents or violations may also put our customers information at risk, create the perception that our systems are not secure, and in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business. Regulation of personal information is evolving, and new laws could further impact how we handle personal information and/or could require us to incur additional compliance costs, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The scope and status of these obligations and restrictions is uncertain, changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As implementation and enforcement of these existing and new laws and regulations progress, we could experience additional costs associated with increased compliance burdens and contractual obligations, be required to localize certain personal data, and/or be at risk for increased regulatory fines or damages. Failure to comply with obligations and restrictions related to data privacy, data protection, and security in any jurisdiction in which we operate could subject us to regulatory investigations, lawsuits, substantial fines, sanctions, civil and criminal penalties, damages (including statutory damages), consent decrees, injunctions, adverse publicity, reputational damage, and other losses. Further, our actual compliance, our customers perception of our compliance, costs of compliance with such regulations, and obligations and customer concerns regarding their own compliance obligations (whether factual or in error) may limit the use and adoption of our subscriptions and reduce overall demand. Even the perception of privacy-related concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our subscriptions in certain industries. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Accusations of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business. There has been substantial litigation in the areas in which we operate regarding intellectual property rights. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties proprietary rights. Accusations and lawsuits like these, whether against us or our customers, resellers, GSPs, strategic partners, or others, may require significant time and expense to defend, may negatively affect customer relationships, may divert managements attention away from other aspects of our operations and, upon resolution, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We have agreed and will continue to agree to indemnify others for expenses and liability resulting from claimed intellectual property infringement by our solutions. In the past, we have settled infringement and misappropriation litigation brought against us; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to settle any future claims or, if we are able to settle any such claims, that the settlement will be on terms favorable to us. Our broad range of technology may increase the likelihood that third parties will claim that we or those we indemnify, infringe third 32 Table of Contents party intellectual property rights. If we, or any of our solutions, were found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party, we could be subject to liability for such infringement, which could be material. We could also be prohibited from using or selling certain subscriptions, prohibited from using certain processes, required to pay license fees for the technology, or required to redesign certain subscriptions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Certain technology necessary for us to provide our subscriptions may be protected by the intellectual property rights of others either now or in the future and we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable to us or at all. Our inability to obtain licenses to third party technology may: result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers; cause us to pay license fees for intellectual property we are deemed to have infringed; cause us to incur costs and devote valuable technical resources to redesigning our subscriptions; cause our cost of revenues to increase; cause us to manage or defend legal disputes, including litigation which may result in incremental cost, liabilities, reputational damage and distraction to our management team; cause us to accelerate expenditures to preserve existing revenues; cause existing or new vendors to require pre-payments or letters of credit; materially and adversely affect our brand in the marketplace and cause a substantial loss of goodwill; cause us to change our business methods or subscriptions; cause us to remove, cease to offer, and/or modify certain features and functions from our products; require us to cease certain business operations or offering certain subscriptions or features; and lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation. Our limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business. We rely, in part, on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret law to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and abroad. We typically enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, third-party contractors, customers, and vendors in an effort to control access to, use of, and distribution of our technology, software, documentation, and other information. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of such unauthorized use or disclosure, and it may be possible for a third party to legally reverse engineer, copy, or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. In addition, improper disclosure of trade secret information by our current or former employees, consultants, third-party contractors, customers, or vendors to the public or others who could make use of the trade secret information would likely preclude that information from being protected as a trade secret. We also rely, in part, on patent law to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and internationally. As of December 31, 2024, our intellectual property portfolio included 478 issued patents, including patents acquired from strategic partnership transactions, which expire between 2025 and 2042. As of December 31, 2024, we also had 75 patent applications pending examination in the U.S. and 24 patent applications pending examination in foreign jurisdictions, all of which are related to U.S. applications. We cannot predict whether such pending patent applications will result in issued patents or whether any issued patents will effectively protect our intellectual property. Even if a pending patent application results in an issued patent, the patent may be invalidated or may be circumvented by others. Further, we have in the past and may in the future "prune" our patent portfolio by not continuing to renew some of our patents in some jurisdictions or may decide to divest some of our patents. The unlicensed use of our brand, including through the registration of domain names, by third parties could harm our reputation, cause confusion among our customers and impair our ability to market our solutions and subscriptions. We have registered numerous trademarks and service marks and have applied for registration of additional trademarks and service marks and have acquired a large number of domain names in and outside the U.S. to establish and protect our brand names as part of our intellectual property strategy. If our applications receive objections or are successfully opposed by third parties, it will be difficult for us to prevent third parties from using our brand without our permission. Moreover, successful opposition to our 33 Table of Contents applications might encourage third parties to make additional oppositions or commence trademark infringement proceedings against us, which could be costly and time consuming to defend against. If we are not successful in protecting our trademarks, our trademark rights may be diluted and subject to challenge or invalidation, which could materially and adversely affect our brand. Despite our efforts to implement our intellectual property strategy, we may not be able to protect or enforce our proprietary rights in the U.S. or internationally (where effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited). Also, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology in a manner that does not infringe our intellectual property rights or design around any of our patents. Furthermore, detecting and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and resource-intensive. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management time and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our subscriptions. We use open source software in our platform on which we deliver our services. While we use tools designed to help us monitor and comply with the licenses of third-party open source software and protect our valuable proprietary source code, we may inadvertently use third-party open source software. There is a risk that the owners of the copyrights in such software may claim that such licenses impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our services. If such owners prevail in such claim, we could be required to make the source code for our proprietary software (which contains our valuable trade secrets) generally available to third parties, including competitors, at no cost, to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our subscriptions, to re-engineer our technology, or to discontinue offering our subscriptions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or at all, any of which could cause us to discontinue offering our products, harm our reputation, result in customer losses or claims, increase our costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may require additional capital or need to restructure our existing debt to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges or unforeseen circumstances. If capital is not available to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. We intend to continue to make expenditures and investments to support the growth of our business and may require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financing activities to secure additional funds or restructure our existing debt. However, additional funds may not be available or we may not be able to restructure our existing debt when we need to on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Volatility in equity capital markets may materially and adversely affect our ability to fund our business through public or private sales of equity securities or debt restructuring. Fluctuating interest rates and/or instability in the banking and finance industries may reduce our access to debt capital. Our current debt agreements do contain and any future debt financing that we secure in the future may include restrictive covenants, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the Credit Agreement, Senior Notes Indenture and any additional credit facilities or debt agreements we may secure in the future may restrict us from being able to conduct our operations in a manner appropriate for our business and may restrict our growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any such restrictive covenants. In the event that we are unable to comply with these covenants in the future, we would seek an amendment or waiver of the covenants. We cannot assure you that any such waiver or amendment would be granted. In such event, we may be required to repay any or all of our existing borrowings, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow under our existing credit agreements, or obtain alternative funding arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, volatility in the credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain debt financing. The conversion of our outstanding Convertible Notes and any future issuances of other equity or any future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders, and any new equity or convertible debt securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our Class A Common Stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to 34 Table of Contents continue to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances could be significantly limited, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Servicing our debt, including the Notes and the Credit Agreement, may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business or the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Convertible Notes in cash, repurchases of the Notes as required following a fundamental change or change of control, as applicable, or to repay all of our indebtedness at maturity. As of December 31, 2024, we had $161.3 million principal amount of our 0% convertible senior notes due 2025 (the 2025 Convertible Notes) outstanding, $609.1 million principal amount of our 0% convertible senior notes due 2026 (the 2026 Convertible Notes and, together with the 2025 Convertible Notes, the Convertible Notes) outstanding and $400.0 million principal amount of our 8.500% senior notes due 2030 (the 2030 Senior Notes and, together with the Convertible Notes, the Notes) outstanding. As of December 31, 2024, we had no amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility and $370.0 million principal outstanding under our Term Loan. Subject to certain conditions, we may borrow additional amounts under the Credit Agreement, as amended, including up to $225.0 million under our existing Revolving Credit Facility, up to $75.0 million of additional Term Loans that are available until May 2, 2025, and $275.0 million of Term Loan Commitments available for draw until May 6, 2025. The Convertible Notes contain a conversion feature that allows holders to convert their Convertible Notes into shares of our Class A Common Stock as set forth in each of the indentures governing our Convertible Notes (the Convertible Notes Indentures). In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of the Convertible Notes will be entitled under the applicable Convertible Notes Indenture to convert such Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders of a series elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation in cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of such Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change or change of control, as applicable, before the applicable maturity date at a repurchase price as set forth in the Senior Notes Indenture or the Convertible Notes Indentures, as applicable, plus any accrued and unpaid interest or special interest thereon, if any, as set forth in the applicable Notes Indenture. In addition, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes of the applicable series, we will be required to make cash payments in respect of such Convertible Notes being converted, as set forth in the applicable Convertible Notes Indenture. Moreover, we will be required to repay the Notes of the applicable series in cash at their respective maturity unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased, as applicable. However, even though we entered into the Credit Agreement, we cannot assure you that we will have enough available cash on hand or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of such Notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to (i) such series of Convertible Notes being converted or (ii) such series of Notes at their respective maturity. Our ability to make required cash payments in connections with conversions of the Convertible Notes, repurchases of the Notes as required following a fundamental change or change of control, as applicable, to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes and any amounts borrowed under the Credit Agreement, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional debt financing or equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance any future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Additionally, if expectations around our ability to effectively manage and repay our debt obligations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed and our stock price could be volatile or decline. The Credit Agreement and the Senior Notes Indenture also contain, and any of our future debt agreements may also contain, restrictive covenants that may prohibit us from adopting some or any of these alternatives. For example, the Senior Notes Indenture contains restrictive covenants that may limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiary guarantors, to, among other things, create liens on certain assets to secure debt, grant a subsidiary guarantee of certain debt without also providing a guarantee of the 2030 Senior Notes, and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to, another person, and the Credit Agreement contains negative covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries ability to incur indebtedness, create liens, make investments, dispose of assets and make certain restricted payments. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under our indebtedness which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our debt and termination of the commitments under the Credit Agreement. 35 Table of Contents In addition, our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could: require a portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available to fund acquisitions, for working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes; make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry, and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund acquisitions, for working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes; make an acquisition of our company less attractive or more difficult; and limit our ability to repurchase capital stock or manage shareholder dilution. Any of these factors could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase. Our Credit Agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. On February 14, 2023, we entered into a Credit Agreement among us, the lenders from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and as collateral agent (as amended, the Credit Agreement). As of December 31, 2024, we had no amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility, $370.0 million principal outstanding under our Term Loan, and $75.0 million of Term Loan commitments available for draw until May 2, 2025 and $275.0 million of Term Loan Commitments available for draw until May 6, 2025. Any drawdown under the Credit Agreement is subject to compliance with the restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing the 2030 Senior Notes (the Senior Notes Indenture). Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to: incur and guarantee additional debt; incur liens; make acquisitions and other investments; dispose of assets; pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain subordinated debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; with respect to such subsidiaries, enter into agreements restricting their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our or such subsidiaries assets. Further, the Credit Agreement contains financial covenants that require compliance with a maximum total net leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, in each case tested at the end of each fiscal quarter. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities or react to market conditions, or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. In addition, our obligations to repay principal and interest on our indebtedness could make us vulnerable to economic or market downturns. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement; however, if an event of default occurs, the lenders may elect to terminate their commitments and accelerate our obligations under the Credit Agreement. Any such acceleration could result in an event of default under the Notes. We might not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Refer to Note 6 Long-Term Debt in the accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 36 Table of Contents The capped call transactions may affect the value of the 2026 Convertible Notes and our Class A Common Stock and we are subject to counterparty risk. In connection with the issuances of the 2026 Convertible Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with the option counterparties. The capped call transactions cover, subject to customary adjustments, the number of shares of our Class A Common Stock initially underlying the 2026 Convertible Notes. The capped call transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution as a result of conversion of the 2026 Convertible Notes. The counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our Class A Common Stock and/or purchasing or selling our Class A Common Stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the 2026 Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so on each exercise date of the capped call transactions). This activity could also cause or prevent an increase or a decrease in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. We do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the 2026 Convertible Notes or the shares of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, we do not make any representation that these transactions will not be discontinued without notice. In addition, the option counterparties are financial institutions and we will be subject to the risk that one or more of the counterparties may default or otherwise fail to perform, or may exercise certain rights to terminate, their obligations under the capped call transactions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under such transaction. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, it will increase if the market price or the volatility of our Class A Common Stock increases. Upon a default or other failure to perform, or a termination of obligations, by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our Class A Common Stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock and Our Charter Provisions The market price of our Class A Common Stock is likely to be volatile and could decline. The stock market in general, and the market for SaaS and other technology-related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price and trading volume for our Class A Common Stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and investors in our Class A Common Stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Factors that could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to fluctuate significantly include: our operating and financial performance and prospects and the performance of other similar companies including our strategic partners and GSPs; our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; conditions that impact demand for our subscriptions; the publics reaction to our press releases, financial guidance, and other public announcements, and filings with the SEC; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities or research analysts who track our Class A Common Stock; actual or perceived security breaches, or other privacy or cybersecurity incidents; market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; changes in government and other regulations; arrival and departure of key personnel; sales of common stock by us, our investors, or members of our management team; repurchases of Class A Common Stock by the Company; and 37 Table of Contents changes in general market, economic, and political conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and market price of our Class A Common Stock and may prevent investors from being able to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for their shares of our Class A Common Stock. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, stockholders often file securities class-action lawsuits against such company. Our involvement in a class-action lawsuit could divert our senior managements attention and, if adversely determined, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. For as long as the dual class structure of our common stock as contained in our charter documents is in effect, voting control will be concentrated with a limited number of stockholders that held our stock prior to our initial public offering, including primarily our founders and their affiliates, and limiting other stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class B Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class B Common Stock and, together with our Class A Common Stock, our common stock), has 10 votes per share, and our Class A Common Stock has one vote per share. Additionally, our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has voting power measured on an as-converted to Class A Common Stock basis. As of December 31, 2024, stockholders who hold shares of Class B Common Stock, including our founders and certain executive officers, and their affiliates, together hold approximately 55% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock, and our founders, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, together hold a majority of such voting power. As a result, for as long as the dual class structure remains in place, a small number of stockholders who acquired their shares prior to the completion of our initial public offering will continue to have significant influence over the management and affairs of our company and over the outcome of many matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. In addition, because of the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B Common Stock and Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class B Common Stock collectively will continue to control many matters submitted to our stockholders for approval even if their stock holdings represent less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future, and, as a result, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could be adversely affected. Future transfers by holders of Class B Common Stock will generally result in those shares converting to Class A Common Stock, which may have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B Common Stock who retain their shares in the long term. If, for example, Mr. Shmunis retains a significant portion of his holdings of Class B Common Stock for an extended period of time, he could, in the future, control a majority of the combined voting power of our capital stock. As a board member, Mr. Shmunis owes fiduciary duties to our stockholders and must act in good faith in a manner he reasonably believes to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a stockholder, Mr. Shmunis is generally entitled to vote his shares in his own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally. We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future and plan to, instead, retain any earnings to finance our operations and growth. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. Because we have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investors investment in our company will be if the market price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates and the investor sells its shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our Class A Common Stock that will prevail in the market will ever exceed the price that an investor pays. The holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are generally entitled to vote with the holders of our Class A Common Stock, which reduces the relative voting power of holders of our Class A Common Stock, and the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have certain separate consent rights. The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are generally entitled to vote with the holders of our Class A Common Stock on an as-converted basis, which reduces the relative voting power of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. However, the approval of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (voting together as a separate class) is required in order for us to take certain actions, including certain actions that, among other things, would have an adverse effect, in any material respect, on the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power 38 Table of Contents of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or the holders thereof. As a result, the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may in the future have the ability to influence the outcome of certain matters affecting our governance and capitalization. Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has certain rights that are preferential to the rights of our common stock, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have the right to receive dividends and distributions of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business before any payment may be made to holders of our common stock. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically be redeemed by us for a price equal to $1,000 per share. These dividend and redemption obligations could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and holders of our common stock. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase programs will be fully implemented or that they will enhance long-term stockholder value. Our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program. We plan to fund repurchases under this program from our future cash flow generation, as well as from additional potential sources of cash including capped calls associated with the Convertible Notes. Under this program, share repurchases may be made at our discretion from time to time in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions, or other means. This program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares of our Class A Common Stock. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, we repurchased approximately $316.9 million of our Class A Common Stock under this program. The timing and number of any future shares repurchased under this program will be determined by our management and will depend on a variety of factors, including stock price, trading volume, and general business and market conditions. Our board of directors will review this program periodically and may authorize adjustments of its terms, if appropriate. As a result, there can be no guarantee around the timing or volume of our share repurchases. This program could affect the price of our Class A Common Stock, increase volatility and diminish our cash reserves. This program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. Refer to Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware corporate law could make an acquisition of us more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders (subject to certain consent rights of the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock), up to 100,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, 200,000 share of which are currently designated as Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; require that, once our outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock represent less than a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of our board of directors, or our Chief Executive Officer; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before any meeting of stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; provide that vacancies or other unfilled seats on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; state that the approval of the holders of a supermajority of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock is required to amend certain provisions of our bylaws and our certificate of incorporation; and reflect two classes of common stock, as discussed above. 39 Table of Contents These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder without obtaining specified approvals. If research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our Class A Common Stock, our stock price and trading volume may decline. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock will depend in part on the research and reports that research analysts publish about us and our business. If we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our Class A Common Stock may decline. If one or more of the research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A Common Stock may decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Risks Related to Taxation and Accounting Matters Changes in effective tax rates, or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the research and development tax credit laws; expiration or non-utilization of net operating loss carryforwards; tax effects of share-based compensation; expansion into new jurisdictions; potential challenges to and costs related to implementation and ongoing operation of our intercompany arrangements; changes in tax laws and regulations and accounting principles, or interpretations or applications thereof; and certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions. Any changes in our effective tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. We are subject to tax laws, regulations, and policies of the U.S. federal, state, and local governments and of comparable taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws, as well as other factors, could cause us to experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rates and otherwise adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. For example, certain jurisdictions, such as Canada, the United Kingdom and France, have enacted a digital services tax on revenues derived from digital activities in those jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions have enacted or are considering enacting similar laws in the future. In addition, the United States introduced a 1% excise tax on stock buybacks, which could increase the cost to us of implementing our share repurchase programs or repurchasing our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and a 15% alternative minimum tax on adjusted financial statement income. Many countries, including the United States, and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the OECD) are also actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business. As an example, on October 8, 2021, the OECD announced the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, which agreed to a two-pillar solution to address tax challenges arising from digitalization of the economy. On December 20, 2021, the OECD released Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax rules, which contemplate a global minimum tax rate of 15% for certain large multinational companies. On December 15, 2022, the European Union (the EU) Member States formally adopted the EUs Pillar Two Directive and various countries have enacted or are in the process of enacting legislation on these rules. The 40 Table of Contents Pillar Two legislative changes, when enacted by various countries in which we do business, are not anticipated to have a material impact on our tax liabilities. We will continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments to assess potential impacts that Pillar Two rules may have on our business, operating results and financial condition. Any further developments or changes in U.S. federal or state, or international tax laws or tax rulings could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rates, tax payments, tax credits, or incentives will not be adversely affected by these or other developments or changes in law. We may be subject to liabilities on past sales for taxes, surcharges, and fees and our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect such amounts in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. We believe we collect state and local sales tax and use, excise, utility user, and ad valorem taxes, fees, or surcharges in all relevant jurisdictions in which we generate sales, based on our understanding of the applicable laws in those jurisdictions. Such tax, fees and surcharge laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction, and the application of such taxes to e-commerce businesses, such as ours, is complex and continuing to develop. There is uncertainty as to what constitutes sufficient in state presence for a state to levy taxes, fees, and surcharges for sales made over the Internet, and after the U.S. Supreme Courts ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, U.S. states may require an online retailer with no in-state property or personnel to collect and remit sales tax on sales to the states residents, which may permit wider enforcement of sales tax collection requirements. Therefore, the application of existing or future laws relating to indirect taxes to our business, or the audit of our business and operations with respect to such taxes or challenges of our positions by taxing authorities, could result in increased tax liabilities for us or our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our relationships with our customers. Further, we have in the past and may in the future be audited by federal, state, and local tax authorities which could lead to liabilities for past unpaid taxes, fines, and penalties. We may be unable to use some or all of our net operating loss and research credit carryforwards, which could materially and adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2024, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) of $1.4 billion, which does not expire. Additionally, we have state net operating loss carryforwards of $1.2 billion that began to expire in 2025. We also have federal research tax credit carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2028. Realization of these net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards depends on future income, and there is a risk that our existing carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the potential carryforward limitations described above, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code), as amended, our ability to utilize NOLs or other tax attributes, such as research tax credits, in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an ownership change. An ownership change generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders, who each own at least 5% of our stock, increase their collective ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. In addition, in June 2024 California enacted legislation that limits the use of NOLs and tax credits for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2024, and before January 1, 2027, which may adversely affect our company if it earns taxable income in the impacted tax years. No material deferred tax assets have been recognized on our Consolidated Balance Sheets related to these NOLs, as they are fully offset by a valuation allowance. If we have previously had, or have in the future, one or more Section 382 ownership changes, including in connection with our initial public offering or another offering, or if we do not generate sufficient taxable income, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs, even if we achieve profitability. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more taxes than if we were able to fully utilize our NOLs. This could materially and adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. If our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it may adversely affect investor confidence in our company. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, is required to and has issued an attestation report as of December 31, 2024. While management concluded internal control over financial reporting was at a reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2024, there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our 41 Table of Contents internal controls are effective. As a result, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal