Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (this MD&A) should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and with our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, as included in our 2023 Annual Report. This MD&A contains statements of managements beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding our future business, and any statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA, which are made in reliance of the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act, Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and the PSLRA. Such statements express managements beliefs, opinions, projections and expectations regarding future events and circumstances, based on information available to management as of the date of this Quarterly Report, and are subject to risks and uncertainties, and our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Further, these forward-looking statements should not be construed either as assurances of performance or as promises of a given course of action. You should review the sections of this Quarterly Report entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially and potentially adversely from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this MD&A and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Unless otherwise indicated, amounts are stated in thousands of U.S. Dollars except for share, per share, and miner amounts, and Bitcoin quantities, prices, and hash rate. Business Overview: We are a vertically integrated Bitcoin mining company principally engaged in enhancing our capabilities to mine Bitcoin in support of the Bitcoin blockchain. Our Rockdale Facility is believed to be the largest Bitcoin mining facility in North America, as measured by developed capacity, and we are currently evaluating further growing its capacity. Additionally, we are developing the Corsicana Facility, a second large-scale Bitcoin mining facility, which, upon completion, is expected to have approximately 1.0 GW of capacity available for our own Bitcoin Mining activities. We operate in an environment which is constantly evolving based on the proliferation of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in general. A significant component of our strategy is to effectively and efficiently allocate capital between opportunities that generate the highest return on investment. Industry Trends The price of Bitcoin increased during the first quarter of 2024 due to a new source of demand, the eleven Bitcoin spot Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) approved to begin trading by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) on January 11, 2024. Significant interest in the Bitcoin ETFs followed their introduction. One such ETF earned recognition as the fastest ETF ever to surpass $10 billion in assets under management since its launch. The ETFs, as an investment vehicle, provided a new access point for investors to gain exposure to Bitcoin through more traditional methods resulting in Bitcoin ETFs seeing a combined net inflow of approximately $12.1 billion during the first quarter of trading. During 2023 and the first quarter of 2024, the Bitcoin mining industry saw record amounts of growth as the price of Bitcoin increased from the lows experienced in early 2023. A renewed opportunity to access capital markets to fund growth partly from a growing Bitcoin price led to an unprecedent expansion in mining operations as the size of computing power on the network, as measured by total hashrate, more than doubled. Many Bitcoin mining companies heavily invested in infrastructure, as well as upgrading and expanding mining fleets in advance of the Bitcoin network halving. We expect competition within the mining industry to continue as long as Bitcoin prices remain elevated or increase further. The Bitcoin mining industry has recently experienced an increase in transaction fees on the Bitcoin network, as well as an increase in overall demand in Bitcoin. Various protocols on the Bitcoin network gained popularity during 2023, and at various times temporarily resulted in a significant increase in the transaction fee paid to add a certain Bitcoin transaction to the blockchain. These transaction fees are volatile in nature, but are paid directly to miners and are representative of interest in transacting in Bitcoin. Transaction fees are packaged with the block subsidy issued by the Bitcoin network to combine for the total reward paid to miners upon solving a block. 23 Table of Contents The Bitcoin subsidy issued by the Bitcoin network for solving a block is subject to periodic incremental halving. The network halving is a preprogrammed, fixed process of the Bitcoin network where the Bitcoin subsidy for solving a block received by miners is reduced by half approximately every four years. The network halving is a process designed to implement a periodic decreasing schedule of the issuance of new Bitcoin into the market which results in a predictable and controlled inflationary rate. The network halving will continue to occur on this schedule until the amount of Bitcoin in existence reaches the cap of 21.0 million. Historically, many Bitcoin miners have been a source of selling pressure on Bitcoin as miners have sold their production to fund operations. After each halving, the decrease in the subsidy provided to miners from the Bitcoin network may lead to fewer rewards for miners and thus may result in a decrease in the supply of bitcoin sold by miners into the market. The network halving occurred in April 2024, cutting the subsidy from 6.25 to 3.125 Bitcoin per block. Prior to the halving event, shifts in strategy by prominent Bitcoin miners focused on implementing vertically integrated business models whereby Bitcoin miners own and operate their own facilities rather than renting out space from a third-partys data center. Vertical integration provides additional control over operational outcomes as well as better management of any input costs such as power and overhead fees. Flexibility, and the ability to manage expenses becomes increasingly important as the amount of competition on the Bitcoin network expands and the subsidy in Bitcoin provided by the network contracts. Network difficulty, which is a measure of how hard it is for miners to solve a block on the Bitcoin blockchain (and, thus, earn a mining reward), is determined by the networks total hash rate (i.e., the total computational power devoted to solving a block), which is adjusted every 2,016 blocks (with a new block being added approximately every ten minutes). Therefore, as more miners join the network and the networks global hash rate increases, its difficulty will increase. Conversely, if miners leave the network and its hash rate decreases, its difficulty will decrease. We have observed that, when the market price for Bitcoin experiences a sustained increase (as it did across 2023), new miners are introduced onto the Bitcoin network, increasing its network hash rate, and network difficulty has increased as a result. Thus, despite increasing our hash rate by approximately 18% from March 31, 2023, to 2024, the increased network difficulty following increased network hash rate across the periods resulted in a decrease in the number of Bitcoin we mined of approximately 35.5%, when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2024, to the same period in 2023. Accordingly, as market prices for Bitcoin increase and more miners and hash rate are drawn onto the Bitcoin network, network difficulty will continue to increase, meaning existing miners like the Company will need to increase their hash rate to maintain and improve their chances of earning a Bitcoin mining reward. To do this, we continually seek out new Bitcoin mining capacity, including through our acquisition and development of new Bitcoin mining facilities (such as the Corsicana Facility) and the electricity supply and distribution facilities to service them, as well as other strategic growth opportunities. Further, we have adopted new and improved technology to increase both our mining power and efficiency, including our industrial-scale adoption of immersion cooling and our strategic acquisitions of large quantities of the newest, most powerful and most efficient miners available. The Company has led the industry by focusing on a vertically integrated business model since 2021. We continue to focus on building long-term stockholder value by taking strategic actions to further vertically integrate our business at the current Rockdale Facility and developing Corsicana Facility. Management believes a focus on vertical integration will positively affect each of our business segments by providing increased capacity for our Bitcoin Mining operations, more opportunity for implementing our proprietary power strategy, and by capitalizing on supply chain efficiencies garnered through our Engineering segment. We continue to focus on deploying our efficient Bitcoin mining fleet, at scale, while realizing the benefits of being an owner and operator of our Bitcoin Mining facilities. We anticipate the Bitcoin network will continue to see increased competition and that 2024 will be a period of consolidation in the Bitcoin mining industry. Further, given our relative position, liquidity, and absence of any significant long-term debt, we believe we are well positioned to benefit from such consolidation. We are continuously evaluating opportunities which we may decide to undertake as part of our strategic growth initiatives; however, we can offer no assurances that any strategic opportunities which we decide to undertake will be achieved on the schedule or within the budget we anticipate, if at all, and our business and financial results may change significantly as a result of such strategic growth. Bitcoin Mining We own and operate one of the largest Bitcoin Mining operations in North America. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we continued to deploy miners at our Rockdale Facility and continued development activities at the Corsicana Facility, with the objective of increasing our operational efficiency and performance in the future. As of March 31, 2024, our Bitcoin Mining business segment had a total deployed hash rate capacity of approximately 12.4 EH/s. We anticipate achieving a total self-mining hash rate capacity of approximately 31 EH/s by the end of 2024. 24 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we mined 1,364 Bitcoin, which represented a decrease of 751 Bitcoin from the 2,115 Bitcoin we mined during the three months ended March 31, 2023 due primarily to the significant increase in the Bitcoin network difficulty, which has more than doubled since January 2023. During 2023, we entered into two purchase orders under the Master Agreement to acquire new immersion miners from MicroBT with a total hash rate of 25.6 EH/s, for a total purchase price of approximately $453.4 million, subject to downward price adjustment as provided by the Master Agreement. These new miners are primarily for use at our new Corsicana Facility, which commenced operations in April 2024. Delivery of these miners began in 2023, with all miners expected to be received and deployed by mid-2025. The Master Agreement also provides us with four annual options to purchase additional miners, on the same or better terms as the second purchase order executed under the Master Agreement, for a total hash rate of approximately 75.0 EH/s, assuming exercise of all four annual purchase options. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we executed an additional purchase order with MicroBT under the Master Agreement to acquire new air-cooled miners with a total hash rate of 5.9 EH/s, for a total purchase price of approximately $96.7 million. This purchase order is in addition to the four purchase options remaining under the Master Agreement. We plan to deploy these miners primarily at the Rockdale Facility, both to replace existing underperforming miners and to fill excess capacity available in the facility. Delivery of these miners is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2024, with deployment commencing upon delivery. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Bitcoin Mining revenue was approximately $74.6 million. Data Center Hosting In 2023, we made the decision to stop pursuing new hosting contracts and end our legacy contracts, to focus on our self-mining efforts. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, all agreements with Data Center Hosting customers were terminated, and we have no plans to offer data center hosting services to new customers. We determined that such agreements, by themselves, were no longer material (based on revenue or profit) and, therefore, commencing for the three months ended March 31, 2024, we will no longer report Data Center Hosting as a separate reportable segment. Engineering Our Engineering business segment designs and manufacturers power distribution equipment and custom engineered electrical products that provide us with the ability to vertically integrate many of the critical electrical components and engineering services necessary for our Corsicana Facility development and Rockdale Facility expansions and to reduce our execution and counter-party risk in ongoing and future expansion projects. Engineering and other specialized talent employed in our Engineering business segment also allows us to continue to explore new methods to optimize and develop a best-in-class Bitcoin Mining operation and has been instrumental in the development of our industrial-scale immersion-cooled Bitcoin mining hardware. Our Engineering business segment also provides electricity distribution product design, manufacturing, and installation services primarily focused on large-scale commercial and governmental customers and serves a broad scope of clients across a wide range of markets including data center, power generation, utility, water, industrial, and alternative energy. Products are custom built to client and industry specifications. Engineering revenue is derived from the sale of custom products built to customers specifications under fixed-price contracts with one identified performance obligation. Engineering revenue is recognized over time as performance creates or enhances an asset with no alternative use, and for which we have an enforceable right to receive compensation as defined under the contract. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Engineering revenue was approximately $4.7 million. Global Logistics Global supply logistics have caused delays across all channels of distribution. We have also experienced delays in certain of our miner delivery schedules, our Engineering segments manufacturing and delivery schedule, and in our infrastructure development schedules, resulting from constraints on the globalized supply chains for miners, electricity distribution equipment and construction materials. Through the date of this Quarterly Report, we have been able to effectively and efficiently mitigate delivery delays to 25 Table of Contents avoid materially impacting our miner deployment schedule; however, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to mitigate any such delivery delays in the future. Additionally, the development of our new Corsicana Facility requires large quantities of construction materials, specialized electricity distribution equipment, and other component parts that are in high demand and can be difficult to source. To help mitigate the impacts of global supply chain constraints and increasing demand for these goods, including any inflationary pricing concerns that may result, we procured all the required components and materiel for development of the first 400 MW phase of the Corsicana Facility, and we have procured and already hold many of the components and materiel required for development of the next 600 MW phase of our development of the Corsicana Facility, as well as replacement components and parts for our existing systems, to help shorten the impact of potential damage to installed equipment. We continue to monitor developments in the global supply chain and assess their potential impact on our expansion plans. Summary of Riots Bitcoin Mining Results The following tables present additional information about our own Bitcoin Mining activities, including Bitcoin production and sales of the Bitcoin mined: Quantity Amounts Balance as of January 1, 2024 7,362 $ 311,178 Revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined 1,364 71,396 Change in Bitcoin receivable 7 (80) Proceeds from sale of Bitcoin (212) (9,518) Exchange of Bitcoin for employee compensation (31) (1,461) Change in fair value of Bitcoin 234,080 Balance as of March 31, 2024 8,490 $ 605,595 Quantity Amounts Balance as of January 1, 2023 6,974 $ 115,415 Revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined 2,115 48,023 Proceeds from sale of Bitcoin (1,975) (44,437) Exchange of Bitcoin for employee compensation (20) (459) Change in fair value of Bitcoin 83,504 Balance as of March 31, 2023 7,094 $ 202,046 Results of Operations Comparative Results for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 2023: Revenue Total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was $79.3 million and $73.2 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, total revenue consisted of our Bitcoin Mining revenue, Engineering revenue, and other revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, total revenue consisted of our Bitcoin Mining revenue, Data Center Hosting revenue, Engineering revenue, and other revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, Bitcoin Mining revenue was $74.6 million, and $48.0 million, respectively. The increase of $26.6 million was primarily due higher Bitcoin prices in the 2024 period, which averaged $52,343 per coin, as compared to $22,704 per coin for the 2023 period, which was partially offset by a decrease of 751 Bitcoin mined in the 2024 period as compared to the 2023 period, due primarily to the substantial increase in the Bitcoin network difficulty. Additionally, we continued employing our power strategy to significantly reduce overall power costs. As noted below, during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, we earned $5.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, in power credits, which were received in cash or credited against our power invoices, as a result of temporarily pausing our operations. The power credits equate to approximately 98 Bitcoin and 135 Bitcoin, respectively, as computed using the average daily Bitcoin prices for the applicable period. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, Engineering revenue was $4.7 million and $16.1 million, respectively. The decrease of $11.4 million was primarily attributable to supply chain constraints resulting in decreased receipts of materials, delaying 26 Table of Contents the completion of certain custom products, and, therefore, the recognition of revenue. Our custom electrical products such as switchgear and power distribution centers are used as important components in data center development and in power generation and distribution facilities, and there has been increased demand for these products due to the continued increase in data center construction by developers, as well as the continually increasing worldwide demand for power. Costs and expenses Cost of revenue for Bitcoin Mining for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was $41.1 million and $21.9 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $19.2 million. As a percentage of Bitcoin Mining revenue, Bitcoin Mining cost of revenue was 55.1% and 45.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cost of revenue for Bitcoin Mining consists primarily of direct production costs of Bitcoin mining operations, including electricity, labor, and insurance, but excluding depreciation and amortization, which are separately stated. The increase was primarily due to the increase in Bitcoin mining capacity at the Rockdale Facility, which requires more headcount and direct costs necessary to maintain and support our expanded Bitcoin mining operations, as well as the absorption of other costs previously included in our Data Center Hosting segment. As noted below, during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, we earned $5.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, in power credits to be credited against our power invoices, as a result of temporarily pausing our operations to participate in ERCOTs Demand Response Service Programs. Our fixed-price power purchase contracts enable us to strategically curtail our mining operations and participate in these programs, which significantly lower our cost to mine Bitcoin. These credits are recognized in Power curtailment credits on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, outside of cost of revenue, but significantly reduce our overall cost to mine Bitcoin. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Cost of revenue for Bitcoin Mining consisted of the following: Power $ 32,532 Compensation 2,645 Insurance on miners 1,735 Ground rent and related water and property tax 1,332 Other 2,840 Total Bitcoin Mining cost of revenue $ 41,084 Bitcoin Mining cost of revenue amounts for the three months ended March 31, 2023 are not provided as they would not be comparable to the 2024 amounts presented above due to the impact of absorbing costs previously included in the Data Center Hosting segment. Cost of revenue for Engineering for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was $6.0 million and $15.6 million, respectively, a decrease of approximately $9.6 million. The costs consisted primarily of direct materials and labor, as well as indirect manufacturing costs. Consistent with the causes of decreased Engineering revenue noted above, the decrease was primarily due to decreased receipts of materials resulting from increased competition for direct materials due to supply chain constraints. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, were $57.7 million and $12.7 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $45.0 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of stock-based compensation, legal and professional fees, and other personnel and related costs. The increase was primarily due to increases in stock compensation expenses of $34.3 million related to new grants under our long-term incentive program, compensation expenses of $4.4 million as a result of hiring additional employees to support our ongoing growth, increased legal and professional fees of $2.5 million primarily related to ongoing litigation and public company compliance, and $3.6 million for other costs primarily attributable to ongoing growth. Depreciation and amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was $32.3 million and $59.3 million, respectively, a decrease of approximately $27.0 million. The decrease was primarily due to the change in the estimated lives of our Bitcoin miners from 2 years to 3 years. The change in fair value of Bitcoin for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, were gains of $234.1 million and $83.5 million, respectively, and were recognized to adjust the fair value of our Bitcoin held. 27 Table of Contents The change in fair value of our derivative asset for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was a gain of $20.2 million and a loss of $5.8 million, respectively, and was recorded to adjust the fair value of our PPA, which was classified as a derivative asset and measured at fair value. The changes in fair value were due to changes in future power prices over the applicable period. Power curtailment credits for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, were $5.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, and represent sales of unused power under our PPA and participation in ancillary services under ERCOT Demand Response Services Programs. The amount of these credits varies from period to period depending on various factors impacting the supply of power to, and the demand for power on, the ERCOT grid, such as weather and global fuel costs. Casualty-related charges (recoveries), net, were $(2.3) million and $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. In December 2022, the Rockdale Facility was damaged during severe winter storms in Texas, resulting in casualty-related charges being recognized in 2023. The income recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was the result of cash recoveries from insurance claims related to the December 2022 winter storms. Other income (expense) For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, total other income (expense) was $7.8 million and ($3.8) million, respectively. The income recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was primarily attributable to interest income earned as a result of higher cash balances and increased interest rates. The loss incurred in the same period in 2023 was attributable to interest expense. Non-GAAP Measures In addition to financial measures presented under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we consistently evaluate our use of and calculation of non-GAAP financial measures such as Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is computed as net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure defined as EBITDA adjusted to eliminate the effects of certain non-cash and/or non-recurring items that do not reflect our ongoing strategic business operations, which management believes results in a performance measurement that represents a key indicator of our core business operations of Bitcoin mining. The adjustments include fair value adjustments such as derivative power contract adjustments, equity securities value changes, and non-cash stock-based compensation expense, in addition to financing and legacy business income and expense items. We believe Adjusted EBITDA can be an important financial measure because it allows management, investors, and our board of directors to evaluate and compare our operating results, including our return on capital and operating efficiencies, from period-to-period by making such adjustments. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is used as a performance metric for share-based compensation. Adjusted EBITDA is provided in addition to, and should not be considered to be a substitute for, or superior to, net income, the most comparable measure under GAAP to Adjusted EBITDA. Further, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to revenue growth, net income, diluted net income per share or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider this financial measure either in isolation or as a substitute for analyzing our results as reported under GAAP. 28 Table of Contents The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to Net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP financial measure: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net income (loss) $ 211,777 $ 18,513 Interest (income) expense (7,805) 3,830 Income tax expense (benefit) (22) (4,969) Depreciation and amortization 32,343 59,340 EBITDA 236,293 76,714 Adjustments: Stock-based compensation expense 32,000 (2,296) Change in fair value of derivative asset (20,232) 5,778 Casualty-related charges (recoveries), net (2,300) 1,526 Other (income) expense (8) License fees (24) (24) Adjusted EBITDA $ 245,729 $ 81,698 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2024, we had net working capital of approximately $692.5 million, which included cash and cash equivalents of $688.5 million. We reported net income of $211.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, which included $260.6 million in non-cash gains, primarily consisting of the change in fair value of Bitcoin of $234.1 million, revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined revenue of $71.4 million, and the change in fair value of the derivative asset of $20.2 million, partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $32.3 million and stock-based compensation of $32.0 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we sold 212 Bitcoin for proceeds of approximately $9.5 million. We monitor our balance sheet on an ongoing basis and evaluate the level of Bitcoin retained from monthly production in consideration of our cash requirements for ongoing operations and expansion. Contractual Commitments (Miners and Related Equipment) Through March 31, 2024, we have paid approximately $305.9 million in total deposits and payments to MicroBT for the purchase of miners. The remaining commitment of approximately $252.8 million is due in installments through approximately April 2025 based on the estimated miner delivery schedule. Total payments of $202.3 million and $50.4 million are expected to be made in 2024 and 2025, respectively. Through March 31, 2024, the Company paid $45.3 million in total deposits and payments to Midas for the purchase of immersion cooling systems. The remaining commitment of approximately $6.7 million is due in installments in early 2024, based on the estimated delivery schedule. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company paid $10.8 million in deposits for the purchase of 180 immersion cooling systems for the Corsicana Facility. The remaining commitment of approximately $16.2 million is due in installments through the second quarter of 2024, based on the estimated delivery schedule. 29 Table of Contents Development of the Corsicana Facility In 2022, we announced our planned development of the Corsicana Facility, our second large-scale Bitcoin mining facility located on a 265-acre site in Navarro County, Texas. The Corsicana Facility is expected, upon completion, to have 1.0 GW of developed capacity for Bitcoin mining, with an additional 200 MW of electrical capacity available for development, at our discretion, which is securely supplied with power by a substation being developed for us on the premises that will be interconnected with the nearby Navarro Switch. The strategic decision to locate the Corsicana Facility next to the Navarro Switch was made to limit electricity lost in transmission and maximize the efficiency of our substations power distribution facilities. The initial phase of the development of the Corsicana Facility involved the construction of a 400 MW substation and an equal amount of immersion-cooled Bitcoin mining infrastructure spread across multiple buildings, as well as construction of various utilities, offices, warehouses, and infrastructure to support the facilitys operations, with operations commencing in April 2024, following commissioning of the substation. We estimate that the total cost of the first phase of the development will be approximately $362.0 million, which is scheduled to be invested through the second quarter of 2024. Through March 31, 2024, we had incurred costs of approximately $270.8 million related to the development of the Corsicana Facility, which consisted of $10.1 million for land, $256.0 million of initial developments costs and equipment, and a $4.7 million deposit for future power usage. We expect to incur costs associated with development of this first 400 MW phase of the Corsicana Facility of approximately $91.2 million through 2024. Revenue from Operations Bitcoin Mining We expect to generate ongoing revenue from Bitcoin rewards from our Bitcoin Mining operations and our ability to liquidate Bitcoin rewards at future values will be regularly evaluated to generate cash for operations. Generating Bitcoin rewards which exceed our production and overhead costs will determine our ability to report profit margins related to such Bitcoin mining operations, although accounting for our reported profitability is significantly complex. Furthermore, regardless of our ability to generate proceeds from the sale of our Bitcoin produced from our Bitcoin Mining business, we may elect to continue our strategy of holding the Bitcoin rewards we earn from our Bitcoin Mining operations, and we may need to raise additional capital in the form of equity or debt to fund our operations and pursue our business strategy. The ability to raise funds through the sale of equity, debt financings, or the sale of Bitcoin to maintain our operations is subject to many risks and uncertainties and, even if we were successful, future equity issuances or convertible debt offerings could result in dilution to our existing stockholders, and any future debt or debt securities may contain covenants that limit our operations or ability to enter into certain transactions. Our ability to realize revenue through Bitcoin production and successfully convert Bitcoin into cash or fund overhead with Bitcoin is subject to a number of risks, including regulatory, financial and business risks, many of which are beyond our control. Additionally, we have observed significant historical volatility in the market price of Bitcoin and, as such, future prices cannot be predicted. Engineering Substantially all engineering revenue is derived from the sale of custom products built to customers specifications under fixed-price contracts. Revenue is recognized over time as performance creates or enhances an asset with no alternative use, and for which we have an enforceable right to receive compensation as defined under the contract. The length of time required to complete a custom product varies but is typically between four and 12 weeks. Customers are typically required to make periodic progress payments based on contractually agreed-upon milestones. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our Bitcoin Mining and Engineering operations when needed or secure additional sources of funding, it may be necessary to significantly reduce our current rate of spending or explore other strategic alternatives. 30 Table of Contents Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $57.9 million, which primarily consisted of the net income of $211.8 million and proceeds from the sale of Bitcoin of $9.5 million, offset by net income on non-cash reconciling items of $260.6 million and net cash outflows of $18.6 million due to changes in operating asset and liabilities. The non-cash net income primarily consisted of the change in the fair value of Bitcoin of $234.1 million, revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined of $71.4 million, and the change in fair value of the derivative asset of $20.2 million, partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $32.3 million and stock-based compensation of $32.0 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by operating activities was $32.4 million, which primarily consisted of the net income of $18.5 million, proceeds from the sale of Bitcoin of $44.4 million, and net cash outflows of $41.1 million due to changes in operating asset and liabilities, partially offset by net income on non-cash reconciling items of $71.7 million. The non-cash net income primarily consisted of the change in the fair value of Bitcoin of $83.5 million and revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined of $48.0 million, partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $59.3 million. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $194.5 million, which primarily consisted of payments for deposits on equipment of $139.3 million and purchases of property and equipment of $57.3 million, both primarily attributable to the ongoing development of the Corsicana Facility and continued deployment of miners. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $74.0 million, which primarily consisted of purchases of property and equipment of $51.0 million, primarily attributable to the expansion of the Rockdale Facility and continued deployment of miners, and the payment of security deposits of $23.0 million related to our PPA. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by financing activities was $343.7 million, which primarily consisted of net proceeds from the issuance of shares under the ATM program of $345.7 million to be used to fund ongoing growth, partially offset by the repurchase of shares of common stock withheld to satisfy employee withholding taxes of $2.0 million in connection with the settlement of vested equity awards granted under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.9 million, which primarily consisted of the repurchase of shares of common stock withheld to satisfy employee withholding taxes of $1.3 million in connection with the settlement of vested equity awards granted under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. Critical Accounting Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates from those detailed in our 2023 Annual Report, except for those accounting subjects described under the heading Significant Accounting Policies in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Notes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements We have evaluated all recently issued accounting pronouncements and do not believe any such pronouncements currently have, and do not expect such pronouncements to have, a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements on a prospective basis. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.