Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed interim consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and with our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, as included in our 2022 Annual Report. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion includes forward-looking statements about our business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for our business, which are made in reliance of the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act, Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and the PSLRA. These statements represent projections, beliefs and expectations based on current circumstances and conditions, are subject to risks and uncertainties, and our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Further, these forward-looking statements should not be construed either as assurances of performance or as promises of a given course of action. You should review the sections of this Quarterly Report entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially and potentially adversely from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Business Overview: We are a vertically integrated Bitcoin mining company principally engaged in enhancing our capabilities to mine Bitcoin in support of the Bitcoin blockchain. We also provide comprehensive and critical infrastructure for institutional-scale hosted clients to mine Bitcoin at our Rockdale Facility. Currently, the Rockdale Facility has 700 MW in total developed capacity for our Bitcoin mining and data center hosting services for institutional-scale hosted clients. Our Rockdale Facility is believed to be the largest Bitcoin mining facility in North America, as measured by developed capacity, and we are currently evaluating further growing its capacity. Additionally, we are developing the Corsicana Facility, a second large-scale Bitcoin mining data center facility, which, upon completion, is expected to have approximately one gigawatt of capacity available for our own Bitcoin mining and data center hosting services for institutional-scale hosted clients. We operate in an environment which is constantly evolving based on the proliferation of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in general. A significant component of our strategy is to effectively and efficiently allocate capital between opportunities that generate the highest return on investment. Industry Trends During 2022, we observed several companies in the Bitcoin ecosystem experience significant challenges and initiate bankruptcy proceedings due to the significant decline in the price of Bitcoin and other national and global macroeconomic factors. We anticipate this trend will likely continue as companies attempt to shift their business models to operate on significantly compressed margins. The dramatic increase in the price of Bitcoin observed in the market during prior years caused many companies to over-leverage themselves, thus operating in an unsustainable way given the recent variability in the price of Bitcoin. Riot chose to refrain from engaging in debt-financing activities during this period and, as a result, has not been subject to the significant debt-service shortfalls some of our competitors are experiencing. Despite such challenges in the ecosystem, Riot continues to focus on building long-term stockholder value by taking strategic action to vertically integrate its business, expanding the Rockdale Facility and developing the Corsicana Facility. Management believes this focus will positively affect each of Riots three business segments by providing more capacity for its Bitcoin Mining and Data Center Hosting, and by capitalizing on supply chain efficiencies garnered through its Engineering segment. As we grow our business, we continue to focus on deploying our efficient Bitcoin mining fleet, at scale, while realizing the benefits of being an owner and operator of our Bitcoin Mining and Data Center Hosting facilities. We anticipate companies in our industry will continue to experience challenges, and that 2023 will continue to be a period of consolidation in the Bitcoin mining industry, and, given our relative position, liquidity and absence of long-term debt, we believe we are positioned in the competitive landscape, to benefit from such consolidation. As a result of any strategic action undertaken by us, our business and financial results may change significantly. We are continuously evaluating strategic opportunities which we may decide to undertake as part of our strategic growth initiatives; however, we can offer no assurances that any strategic opportunities which we decide to undertake will be achieved on the schedule or within the budget we anticipate, if at all, in our competitive and evolving industry. The recent shutdowns of certain digital asset exchanges and trading platforms due to fraud or business failure, has negatively impacted confidence in the digital asset industry as a whole and led to increased oversight and scrutiny on the industry. We did not have any exposure to any digital asset lenders or exchanges who have declared bankruptcy or have been suspended. We only hold 22 Table of Contents Bitcoin that we have mined and do not sell or redeem any Bitcoin for any other parties. Our Bitcoin is held in cold storage wallets by a well-known third-party digital asset-focused custodian. We also sell our Bitcoin using our custodians services. In March 2023, Silvergate Capital Corporation, based in La Jolla, California, the holding company for Silvergate Bank (Silvergate Bank), which was primarily focused on the digital asset industry, announced its intent to wind down operations and voluntarily liquidate its holdings. Also in March, Silicon Valley Bank, based in Santa Clara, California (Silicon Valley Bank) and Signature Bank, based in New York, New York (Signature Bank) both closed and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was appointed receiver following their closures and transferred substantially all assets of the former banks to newly created, FDIC-operated bridge banks in an action to protect all depositors of the banks. In May 2023, First Republic Bank, based in San Francisco, California, was closed and the FDIC sold substantially all of First Republic Banks assets to JP Morgan Chase & Co. Although we maintained certain operating accounts with Signature Bank prior to its closure, we have since transferred all of our deposits previously held with the bank to other banking institutions. We did not lose access to our accounts or experience interruptions in banking services, and suffered no losses with respect to its deposits at Signature Bank as a result of the banks closure. We did not have any banking relationships with Silicon Valley Bank, Silvergate Bank, or First Republic Bank, and currently hold our cash and cash equivalents at multiple banking institutions. Bitcoin Mining The Companys current focus is on its Bitcoin Mining operations, and during the three months ended March 31, 2023, we continued to deploy miners at our Rockdale Facility and continued development activities at the Corsicana Facility, with the objective of increasing the Companys operational efficiency and performance. As of March 31, 2023, our Bitcoin Mining business segment operated 94,176 ASIC miners, with a hash rate capacity of 10.5 EH/s, which excludes 17,040 miners currently offline as a result of damage experienced during severe winter storms in Texas. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we mined 2,115 Bitcoin, which represented an increase of 50.5% over the 1,405 Bitcoin we mined in the three months ended March 31, 2022. We anticipate achieving a total self-mining hash rate capacity of 12.5 EH/s in the second half of 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Bitcoin Mining revenue was approximately $48.0 million. Data Center Hosting Following our acquisition of Whinstone, we commenced an expansion of our Rockdale Facility to 700 MW, from its initial 300 MW of developed capacity at the time of acquisition. As of March 31, 2023, our 400 MW expansion at the Rockdale Facility had achieved multiple progress milestones while navigating the challenges with the current state of the global supply chain, including the completion of the substation expansion to 700 MW, and successful installation of the substation busbar and 400 MW of high-voltage transformers. One building is nearing completion in the second quarter of 2023, which, when completed, will finalize our Rockdale Facility expansion. Two of the four buildings are self-mining buildings dedicated to immersion-cooled Bitcoin mining. The expansion of our Rockdale Facility has provided capacity to enable us to deploy our current fleet of miners in a self-hosted facility, while allowing us to continue to operate and grow our Data Center Hosting business segment. We believe deploying our miners at the expanded Rockdale Facility offers many advantages for our Bitcoin mining operations, including allowing us to operate our miners without incurring third-party colocation services fees and to do so at the low fixed energy costs available to the Rockdale Facility under its long-term power supply agreement. Data Center Hosting revenue includes upfront payments, which we record as deferred revenue and generally recognize as services are provided. We provide energized space and operating and maintenance services to third-party mining companies who locate their mining hardware at our Rockdale Facility under long-term contracts. We account for these agreements as a single performance obligation for services being delivered in a series with delivery being measured by daily successful operation of the mining hardware. As such, we recognize revenue over the life of the contract as its series of performance obligations are met. The contracts are recognized in the amount for which we have the right to invoice because we elected the right to invoice practical expedient. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Data Center Hosting revenue was approximately $9.0 million. 23 Table of Contents Engineering Our Engineering business segment designs and manufacturers power distribution equipment and custom engineered electrical products that provide us with the ability to vertically integrate many of the critical electrical components and engineering services necessary for our Rockdale Facility expansion and to reduce our execution and counter-party risk in ongoing and future expansion projects. Engineering and other specialized talent employed in our Engineering business segment also allows us to continue to explore new methods to optimize and develop a best-in-class Bitcoin mining operation and has been instrumental in the development of our industrial-scale immersion-cooled Bitcoin mining hardware. Our Engineering business segment also provides electricity distribution product design, manufacture, and installation services primarily focused on large-scale commercial and governmental customers and serves a broad scope of clients across a wide range of markets including data center, power generation, utility, water, industrial, and alternative energy. Products are custom built to client and industry specifications. Additionally, we utilize an in-house field service and repair department. Engineering revenue is derived from the sale of custom products built to customers specifications under fixed-price contracts with one identified performance obligation. Engineering revenues are recognized over time as performance creates or enhances an asset with no alternative use, and for which the Company has an enforceable right to receive compensation as defined under the contract. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Engineering revenue was approximately $16.1 million. Global Logistics Global supply logistics have caused delays across all channels of distribution. Similarly, we have also experienced delays in certain of our miner delivery schedules and in our infrastructure development schedules due to constraints on the globalized supply chains for miners, electricity distribution equipment and construction materials. Through the date of this Quarterly Report, we have been able to effectively mitigate any delivery delays to avoid materially impacting our miner deployment schedule, however, there are no assurances we will be able to continue to mitigate any such delivery delays in the future. Additionally, the expansion of the Rockdale Facility and the development of our new Corsicana Facility requires large quantities of construction materials, specialized electricity distribution equipment and other component parts that can be difficult to source. We have procured and hold many of the required materials to help mitigate global supply logistic and pricing concerns. We continue to monitor developments in the global supply chain and assess their potential impact on our expansion plans. COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic was unprecedented and unpredictable, and its impact may continue to result in national and global economic disruption, which may adversely affect our business. Presently, the Company has not experienced and does not expect any material impact on its long-term strategic plans, its operations, or its liquidity due to the long-term impacts of COVID-19. We will monitor any future COVID-19 related developments and the possible effects on the Companys financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, and the industry. Inflation We have experienced, and are experiencing, the impact of domestic and global inflationary pressures largely outside of our control. This inflationary pressure impacts our cost structure by increasing the cost of materials, parts and labor, making both our operations and development more expensive for us, despite a continued focus on controlling our costs where possible. In addition, sustained inflationary pressures have led to central banks raising interest rates, raising the cost of debt financing, which may precipitate a broad-based macroeconomic slowdown, including a possible recession in the United States and in other key financial markets. Management is unable to accurately predict when, or if, these inflationary pressures will subside, or whether and to what extent a significant recession will arise following central banks efforts to constrain such inflationary pressures. As a result, management is unable to predict the impact of these inflationary pressures, or the possible follow-on conditions, on our business and results of operations, as well as our access to debt financing. See the discussion under the heading Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A of our 2022 Annual Report for additional discussion regarding potential impacts sustained elevated inflationary pressures may have on our operations and plans for expansion. 24 Table of Contents Summary of Bitcoin Mining Results The following tables presents additional information about our Bitcoin Mining activities, including Bitcoin production and sales of the Bitcoin mined: Quantity Amounts Balance as of January 1, 2023 6,974 $ 109,420 Revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined 2,115 48,023 Proceeds from sale of Bitcoin (1,975) (44,437) Exchange of Bitcoin for employee compensation (20) (459) Realized gain on sale of Bitcoin 13,775 Impairment of Bitcoin (4,472) Balance as of March 31, 2023 7,094 $ 121,850 Quantity Amounts Balance as of January 1, 2022 4,884 $ 150,593 Revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined 1,405 57,945 Proceeds from sale of Bitcoin (200) (9,418) Exchange of Bitcoin for employee compensation (27) (1,283) Realized gain on sale of Bitcoin 9,665 Impairment of Bitcoin (25,870) Balance as of March 31, 2022 6,062 $ 181,632 Results of Operations Comparative Results for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Revenues Total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was $73.2 million and $79.8 million, respectively, and consisted of our Bitcoin Mining revenue, Data Center Hosting revenue, Engineering revenue, and other revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, Bitcoin Mining revenue was $48.0 million, and $57.9 million, respectively. The decrease of $9.9 million was primarily due to lower Bitcoin values in the 2023 period, averaging $22,704 per coin, as compared to $41,241 per for the 2022 period. This was partially offset by an increase of 710 Bitcoin mined in the 2023 period as compared to the 2022 period. Additionally, the Company continued its effective employment of its proprietary power strategy to significantly reduce overall power costs. As noted below, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company earned $3.1 million in power credits, to be credited against its power invoices, as a result of temporarily pausing its operations. The power credits equate to approximately 137 Bitcoin, as computed by using the average daily closing Bitcoin prices on a monthly basis. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, the Company earned $2.6 million in power credits, or the equivalent of approximately 63 Bitcoin. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, Data Center Hosting revenue was $9.0 million, and $9.7 million, respectively. The decrease of $0.7 million was primarily due to lower revenue share from customers due to the lower Bitcoin values in the 2023 period, as noted above. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, Engineering revenue was $16.1 million and $12.1 million, respectively. The increase of $4.0 million was primarily attributable to an increase in data center development across the country. Our custom electrical products such as switchgear and power distribution centers are used as important components in data center development and there has been increased demand for these products due to the continued increase in data center construction by developers. Costs and expenses Cost of revenues for Bitcoin Mining for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was $21.9 million and $19.1 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $2.8 million. As a percentage of Bitcoin Mining revenue, cost of revenues totaled 45.6% and 33.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Cost of revenues consists primarily of direct production costs of Bitcoin mining operations, including electricity, labor, and insurance, but excluding depreciation and amortization, which are separately stated. The increase was primarily due to the increase in Bitcoin mining capacity at the Rockdale Facility, which requires more headcount and direct costs necessary to maintain and support the Bitcoin mining operations. As noted below, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company earned $3.1 million and $2.6 million, respectively, 25 Table of Contents in power credits to be credited against its power invoices, as a result of temporarily pausing its operations. These credits are recognized in power curtailment credits in the statements of operations, outside of cost of revenues, but significantly reduce the Companys overall cost to mine Bitcoin. When netting the power curtailment credits with the costs of revenues, the net costs as a percentage of Bitcoin Mining revenue were 41.6% and 31.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Cost of revenues for Data Center Hosting for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was $25.7 million and $15.0 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $10.7 million. The costs consisted primarily of direct power costs, with the balance primarily incurred for rent and compensation costs. The increase was primarily attributable to the significant increase in size of our Rockdale Facility, which has more than doubled since 2021. Cost of revenues for Engineering for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was $15.6 million and $11.5 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $4.0 million. The costs consisted primarily of direct materials and labor, as well as indirect manufacturing costs. The increase was primarily due to an increase in materials purchased, as well as additional labor required to support increased demand for our custom electric products from data center developers. Increased competition for direct materials due to supply chain constraints contributed to additional costs, as well as inflationary pressure for labor in manufacturing. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were $12.7 million and $10.9 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $1.8 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of stock-based compensation, legal and professional fees and other personnel and related costs. The increase was primarily due to increases in compensation expenses of $2.8 million as a result of hiring additional employees to support the Companys ongoing growth, professional fees of $2.0 million primarily related to public company compliance and information technology projects, and increases of $2.2 million in other general operating costs to support the Companys growth, partially offset by a decrease in stock compensation of $5.3 million due to the forfeiture of restricted common stock awards in the 2023 period. Depreciation and amortization expense during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $59.3 million and $14.2 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $45.1 million. The increase was primarily due to higher depreciation expense recognized for the Rockdale Facility and our recently acquired miners. The change in fair value of our derivative asset for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was ($5.8) million and $43.7 million, respectively, and was recorded to adjust the fair value of our Power Supply Agreement, which was classified as a derivative asset and measured at fair value. Power curtailment credits for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was $3.1 million and $2.6 million, respectively, and represents power sales into the ERCOT marketplace through the Companys participation in ERCOTs energy demand response programs. The realized gain on sale of Bitcoin for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was $13.8 million and $9.7 million, respectively. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of 1,775 more Bitcoin sold in the 2023 period as compared to 2022, partially offset by decreased Bitcoin values in the 2023 period as compared to the 2022 period. Casualty-related losses for the three months ended March 31, 2023, was $1.5 million and was attributable to the damage incurred at the Rockdale Facility as a result of severe winter storms in Texas. There were no casualty-related losses incurred for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Impairment of Bitcoin for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was $4.5 million and $25.9 million, respectively, arising from declines in Bitcoin prices during the periods. Other income (expense) Other expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of $3.8 million of interest expense. Other expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $2.0 million, which consisted of $1.6 million of unrealized losses on marketable equity securities and $0.4 million of interest expense. Non-GAAP Measures In addition to financial measures presented under GAAP, we consistently evaluate our use of and calculation of the non-GAAP financial measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted earnings per share (Adjusted EPS). EBITDA is computed as net 26 Table of Contents income before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure defined as EBITDA further adjusted to eliminate the effects of certain non-cash and/or non-recurring items that do not reflect our ongoing strategic business operations, which management believes results in a performance measurement that represents a key indicator of the Companys core business operations of Bitcoin mining. The adjustments include fair value adjustments such as derivative power contract adjustments, equity securities value changes, and non-cash stock-based compensation expense, in addition to financing and legacy business income and expense items. We exclude impairments and gains or losses on sales or exchanges of Bitcoin from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA for all periods presented. Adjusted EPS is a financial measure defined as Adjusted EBITDA divided by our diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. We believe Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EPS can be important financial measures because they allow management, investors, and our board of directors to evaluate and compare our operating results, including our return on capital and operating efficiencies, from period-to-period by making such adjustments. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EPS are provided in addition to, and should not be considered to be a substitute for, or superior to, net income, the most comparable measure under GAAP to Adjusted EBITDA, and to diluted net income (loss) per share, the most comparable measure under GAAP to Adjusted EPS. Further, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EPS should not be considered as an alternative to revenue growth, net income, diluted earnings per share or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EPS have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider such measures either in isolation or as substitutes for analyzing our results as reported under GAAP. The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to Net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP financial metric: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net income (loss) $ (55,688) $ 36,578 Interest (income) expense 3,830 357 Income tax expense (benefit) (4,969) 312 Depreciation and amortization 59,340 14,245 EBITDA 2,513 51,492 Adjustments: Non-cash/non-recurring operating expenses: Stock-based compensation expense (2,296) 3,042 Acquisition-related costs 78 Change in fair value of derivative asset 5,778 (43,683) Change in fair value of contingent consideration 176 Unrealized (gain) loss on marketable equity securities 1,611 Casualty-related charges (recoveries), net 1,526 Other revenue, (income) expense items: License fees (24) (24) Adjusted EBITDA $ 7,497 $ 12,692 27 Table of Contents The following table reconciles Adjusted EPS to Diluted net income (loss) per share, the most comparable GAAP financial metric: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Diluted net income (loss) per share $ (0.33) $ 0.31 Interest (income) expense 0.02 Income tax expense (benefit) (0.03) Depreciation and amortization 0.35 0.12 EBITDA 0.01 0.43 Adjustments, per share: Non-cash/non-recurring operating expense: Stock-based compensation expense (0.01) 0.03 Acquisition-related costs Change in fair value of derivative asset 0.03 (0.37) Change in fair value of contingent consideration Unrealized (gain) loss on marketable equity securities 0.01 Casualty-related charges (recoveries), net 0.01 Other revenue, (income) expense items: License fees Adjusted EPS $ 0.04 $ 0.10 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding 167,342,500 117,042,347 In addition to the non-GAAP financial measures of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EPS described above, we believe Bitcoin Mining revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits, Data Center Hosting revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits, Cost of revenues Bitcoin Mining, net of power curtailment credits and Cost of revenues Data Center Hosting, net of power curtailment credits are additional performance measurements that represent a key indicator of the Companys core business operations of both Bitcoin mining and Data Center Hosting. We believe our ability to offer power back to the grid at market-driven spot prices, thereby reducing our operating costs, is integral to our overall strategy, specifically our power management strategy and our commitment to supporting the ERCOT grid. While participation in various grid demand response programs may impact our Bitcoin production, we view this as an important part of our partnership-driven approach with ERCOT and our commitment to being a good corporate citizen in our communities. We also believe netting the power sales against our costs can be an important financial measure because it allows management, investors, and our board of directors to evaluate and compare our operating results, including our operating efficiencies, from period-to-period by making such adjustments. We have allocated the benefit of the power sales to our Data Center Hosting and Bitcoin Mining segments based on their proportional power consumption during the periods presented. Bitcoin Mining revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits, Data Center Hosting revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits, Cost of revenues Bitcoin Mining, net of power curtailment credits and Cost of revenues Data Center Hosting, net of power curtailment credits are provided in addition to and should not be considered to be a substitute for, or superior to Revenue Bitcoin Mining, Revenue Data Center Hosting, Cost of revenues Bitcoin Mining or Cost of revenues Data Center Hosting as presented in our consolidated statements of operations. 28 Table of Contents The following table presents reconciliations of these measurements to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Bitcoin Mining Revenue $ 48,023 $ 57,945 Cost of revenues 21,899 19,094 Power curtailment credits (1,937) (611) Cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits 19,962 18,483 Bitcoin mining revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits $ 28,061 $ 39,462 Bitcoin mining revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits as a percentage of revenue 58.4% 68.1% Data Center Hosting Revenue $ 9,042 $ 9,694 Cost of revenues $ 25,660 $ 14,985 Power curtailment credits (1,138) (1,941) Cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits 24,522 13,044 Data Center Hosting revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits $ (15,480) $ (3,350) Data Center Hosting revenue in excess of cost of revenues, net of power curtailment credits as a percentage of revenue (171.2)% (34.6)% Total power curtailment credits $ (3,075) $ (2,552) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2023, we had working capital of approximately $253.6 million, which included cash and cash equivalents of $158.3 million. We reported a net loss of $55.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, which included $16.3 million in non-cash expenses, primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of $59.3 million, a decrease in the fair value of our derivative asset of $5.8 million, and impairments of Bitcoin of $4.5 million, partially offset by Bitcoin Mining revenue of $48.0 million and an income tax benefit of $5.0 million. We believe our current financial position and operations give us the ability to meet cash requirements and plans in the short-term and long-term. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company sold 1,975 Bitcoin for proceeds of approximately $44.4 million. The Company monitors its balance sheet on an ongoing basis and evaluates the level of Bitcoin retained from monthly production in consideration of the cash requirements and its ongoing operations and expansion. Miners As of December 31, 2022, the Company had outstanding executed purchase agreements for the purchase of miners from Bitmain for a total of 5,130 S19 series miners, which were received in January 2023. As of March 31, 2023, the Company did not have any outstanding executed purchase agreements for the purchase of miners. 29 Table of Contents Development of the Corsicana Facility Data Center: In 2022, we announced our planned development of the Corsicana Facility, a second large-scale Bitcoin mining and data center hosting facility located on a 265-acre site in Navarro County, Texas. The Corsicana Facility is expected, upon completion, to have one-gigawatt of developed capacity for Bitcoin mining and data center hosting, securely supplied with power by a substation being developed for the Company on the premises that will be interconnected with the nearby Navarro Switch. The initial phase of the development of the Corsicana Facility involves the construction of 400 MW of immersion-cooled Bitcoin mining and data center hosting infrastructure spread across multiple buildings, as well as construction of various utilities, offices, warehouses, and infrastructure to support the facilitys operations. Construction of the substation and the data centers is expected to be carried out through 2023, with Bitcoin Mining and Data Center Hosting operations expected to commence following the commissioning of the substation. This first phase of the development of the Corsicana Facility includes land acquisition, site preparation, substation development, and transmission construction, along with construction of ancillary buildings and four buildings utilizing the Companys immersion-cooling infrastructure and technology. The Company estimates that the total cost of the first phase of the development will be approximately $333 million, which is scheduled to be invested through the first quarter of 2024. Through March 31, 2023, we had incurred costs of approximately $70.0 million related to the development of the Corsicana Facility, which consisted of $10.1 million for land, $55.2 million of initial developments costs and equipment and a $4.7 million deposit for future power usage. We expect to incur costs of approximately $182 million during the remainder of 2023 and approximately $81 million during the first quarter of 2024. Revenue from Operations Bitcoin Mining We expect to generate ongoing revenues from Bitcoin rewards from our Bitcoin Mining operations and our ability to liquidate Bitcoin rewards at future values will be regularly evaluated to generate cash for operations. Generating Bitcoin rewards, for example, which exceed our production and overhead costs will determine our ability to report profit margins related to such Bitcoin mining operations, although accounting for our reported profitability is significantly complex. Furthermore, regardless of our ability to generate proceeds from the sale of our Bitcoin produced from our Bitcoin Mining business, we may need to raise additional capital in the form of equity or debt to fund our operations and pursue our business strategy. The ability to raise funds through the sale of equity, debt financings, or the sale of Bitcoin to maintain our operations is subject to many risks and uncertainties and, even if we were successful, future equity issuances or convertible debt offerings could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and any future debt or debt securities may contain covenants that limit our operations or ability to enter into certain transactions. Our ability to realize revenue through Bitcoin production and successfully convert Bitcoin into cash or fund overhead with Bitcoin is subject to a number of risks, including regulatory, financial and business risks, many of which are beyond our control. Additionally, we have observed significant historical volatility in the market price of Bitcoin and, as such, future prices cannot be predicted. Data Center Hosting Generally, we provide power for our hosted/co-located Bitcoin mining data center clients on a variable (sub-metered) basis. Each client pays us variable monthly fees based on the amount of power, networking costs, and other basic hosting services utilized by such clients hosted operations, at rates specified in such clients hosting agreement. In addition to power charges and basic hosting charges, our hosting agreements with certain clients provide for revenue sharing, based on the customers operating revenue, net of direct hosting costs paid to us. We recognize variable hosting revenue each month, as the hosting fees and revenue sharing payments due to us from our hosting clients are subject to various uncertainties largely outside of our control, including the amount of power used by the hosted client, the market price for Bitcoin, the Bitcoin network difficulty and global hash rate, as well as other factors. We generate engineering and construction services revenue from the fabrication and deployment of immersion cooling technology for Bitcoin mining clients, for which we bill the client at a fixed monthly fee or at an hourly rate. For the installation and maintenance of client-owned equipment, revenue is recognized upon completion of each phase of the installation project, as defined in each clients hosting agreement. For the construction of assets owned by us but paid for and used by the client during the term of their data center hosting contract, revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the remaining life of the contract. 30 Table of Contents Maintenance services include cleaning, cabling, and other services to maintain the clients equipment. We bill the client at a fixed monthly fee or at an hourly rate. Revenue is recognized as these services are provided. For a number of clients inherited as a result of the Whinstone acquisition, we provide data center hosting services pursuant to hosting agreements negotiated on below-market terms, including as to power costs (Legacy Contracts). Accordingly, our hosting revenue from such Legacy Contracts has, historically, been less than our cost to provide such clients with hosting services. We are presently engaged in litigation relating to such Legacy Contracts, further increasing our costs associated with these Legacy Contracts. Our goal is to protect and advance the value of our Data Center Hosting business, and as such, we are actively monitoring the performance of such Legacy Contract clients. Engineering Substantially all engineering revenue is derived from the sale of custom products built to customers specifications under fixed-price contracts. Revenues are recognized over time as performance creates or enhances an asset with no alternative use, and for which we have an enforceable right to receive compensation as defined under the contract. The length of time required to complete a custom product varies but is typically between four and 12 weeks. Customers are typically required to make periodic progress payments based on contractually agreed-upon milestones. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our Bitcoin Mining, Data Center Hosting, or Engineering operations when needed or secure additional sources of funding, it may be necessary to significantly reduce our current rate of spending or explore other strategic alternatives. Legal Proceedings The Company is a party in several contractual lawsuits and has also been named a defendant in several legacy class action and other investor related lawsuits as more fully described under the heading Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of the 2022 Annual Report and in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies in the unaudited Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. While the Company maintains policies of insurance, such policies may not cover all the costs or expenses associated with responding to such matters or any liability or settlement associated with any lawsuits and are subject to significant deductible or retention amounts. Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.4 million, which primarily consisted of: net loss of $55.7 million; a decrease in operating assets and liabilities of $85.7 million, which consisted primarily of: proceeds from the sale of Bitcoin of $44.4 million and $24.0 million from the receipt of future power credits, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $9.8 million, and a decrease in accounts receivable of $7.1 million; and non-cash reconciling expenses of $16.3 million, primarily consisting of: depreciation and amortization of $59.3 million, a decrease in the fair value of our derivative asset of $5.8 million, and impairment of Bitcoin of $4.5 million, partially offset by: Bitcoin Mining revenue of $48.0 million, and an income tax benefit of $5.0 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, Net cash used in operating activities was $45.3 million, which primarily consisted of: net income of $36.6 million; and an increase in operating assets and liabilities of $17.5 million, which consisted primarily of: an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $13.8 million and decrease in accounts payable of $8.8 million, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of Bitcoin of $9.4 million; and non-cash reconciling income of $56.4 million, consisting primarily of: Bitcoin Mining of $57.9 million, 31 Table of Contents an increase in the fair value of our derivative asset of $43.7 million, partially offset by: impairment of Bitcoin of $25.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $14.2 million. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Net cash used in investing activities was $74.0 million, which primarily consisted of: Purchases of property and equipment of $51.0 million, and Security deposits paid of $23.0 million in connection with a 215 MW increase to the Power Supply Agreement with TXU. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, Net cash used in investing activities was $140.3 million, which primarily consisted of: deposits paid on equipment of $103.2 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $37.1 million. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Net cash used in financing activities was $0.9 million, which consisted of: the repurchase of shares of common stock withheld to satisfy employee withholding taxes of $1.3 million in connection with the settlement of vested equity awards granted under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan; partially offset by $0.4 million of net proceeds from the Credit and Security Facility. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, Net cash used in financing activities was $13.2 million, which consisted of: the repurchase of shares of common stock withheld to satisfy employee withholding taxes of $8.3 million in connection with the settlement of vested equity awards granted under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan, and payments on our contingent consideration liability of $4.8 million. Critical Accounting Policies Our critical accounting policies and significant estimates have not changed from those detailed in our 2022 Annual Report, except for those accounting subjects described under the heading Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements in Note 3, Basis of Presentation, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the unaudited Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements The Company has evaluated all recently issued accounting pronouncements and believes such pronouncements do not have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. See Note 3. Basis of Presentation, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the unaudited Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.