Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 32 of this Annual Report, which may be updated, supplemented, and amended by our subsequent disclosures contained in the reports and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The risks, factors and uncertainties disclosed herein and in our other filings are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material as of the date hereof may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. It is not possible for our management to accurately and completely predict all risks, factors, and uncertainties that may be applicable to our business, nor can we know the extent of the impact of such risks, factors, and uncertainties on our business. Should any of the risks, factors, or uncertainties we discuss in this Annual Report or the documents incorporated by reference herein, or any of those risks, factors, and uncertainties which we do not foresee or which we do not believe to be material as of the date hereof occur, our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we may make, and they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report or to reflect new information, actual results, revised expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Industry and Market Data Information regarding market and industry statistics contained in this Annual Report has been obtained from industry and other publications that we believe to be reliable, but that are not produced for purposes of securities filings. We have not independently verified any market, industry or similar data presented in this Annual Report and cannot assure you of its accuracy or completeness. Further, we have not reviewed or included data from all sources. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from third-party sources are subject to the same qualifications and the additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size, revenue and market acceptance of products and services. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on any such forecasts and other forward-looking information. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are a vertically integrated Bitcoin mining company principally engaged in enhancing our capabilities to mine Bitcoin. We also provide the critical mining infrastructure for our institutional scale clients to mine Bitcoin at our Bitcoin mining facility in Rockdale, Texas (the Whinstone Facility). Our Whinstone Facility is believed to be the largest Bitcoin mining facility, as measured by developed capacity, in North America. We operate in an environment which is consistently evolving based on the proliferation of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in general. A significant component of our strategy is to effectively and efficiently allocate capital between opportunities that we believe will generate the highest return on our capital. We operate in three business segments: (1) Bitcoin Mining (Mining), (2) Data Center Hosting (Hosting), and (3) Electrical Products and Engineering (Engineering). Business Segments Bitcoin Mining At December 31, 2021, our Mining business operated approximately 30,907 miners, with a hash rate capacity of 3.1 exahash per second (EH/s), utilizing approximately 96 megawatts (MW) of capacity. In 2021, we mined 3,813 Bitcoin, which represented an increase of 269% over the 1,033 Bitcoin we mined in 2020. Based on our existing operations and expected deliveries of miners we have purchased, we anticipate having approximately 120,150 miners in operation, utilizing approximately 370 MW of capacity by the end of 2022. Our Mining operations are focused on maximizing our ability to successfully mine Bitcoin by growing our hash rate (the amount of computer power we devote to supporting the Bitcoin blockchain) to increase our chances of successfully verifying transactions to be recorded in the decentralized digital ledger comprising the Bitcoin blockchain (a process known as solving a block). Generally, the greater share of the Bitcoin blockchains total network hash rate (the aggregate hash rate deployed to solving a block on the Bitcoin blockchain) represented by a miners hash rate, the greater the miners chances of earning Bitcoin rewards. As additional miner operators have entered the market in response to increased demand for Bitcoin, the Bitcoin blockchains network hash rate has grown. We expect this trend to continue, so we expect to need to continue to grow our hash rate to compete in our dynamic and highly competitive industry. We plan to achieve this growth by acquiring highly specialized computer servers (known in the industry as miners) built to operate application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips designed specifically to mine Bitcoin and deploying them at-scale in our Whinstone Facility, including in immersion-cooled environments. The Whinstone Facility has a dedicated best-in-class team that supports our mining operations and provides us with the necessary infrastructure and available power capacity for us to further scale our Mining business in the future. We believe ASIC miners are the most effective and energy-efficient miners available today, and we believe deploying them at-scale, including in immersion-cooled environments, with its more efficient heat dissipation and reduced wear-and-tear versus traditional air-cooled hardware, will enable us to grow our hash rate and optimize the output and longevity of our miners once they are deployed. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we executed additional purchase orders totaling $480 million with Bitmain Technologies Limited (Bitmain) for an additional 82,500 ASIC miners, including 30,000 of Bitmains latest generation Antminer model S19XP (140 TH/s) miners, and 52,500 S19j and S19j Pro miners, including 43,500 model S19j (90 TH/s) miners and 9,000 model S19j Pro (100 TH/s) miners, with anticipated monthly delivery and deployment schedules set through December 2022. For additional discussion of our purchase orders with Bitmain, see the discussion under the heading Mining Operations in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report, as well as the purchase orders themselves, which are incorporated by reference as exhibits to this Annual Report. 5 We also deploy miners with Coinmint, LLC (Coinmint) under a month-to-month co-location mining services agreement (the Coinmint Agreement) at Coinmints Massena, New York facility (the Coinmint Facility). We continually evaluate our mining performance at the Coinmint Facility to determine the optimal deployment strategy. We have primarily held the Bitcoin we mine on our balance sheet as a Bitcoin mining company, but we are constantly evaluating our Bitcoin retention policy to determine the most efficient use of that asset. Data Center Hosting On May 26, 2021, we completed the strategic acquisition (the Whinstone Acquisition) of Whinstone US, Inc. (Whinstone) from Northern Data AG, a German stock corporation (the Northern Data). For more information on the Whinstone Acquisition, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading Strategic Acquisitions and Part II,