Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) provides information that will assist the reader in understanding our results of operations and financial condition. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes (the Notes) and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and with our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2024, as included in our 2024 Annual Report. Unless otherwise indicated, amounts are stated in thousands of U.S. Dollars except for: share, per share, per MWh, and miner amounts; Bitcoin quantities, prices, and hash rate; cost to mine one bitcoin; and production value of one bitcoin mined. Our MD&A is primarily organized as follows: Business Overview and Trends. Highlights of events that impacted our financial position. Results of Operations. Analysis of our financial results comparing the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources. Analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows and discussion of our financial condition, including potential sources of liquidity, material cash requirements and their general purpose. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. Forward-Looking Statements This MD&A includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially and potentially adversely from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this MD&A and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Business Overview and Trends General We are a vertically-integrated Bitcoin Mining company principally engaged in enhancing our power infrastructure and utilizing our vertical integration strategy to mine Bitcoin in support of the Bitcoin blockchain. We are also exploring the feasibility of developing a portion of our power capacity for AI/HPC uses. We operate in two reportable business segments: Bitcoin Mining and Engineering. We own and operate multiple Bitcoin Mining sites in the United States, consisting of the Rockdale Facility, the Corsicana Facility, and the Kentucky Facility. The Rockdale Facility in Texas is believed to be one of the largest Bitcoin Mining facilities in North America, as measured by developed capacity, and currently provides 700 MW in total developed capacity. Additionally, we are developing our second large-scale facility in Texas, the Corsicana Facility. During 2024, we completed the 400 MW Phase I of development of the Corsicana Facility. Upon completion, the Corsicana Facility is expected to have approximately one GW of operational capacity available for our business purposes. During 2024, we capitalized on our positioning within the market and acquired Block Mining, a Kentucky-based vertically-integrated Bitcoin miner, and E4A Solutions, a leading provider of electrical engineering services to a diverse customer base of energy developers and data center operators. The Block Mining Acquisition added 60 MW of operational capacity for self-mining operations, which we plan to expand to 110 MW in 2025, and provided us access to a secondary electrical grid. The E4A Solutions Acquisition added engineering expertise to service our electrical infrastructure and allows us to provide electrical solutions and services to support the rapidly growing market for electrical infrastructure. Our market environment is highly competitive, both globally and regionally. We compete with other large-scale Bitcoin miners, as well as individual participants, to earn the Bitcoin reward that is central to our operations. Our industry continues to evolve alongside 34 Table of Contents the proliferation of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in general, and we believe we are well positioned within the digital commodities industry in which we operate. AI/HPC Evaluation Our current focus is evaluating the feasibility of developing the approximately 600 MW of remaining power capacity at the Corsicana Facility for AI/HPC uses, with the goal of maximizing the potential of our assets and enhancing our Bitcoin Mining operations. We operate in an environment which is frequently evolving based on the proliferation of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in general. We have determined that it is in the best interest of our business to undertake a formal process to evaluate the feasibility of developing the approximately 600 MW of remaining power capacity at the Corsicana Facility for AI/HPC uses with the goal of maximizing the potential of our assets. We have engaged a leading consultant in the data center industry to conduct a feasibility assessment of the Corsicana Facility. A significant component of our overall business strategy is to effectively and efficiently allocate capital toward opportunities that generate the highest return on investment. Business Segments Bitcoin Mining During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we continued to deploy miners across all our Facilities, with the objective of increasing our operational efficiency and performance moving forward. As of March 31, 2025, we had a total deployed hash rate capacity of 33.7 EH/s, as compared to 31.5 EH/s as of December 31, 2024, an increase of 6.9%. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we mined 1,530 bitcoin, reflecting an increase of 166 bitcoin compared to the 1,364 bitcoin we mined during the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily due to our increase in deployed hash rate and significantly improved operational efficiency, partially offset by the increase in the global network hash rate and the halving that occurred in April 2024. Custodians As Bitcoin is a decentralized cryptocurrency, it is not required that Bitcoin be held by a custodian, and we may choose to self-custody. However, we believe that our private keys associated with our Bitcoin are better safeguarded within the secure environment provided by custodians. Self-custody poses an increased risk to our private keys, and we may not have the same level of protection as that offered by custody providers who are well-versed in industry best practices for safeguarding digital assets from potential theft, loss, or destruction. Our Bitcoin custodian and brokerage services relationships are non-exclusive, and we may change our custodian and brokerage relationships at any time. We continually monitor our Bitcoin assets held by our custodians. The Companys insurance providers do not have inspection rights associated with our Bitcoin assets held in cold storage. For additional information regarding our relationships with our custodians, NYDIG Trust Company LLC and Coinbase, Inc., on behalf of itself and Coinbase Custody Trust Company, LLC, and, if applicable, Coinbase or Coinbase Custody International Ltd., and a description of our underlying agreements with them, see Part I, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our 2024 Annual Report. 35 Table of Contents Bitcoin Mining Metrics The following table presents our key Bitcoin Mining metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Hash rate, average operating (EH/s)(1) Rockdale Facility 12.9 8.6 Corsicana Facility 14.2 Kentucky Facility 2.6 Combined hash rate, average operating 29.7 8.6 All-in power cost (cents/kilowatt-hour)(2) Rockdale Facility 3.7 3.8 Corsicana Facility 3.4 Kentucky Facility 4.1 Combined all-in power cost 3.8 3.8 March 31, 2025 2024 Hash rate, deployed (EH/s)(1) Rockdale Facility 15.0 12.4 Corsicana Facility 15.7 Kentucky Facility 3.0 Combined hash rate, deployed 33.7 12.4 Developed power capacity (MW)(3) Rockdale Facility 700 700 Corsicana Facility 400 Kentucky Facility 65 Total power capacity 1,165 700 (1) Hash rate, average deployed, represents the average total potential hash rate of all our deployed miners throughout the period, whereas hash rate, average operating, represents the average total hash rate our deployed miners provided throughout the period. The difference between deployed hash rate and operating hash rate is attributable to down time of all or some of miners for power curtailments, or repairs and maintenance of Bitcoin miners or supporting infrastructure. The difference between deployed and operating hash rate is a key measure in determining the efficiency of our Bitcoin Mining operations. (2) All-in power cost represents the price we paid for our power throughout the period, net of any power curtailments received. Power is overwhelmingly the largest marginal input cost in mining Bitcoin and a significant contributor to profitability. Miners with a low cost of power are better positioned to profitably mine across a wider range of Bitcoin price environments. (3) Developed power is the total amount of electricity our Facilities can utilize for Bitcoin Mining. 36 Table of Contents The following table presents our cost to mine one bitcoin (amounts in thousands, except Quantity of Bitcoin mined and Production value of one Bitcoin mined amounts): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Cost of power for self-mining operations $ 61,830 $ 28,555 Other direct cost of revenue for self-mining operations(1)(2), excluding Bitcoin miner depreciation 12,988 7,994 Cost of revenue for self-mining operations, excluding Bitcoin miner depreciation 74,818 36,549 Less: power curtailment credits(3) (7,801) (5,131) Cost of revenue for self-mining operations, net of power curtailment credits, excluding Bitcoin miner depreciation 67,017 31,418 Bitcoin miner depreciation(4)(5) 57,062 22,439 Cost of revenue for self-mining operations, net of power curtailment credits, including Bitcoin miner depreciation $ 124,079 $ 53,857 Quantity of Bitcoin mined 1,530 1,364 Production value of one Bitcoin mined(6) $ 93,385 $ 52,343 Cost to mine one Bitcoin, excluding Bitcoin miner depreciation $ 43,808 $ 23,034 Cost to mine one Bitcoin, excluding Bitcoin miner depreciation, as a % of production value of one Bitcoin mined 46.9 % 44.0 % Cost to mine one Bitcoin, including Bitcoin miner depreciation $ 81,109 $ 39,485 Cost to mine one Bitcoin, including Bitcoin miner depreciation, as a % of production value of one Bitcoin mined 86.9 % 75.4 % (1) Other direct cost of revenue includes compensation, insurance, repairs, and ground lease rent and related property tax. (2) During the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, we paid cash of approximately $21.0 million and $92.0 million and, respectively, in total deposits and payments for the purchase of miners. Costs to finance the purchase of miners were zero in all periods presented as the miners were paid for with cash from the Companys cash balance. The seller did not provide any financing nor did the Company borrow from a third-party to purchase the miners. (3) Power curtailment credits are credited against our power invoices as a result of temporarily pausing our operations to participate in ERCOTs Demand Response Service Programs. Our fixed-price power purchase contracts enable us to strategically curtail our mining operations and participate in these programs, which significantly lower our cost to mine Bitcoin. These credits are recognized in Power curtailment credits on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, outside of cost of revenue, but significantly reduce our overall cost to mine Bitcoin. (4) We capitalize the acquisition cost of our miners and include these costs in Property and equipment, net on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The miners are depreciated over an estimated useful life of three years, during which time, the miners are expected to generate Bitcoin revenue. We do not consider depreciation expense in determining whether it is economical to operate our miners since depreciation is a non-cash expense and is not a variable operating cost that can be avoided even if we curtail operations temporarily. Depreciation expense incurred is disclosed for each respective period in the table above. (5) The following table presents the future depreciation expense of all of our Bitcoin miners: Remainder of 2025 $ 183,117 2026 204,986 2027 144,643 2028 7,263 Total $ 540,009 (6) Computed as revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined divided by the quantity of Bitcoin mined during the same period. 37 Table of Contents During 2023, 2024, and 2025, we entered into purchase orders under the Master Agreement to acquire new miners from MicroBT. These purchase orders represented a total hash rate of 34.6 EH/s, with a total purchase price of approximately $615.1 million, subject to downward price adjustments as provided by the Master Agreement. These miners are primarily intended for deployment at the Corsicana Facility, which commenced operations in April 2024. Delivery of these miners began in 2023, and all miners are expected to be received and deployed by mid-2025. The Master Agreement provided us with four additional annual options to purchase miners, on the same or more favorable terms as the second purchase order executed under the Master Agreement. Assuming all four annual purchase options are exercised, these additional miners would represent a total hash rate of approximately 75.0 EH/s. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, Bitcoin Mining revenue was approximately $142.9 million and $71.4 million, respectively. Engineering Our Engineering business designs and manufactures power distribution equipment and custom-engineered electrical products. These products support our vertical integration strategy by enabling internal development of critical electrical components and engineering services necessary for our site developments. This integration helps mitigate our execution and counter-party risk in ongoing and future expansion projects. The specialized talent employed in our Engineering business allows us the opportunity to explore new methods to optimize and develop best-in-class Bitcoin Mining operations and have been instrumental in the development of our industrial-scale immersion-cooled Bitcoin Mining hardware. Our Engineering business also provides electricity distribution product design, manufacturing, and installation services primarily focused on large-scale commercial and governmental customers and serves a broad scope of clients across a wide range of markets including data center, power generation, utility, water, industrial, and alternative energy. Engineering revenue is derived from the sale of custom products built to customers specifications under fixed-price contracts with one identified performance obligation. Engineering revenue is recognized over time as performance creates or enhances an asset with no alternative use, and for which we have an enforceable right to receive compensation as defined under the contract. In December 2024, we completed the E4A Solutions Acquisition. This acquisition is consistent with our vertically integrated strategy by adding engineering expertise to service our own existing and future electrical infrastructure and allows us to provide electrical solutions and services to support the rapidly growing market for electrical infrastructure. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, Engineering revenue was approximately $13.9 million and $4.7 million. respectively. Strategic Goals and Initiatives Bitcoin Treasury Strategy Our Bitcoin acquisition strategy (Bitcoin Treasury Strategy) involves mining Bitcoin utilizing vertical integration, and from time to time, subject to market conditions, purchasing Bitcoin with our liquid assets derived from issuing debt or equity securities or selling Bitcoin to fund our operations and pursue our business strategy. Our vertical integration strategy has supported our stability during market fluctuations and allows us to capitalize on industry consolidation while building on our liquidity position. Power Strategy Long-term power contracts form the basis of our power strategy. We utilize the Rockdale PPA and the Corsicana PPA (together, the PPAs) in place at our Facilities in the following ways: Manual Curtailment We power down operations and return power to the utility when market prices for electricity provide the potential for us to receive more power curtailment credits than the Bitcoin Mining revenues we would have generated had we not curtailed our mining operations. We receive power credits for the difference in the market power price and our fixed power price, which provides us the ability to maximize our overall profitability between Bitcoin Mining and supporting the grid by not drawing power from the grid when electricity is most scarce. 38 Table of Contents Ancillary Services We competitively bid to sell ERCOT and MISO the option to control our electrical load during certain hours. ERCOT and MISO compensate us in the form of Demand Response Service Programs Credits, which are received whether or not we are called on to power down. ERCOTs 4CP Program At the Rockdale Facility and the Corsicana Facility, we voluntarily power down operations during times of peak demand in summer months. Participation provides us with substantial savings on transmission costs in the subsequent years power bills, reducing our overall power costs. The following table presents our power curtailment credits: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Manual curtailment power credits $ 7,030 $ 3,436 Demand response power credits 771 1,695 Total power curtailment credits $ 7,801 $ 5,131 The following graph presents the primary decision points that guide our decision to curtail power usage or power down our mining operations, and when we might resume mining operations: 39 Table of Contents Challenges, Risks, and Industry Trends Increased Competition and Global Network Hash Rate The price of Bitcoin increased during the first quarter of 2024 due to a new source of demand, the 11 Bitcoin spot Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), which were approved to begin trading by the SEC on January 11, 2024. These ETFs, as investment vehicles, provide investors with a new way to gain exposure to Bitcoin through more traditional financial markets. During 2023 and 2024, the Bitcoin mining industry experienced record growth as the price of Bitcoin increased from the lows experienced in early 2023. The rising Bitcoin price renewed opportunities to access capital markets to fund growth, leading to unprecedented expansion in mining operations and resulted in a doubling of the size of provisioned hash calculation services on the network, as measured by total hash rate. In advance of the April 2024 Bitcoin network halving, many Bitcoin mining companies heavily invested in implementing vertically-integrated business models, infrastructure, and upgrading and expanding mining fleets. Competition on the Bitcoin network has expanded in kind and we expect competition within the mining industry to intensify as long as Bitcoin prices remain elevated or increase further. We have observed that when the market price for Bitcoin experiences sustained increases (as it had through January 2025), new miners are introduced onto the Bitcoin network, contributing to an increase in the global network hash rate. Despite the halving in April 2024 and increase in the global network hash rate, our hash rate grew by approximately 170.0% from December 31, 2023 to March 31, 2025. This growth contributed to an increase of approximately 12.1% in the number of Bitcoin we mined during the three months ended 2025 as compared to the same period in 2024. Accordingly, as the global network hash rate continues to rise, existing miners must increase their hash rate to maintain or improve their chances of earning a Bitcoin mining reward. In response, we actively pursue new Bitcoin Mining capacity, including through our acquisition and development of new Bitcoin Mining facilities, such as the Corsicana Facility and the Block Mining Acquisition, as well as electricity supply and distribution infrastructure to support these operations. We are also focused on other strategic growth opportunities that enhance our long-term competitiveness. Further, we have adopted new and improved technology to increase both our mining power and efficiency, including our industrial-scale adoption of immersion cooling and our strategic acquisitions of large quantities of the latest powerful and efficient miners available. Increased Transaction Fees The Bitcoin mining industry recently experienced an increase in transaction fees on the Bitcoin network, alongside growing overall demand for Bitcoin. While transaction fees remain inherently volatile, they are paid directly to miners and are representative of the public interest in transacting on the Bitcoin network. These transaction fees, combined with the block subsidy issued by the Bitcoin network, make up the total reward paid to miners upon solving a block. Since 2021, we have led the industry by focusing on a vertically-integrated business model. We remain committed to building long-term stockholder value by taking strategic actions to further vertically-integrate our business at the current Rockdale Facility, developing the Corsicana Facility, and integrating our acquisitions including the Kentucky Facility and E4A Solutions. Management believes that vertical integration will strengthen each of our business segments by providing increased capacity for our Bitcoin Mining operations, expanding opportunities for implementing our proprietary power strategy, and positioning us to capitalize on supply chain efficiencies and electrical engineering services through our Engineering segment. We continue to focus on deploying our efficient Bitcoin Mining fleet, at scale, while realizing the benefits of being an owner and operator of our Bitcoin Mining facilities. Grid Curtailment The Public Utility Commission of Texas, ERCOT, and Oncor Electric Delivery Company (Oncor) collectively oversee the regulatory, administrative, and delivery aspects of our power supply in Texas. In Kentucky, our power supply is overseen by MISO. As the Bitcoin mining industry has expanded in recent years, regulatory scrutiny on Bitcoin mining facilities and their energy consumption has intensified accordingly. As Texass grid operator, ERCOT is responsible for monitoring and testing market participants, including our Bitcoin Mining facilities at the Rockdale Facility and the Corsicana Facility, to evaluate their impact on grid reliability. As part of this process, ERCOT may issue curtailment notices to reduce the power usage at our Texas operations. Our Facilities in Texas are subject to periodic testing and monitoring and have experienced power curtailments in response to instructions we receive from Oncor and 40 Table of Contents ERCOT. Given the inherent uncertainty regarding the duration or extent of power curtailments and testing procedures, we are currently unable to reasonably estimate their potential impact to our operations. If we cannot secure adequate access to electrical power, we may be forced to reduce or shut down our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2024 Annual Report for additional discussion regarding potential impacts our competitive and evolving industry may have on our business. Recent Events Affecting the Company An inflationary environment marked by global supply chain logistic disruptions across multiple distribution channels, has in the past contributed to delays in certain of our miner delivery schedules and in our infrastructure development schedules, driven by constraints in the globalized supply chains for miners, electricity distribution equipment, and construction materials, and these conditions may contribute to delays in the future. We have also experienced delays in our Engineering business segments manufacturing and delivery schedule, and in our infrastructure development schedules, resulting from constraints on the globalized supply chains for miners, electricity distribution equipment and construction materials. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we continued to operate under such conditions; however, we effectively and efficiently mitigated delivery delays to avoid material impacts to our miner deployment schedule, although we cannot guarantee continued success in mitigating any such delivery delays in the future. Additionally, the development and potential expansion of our Facilities requires large quantities of construction materials, specialized electricity distribution equipment, and other critical components, all of which are in high demand and may be difficult to source. To help mitigate the impacts of increasing demand for these goods, global supply chain constraints, and uncertainty arising from recently imposed U.S. tariffs on imports and retaliatory tariffs imposed by other countries, including any inflationary pricing that may result from such impacts, we procured and already hold many electrical infrastructure components and materials required to develop the next 600 MW phase of the Corsicana Facility and expand the Kentucky Facility, as well as replacement components and parts for our existing systems, to help shorten the impact of potential damage to installed equipment. Summary of Riots Bitcoin Mining Results The following tables present additional information about our own Bitcoin Mining activities, including Bitcoin production and sales of the Bitcoin mined: Quantity Amounts Balance as of January 1, 2025 17,722 $ 1,654,468 Revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined 1,530 142,859 Change in Bitcoin receivable 1 208 Proceeds from sale of Bitcoin Exchange of Bitcoin for employee compensation (30) (2,950) Change in fair value of Bitcoin (208,040) Balance as of March 31, 2025 19,223 $ 1,586,545 Quantity Amounts Balance as of January 1, 2024 7,362 $ 311,178 Revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined 1,364 71,396 Change in Bitcoin receivable 7 (80) Proceeds from sale of Bitcoin (212) (9,518) Exchange of Bitcoin for employee compensation (31) (1,461) Change in fair value of Bitcoin 234,080 Balance as of March 31, 2024 8,490 $ 605,595 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparative Results for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025, and 2024: Revenue Total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was $161.4 million and $79.3 million, respectively. Total revenue consists of our Bitcoin Mining revenue, Engineering revenue, and Other revenue. Other revenue consists almost entirely of residual activity related to our remaining data center hosting operations. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, Bitcoin Mining revenue was $142.9 million and $71.4 million, respectively. The increase of $71.5 million was primarily due to higher Bitcoin prices in the 2025 period, which averaged $93,385 per bitcoin, as compared to $52,343 per bitcoin for the 2024 period. Despite the substantial increase in the global network hash rate and the April 2024 halving, Bitcoin production increased by 12.2% during the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, Engineering revenue was $13.9 million and $4.7 million, respectively. The increase of $9.2 million was primarily attributable to the accelerated completion of certain custom products, and, therefore, the recognition of revenue. Additionally, $4.1 million of the increase was due to the E4A Solutions Acquisition in December 2024. Costs and expenses For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, Cost of revenue for Bitcoin Mining consisted of the following: Three months ended March 31, 2025 2024 Power $ 61,830 $ 28,555 Compensation 4,445 2,645 Insurance on miners 1,462 1,735 Ground rent and related water and property tax 344 Other(1) 6,737 3,614 Total Bitcoin Mining cost of revenue $ 74,818 $ 36,549 (1) All amounts included within Other are individually insignificant. The increase of approximately $38.3 million of Cost of revenue for Bitcoin Mining was primarily due to the increase in Bitcoin Mining capacity at the Corsicana Facility, which requires additional headcount and direct costs necessary to maintain and support our expanded Bitcoin Mining operations. Cost of revenue for Bitcoin Mining excludes depreciation and amortization, which are stated separately on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Cost of revenue for Engineering for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was $11.8 million and $6.0 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $5.8 million. The costs consisted primarily of direct materials and labor, as well as indirect manufacturing costs, which increased along with the increase in revenue as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, were $71.4 million and $57.7 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $13.7 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of stock-based compensation, legal and professional fees, and other personnel and related costs. The increase was primarily due to an increase in legal and professional fees of $6.4 million primarily related to ongoing litigation and public company-related expenses and an increase of $3.0 million in compensation expense as a result of hiring additional employees to support our ongoing growth. The remaining increase was due to an increase in other general operating costs such as insurance and information technology projects to support our growth, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation of $2.4 million due to the vesting of awards during 2024. Depreciation and amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was $77.9 million and $32.3 million, respectively, an increase of approximately $45.6 million. The increase was primarily due to increased depreciation from the Corsicana Facility coming online in April 2024 and additional miners being deployed. 42 Table of Contents The change in fair value of Bitcoin for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was a loss of $208.0 million and a gain of $234.1 million, respectively, and were recognized to adjust the fair value of our Bitcoin held at the end of each period. The change in fair value of our derivative asset for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, were gains of $41.9 million and $20.2 million, respectively, and was recorded to adjust the fair value of our PPAs, which was classified as a derivative asset and measured at fair value. The changes in fair value were due to changes in future power prices over the applicable period. The gain incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2025, was primarily attributable to the average of the forward prices utilized in the discounted cash flow estimation models increasing from $51.98 per MWh as of December 31, 2024 to $55.41 per MWh as of March 31, 2025. The gain recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was primarily attributable to the average of the forward prices increasing from $43.80 per MWh as of December 31, 2023 to $47.46 per MWh as of March 31, 2024. Power curtailment credits for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, were $7.8 million and $5.1 million, respectively, and represent sales of unused power under certain of our PPAs and participation in ancillary services under ERCOT Demand Response Services Programs. The amount of these credits varies from period to period depending on various factors impacting the supply of power to, and the demand for power on, the ERCOT grid, such as weather and global fuel costs. Other income (expense) For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, total other income (expense) was ($62.1) million and $7.8 million, respectively. The change was primarily attributable to unrealized losses on marketable securities of $63.2 million. Non-GAAP Measures In addition to financial measures presented under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we consistently evaluate our use of and calculation of non-GAAP financial measures such as Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is computed as net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure defined as EBITDA adjusted to eliminate the effects of certain non-cash and/or non-recurring items that do not reflect our ongoing strategic business operations, which management believes results in a performance measurement that represents a key indicator of our core business operations of Bitcoin Mining. The adjustments include fair value adjustments such as derivative power contract adjustments, equity securities fair value changes, and non-cash stock-based compensation expense, in addition to financing and legacy business income and expense items. We believe Adjusted EBITDA can be an important financial performance measure because it allows management, investors, and our board of directors to evaluate and compare our operating results, including our return on capital and operating efficiencies, from period-to-period by making such adjustments. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is used as a performance metric for share-based compensation. Adjusted EBITDA is provided in addition to, and should not be considered to be a substitute for, or superior to, net income, the most comparable measure under GAAP to Adjusted EBITDA. Further, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to revenue growth, net income, diluted net income per share or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider this financial measure either in isolation or as a substitute for analyzing our results as reported under GAAP. 43 Table of Contents The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to Net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP performance measure: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net income (loss) $ (296,367) $ 211,777 Interest income (3,397) (8,189) Interest expense 2,308 384 Income tax expense (benefit) 437 (22) Depreciation and amortization 77,926 32,343 EBITDA (219,093) 236,293 Adjustments: Stock-based compensation expense 29,576 32,000 Acquisition-related costs 76 Change in fair value of derivative asset (41,894) (20,232) Change in fair value of contingent consideration (8,252) Unrealized loss (gain) on equity method investment - marketable securities 63,238 Loss (gain) on sale/exchange of equipment 129 Casualty-related charges (recoveries), net (2,300) Other (income) expense (93) (8) License fees (24) (24) Adjusted EBITDA $ (176,337) $ 245,729 Liquidity and Capital Resources We generate non-cash revenue through mining Bitcoin at our Facilities, which we manage based on our Bitcoin Treasury Strategy, while financing operations and other expenses with cash typically raised through the issuance of our common stock under our ATM offering program. During the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, we issued and sold approximately 5.4 million shares and 26.2 million shares, respectively, of our common stock under our ATM offering program for aggregate net proceeds (net of commissions and expenses) of $68.4 million and $345.7 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2025, we had net working capital of approximately $310.3 million, which included cash and cash equivalents of $163.7 million and marketable securities of $71.0 million. We reported a net loss of $296.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025, which included $187.1 million in non-cash net gains, primarily consisting of revenue recognized from Bitcoin mined of $142.9 million, and the change in fair value of the derivative asset of $41.9 million, partially offset by the change in fair value of Bitcoin of $208.0 million, depreciation and amortization of $77.9 million, stock-based compensation of $29.6 million, and the unrealized loss on marketable securities of $63.2 million. We monitor our balance sheet on an ongoing basis and evaluate the level of Bitcoin retained from monthly production in consideration of our cash requirements for ongoing operations and expansion. Contractual Commitments and Obligations As of March 31, 2025, we had a remaining commitment of approximately $54.0 million due to MicroBT for the contractual purchase of miners, which we expect to pay during 2025. Revenue from Operations Bitcoin Mining We expect to generate ongoing revenue from Bitcoin rewards in connection with our Bitcoin Mining operations and our ability to liquidate Bitcoin rewards at future values will be regularly evaluated to generate cash for operations. Generating Bitcoin rewards which exceed our production and overhead costs will determine our ability to report profit margins related to such Bitcoin Mining operations, although accounting for our reported profitability is significantly complex. Furthermore, 44 Table of Contents regardless of our ability to generate proceeds from the sale of our Bitcoin produced from our Bitcoin Mining business, we may need to raise additional capital in the form of equity or debt to fund our operations and pursue our business strategy. The ability to raise funds through the sale of equity, debt financings, or the sale of Bitcoin to maintain our operations is subject to many risks and uncertainties and any future equity issuances or convertible debt offerings could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and any future debt or debt securities may contain covenants that limit our operations or ability to enter into certain transactions. Our ability to realize revenue through Bitcoin production and successfully convert Bitcoin into cash or fund overhead with Bitcoin is subject to a number of risks, including regulatory, financial and business risks, many of which are beyond our control. Additionally, we have observed significant historical volatility in the market price of Bitcoin and, as such, future prices cannot be predicted. Engineering Substantially all Engineering revenue is derived from the sale of custom products built to customers specifications under fixed-price contracts and electrical engineering services. Revenue is recognized over time as performance creates or enhances an asset with no alternative use, and for which we have an enforceable right to receive compensation as defined under the contract. The length of time required to complete a custom product varies but is typically between four and 12 weeks. Customers are typically required to make periodic progress payments based on contractually agreed-upon milestones. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our Bitcoin Mining and Engineering operations when needed or secure additional sources of funding, it may be necessary to significantly reduce our current rate of spending or explore other strategic alternatives. ATM Equity Offerings During 2025, 2024, 2023 and 2022, we offered and sold shares of our common stock through ATM offering programs pursuant to sales agreements with sales agents (each, an ATM Program). See Note 14. Stockholders Equity for the terms and provisions of each sales agreement. The following table sets forth shares sold and net proceeds received (net of sales commissions and expenses) from shares sold under each ATM Program during the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: Three Months Ended March 31 2025 2024 Shares Net Proceeds Shares Net Proceeds 2023 ATM Program $ 8,644,100 $ 114,533 February 2024 ATM Program 17,525,200 231,211 August 2024 ATM Program 5,368,600 68,405 Total 5,368,600 $ 68,405 26,169,300 $ 345,744 As of March 31, 2025, approximately $292.2 million of our common stock remained available for issuance and sale pursuant to the August 2024 ATM Program. The remaining sales agreements were terminated as of August 9, 2024. Legal Proceedings We have been named a defendant in several lawsuits as more fully described in Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies. 45 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of our cash flows: Three months ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net cash used in operating activities $ (122,060) $ (57,853) Net cash used in investing activities $ (59,227) $ (194,493) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 67,857 $ 343,674 Operating Activities The increase in cash used was primarily attributable to increased power costs of $32.5 million, a $12.9 million increase in selling, general, and administrative costs, excluding stock-based compensation, both of which were primarily driven by our increased mining capacity and headcount, combined with other general operating costs such as insurance and information technology projects to support our growth, and a $9.5 million reduction in proceeds from the sale of Bitcoin due to not selling any Bitcoin during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to purchases and deposits paid for miners and purchases of property and equipment for our ongoing expansions. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we paid approximately $26.7 million in deposits and payments for the purchase of miners, and anticipate additional payments of $54.0 million to be made in 2025, and paid approximately $32.9 million for the purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, net cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of proceeds from our ATM Program offerings of $70.0 million and $353.2 million, respectively. We have approximately $585.0 million in long-term debt, primarily consisting of our 2030 Notes and debt acquired as part of the Block Mining Acquisition. We have primarily financed our strategic growth through proceeds from our ATM Program offerings and issuances of our common stock. It is reasonably likely that we will continue to finance our ongoing growth with proceeds from current and future ATM Program offerings and various debt facilities. Critical Accounting Policies In preparing our financial statements in accordance with GAAP, there are certain accounting policies that may require a choice between acceptable accounting methods or may require substantial judgment or estimation in their application. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (i) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (ii) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimates and assumptions is material to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. These include: business combinations, valuation of the Rockdale PPA and the Corsicana PPA, long-lived assets and stock-based compensation. We believe these and other accounting policies set forth in Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements should be reviewed as they are integral to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We have discussed the selection of critical accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board. Business combinations Accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, including estimates for property and equipment and contingent consideration, where applicable. Although we believe our assumptions and estimates have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Estimates used in determining the value of property and equipment included the estimated replacement costs, which included replacement cost new, remaining life, and effective age. Estimates primarily used in determining the value of the contingent consideration included the timing and probability of achieving milestones and discount rates. 46 Table of Contents Rockdale PPA and Corsicana PPA Valuations The Rockdale PPA and the Corsicana PPA are accounted for as derivatives, the valuations of which are based on significant unobservable inputs utilized in the valuations, which include discounted cash flow estimation models containing quoted commodity exchange spot and forward prices and are adjusted for basis spreads for load zone-to-hub differentials through the respective terms of the Rockdale PPA and the Corsicana PPA. Significant judgement and estimations are required when creating the discounted cash flow estimation models. Should our discounted cash flow estimation models change significantly, potentially material changes to the fair value of the derivative asset may result, which could have a material impact on our financial statements. See Note 9. Power Supply Agreements for a discussion of the unobservable inputs and their impact on the valuation. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Judgment is necessary in estimating our various assets useful lives. This includes evaluating our own usage experience with our currently owned assets, the quality of materials used in construction-related projects, and for its miners, the rate of technological advancement and market-related factors such as the price of Bitcoin and the Bitcoin network hash rate, which impact the value of the miners. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, which is determined based on a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Significant judgment is used when estimating future cash flows, particularly the price of Bitcoin and the Bitcoin network hash rate. If such assets are considered impaired, an impairment is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the assets. Should our estimates of useful lives, undiscounted future cash flows, or asset fair values change, additional and potentially material impairments may be required, which could have a material impact on our reported financial results. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense related to share-based payment awards is recognized at the grant date of the award and is estimated based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant. Compensation cost for performance-based, share-based payment awards is recognized over the performance period when achievement of the milestones and targets becomes probable. We use significant judgment in determining the likelihood of meeting milestones and market conditions. Inputs into valuation models such as Monte Carlo simulations include both the Companys and the Russell 3000s historical and expected annual volatilities, and depending on the inputs selected, we could calculate significantly different estimated grant date fair values, materially impacting the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based compensation expense we recognize in future periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements for a description of applicable recent accounting pronouncements and any material impact on our financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.