Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements plans and basis of presentation: The Company has experienced recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. At March 31, 2013, the Company had cash and liquid investments of approximately $9,268,000 working capital of approximately $6,335,000, total stockholders equity of approximately $8,373,000 and an accumulated deficit of approximately $77,035,000. To date, the Company has in large part relied on equity financing to fund its operations. The Company expects to continue to incur losses from operations for the near-term and these losses could be significant as product development, clinical and regulatory activities, initial commercial and marketing activities, consulting expenses and other product development related expenses are incurred. The Company believes that its current working capital position will be sufficient to meet its estimated cash needs for the remainder of 2013 and at least into 2014. If the Company does not obtain additional capital, the Company would potentially be required to reduce the scope of its research and development activities or cease operations. The Company continues to explore obtaining additional financing. The Company is closely monitoring its cash balances, cash needs and expense levels. Subsequent to March 31, 2013, the Company received a loan commitment to refinance a $1.6 million mortgage obligation payable in July 2013 (Note 4). Managements strategic plans include the following: - continuing to advance development of the Companys products, particularly APPY1 ; - pursuing additional capital raising opportunities; - continuing to explore prospective partnering or licensing opportunities with complementary opportunities and technologies; - continuing to monitor and implement cost control initiatives to conserve cash; and - refinancing the portion of the mortgage payable in July 2013. Results of Operations Comparative Results for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 No sales were recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the 2012 period with $7,300 in sales. The decrease is attributable to the Companys previous strategic decision to suspend antigen production and focus available resources on the acute appendicitis test product development activities. In July 2012, the Company entered into an Exclusive License Agreement (License Agreement) with a licensee (Licensee) under which the Company granted the Licensee an exclusive royalty-bearing license to the Companys intellectual property and other assets, including patent rights and know-how, relating to recombinant single chain reproductive hormone technology for use in non-human mammals (Companys Animal Health Assets). The net total payments received under this agreement were recorded as deferred revenue and are being recognized as revenue over future periods. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, $18,655 of such license payments was recognized as revenue. Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2013 totaled $1,428,000, which is a $224,000 or 19% increase as compared to the 2012 period. Commercialization and marketing expenses increased by approximately $132,000 in the 2013 period as the Company advanced on its product commercialization strategy. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, expenses associated with legal fees incurred on contractual matters increased by approximately $33,000. Research and development expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2013 totaled $1,412,000, which is approximately a $735,000 or 109% increase as compared to the 2012 period. Appendicitis test development and research expenses increased by approximately $574,000 in 2013 as compared to 2012, due primarily to commencement of clinical trial activities. Expenses incurred for the single-chain animal product development decreased by approximately $12,000 in the 2013 period. Primarily as a result of the higher levels of cash and reduced investment returns for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the 2012 period, interest income of approximately $13,000 was earned in 2013 as compared to $2,000 in 2012. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2013, decreased to $44,000, compared to $67,000 in the 2012 period. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2013, the Company received income of approximately $50,000 in connection with a redemption of its current mutual insurance company. No income tax benefit was recorded on the net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, as management was unable to determine that it was more likely than not that such benefit would be realized. 16 Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2013, we had working capital of $6,335,000, which included cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $9,268,000. We reported a net loss of $2,802,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2013, which included $552,000 in net non-cash expenses including stock-based compensation totaling $484,000 and depreciation and amortization totaling $87,000, net of amortization of license fee of $19,000. Currently, our primary focus is to continue the development activities on our acute appendicitis diagnostic test, including advancement of the steps required for FDA clearance, as well as advancing on commercialization and marketing activities following the recent attainment of CE marking in Europe (EU). We expect to continue to incur losses from operations for the near-term and these losses could be significant as we incur product development, clinical and regulatory activities, contract consulting and other product development and commercialization related expenses. We believe that our current working capital position will be sufficient to meet our estimated cash needs for the remainder of 2013 and at least into 2014. The Company is pursuing additional financing opportunities; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient additional financing on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. We are closely monitoring our cash balances, cash needs and expense levels. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might result in the possible inability of the Company to continue as a going concern. We expect that our primary expenditures will be to continue enrollment of our FDA clinical trial for APPY1 and to support commercialization and marketing activities of our appendicitis test in Europe following the recent successful completion of CE marking. Based upon our experience, clinical trial expenses can be significant costs. During the three month periods ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, we expended approximately $871,000 and $277,000, respectively, in direct costs for APPY1 development and related clinical and regulatory efforts. Steps to achieve commercialization of the acute appendicitis product will be an ongoing and evolving process with expected improvements and possible subsequent generations being evaluated for the test. Should we be unable to achieve FDA clearance of the APPY1 appendicitis test or generate sufficient revenues from the product, we would need to rely on other business or product opportunities to generate revenues and costs that we have incurred for the acute appendicitis patent may be deemed impaired. In November 2011, the Company entered into the Novartis Termination Agreement to terminate the 2008 Novartis License Agreement. Under the Novartis Termination Agreement, the termination obligation totaled $1,374,000, and at March 31, 2013, the remaining outstanding termination obligation totaled approximately $201,000 which is due in June 2013. During July 2012, the Company entered into a License Agreement with the Licensee, under which the Company granted the Licensee an exclusive royalty-bearing license to the Companys Animal Health Assets. The License Agreement includes a sublicense of the technology licensed to the Company by WU. Under the terms of the WU License Agreement, a portion of license fees and royalties Venaxis receives from sublicensing agreements will be paid to WU. Obligation for any license fees due to WU is included in accrued expenses at March 31, 2013. Under the License Agreement, the following future license fees and milestone payments will be paid to the Company, assuming future milestones are successfully achieved by the Licensee: License fees of $204,000 payable in June 2013; Milestone payments, totaling up to a potential of $1.1 million in the aggregate, based on the satisfactory conclusion of milestones as defined in the License Agreement; Potential for milestone payments of up to an additional $2 million for development and receipt of regulatory approval for additional licensed products; and Royalties, at low double digit rates, based on sales of licensed products. We have entered and expect to continue to enter into additional agreements with contract manufacturers for the development and manufacture of certain of our products for which we are seeking FDA approval. The goal of this development process is to establish current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) required for those products for which we are seeking FDA approval. These development and manufacturing agreements generally contain transfer fees and possible penalty and royalty provisions if we transfer our products to another contract manufacturer. We expect to continue to evaluate, negotiate and execute additional and expanded development and manufacturing agreements, some of which may be significant commitments. We may also consider acquisitions of development technologies or products, if opportunities arise that we believe fit our business strategy and would be appropriate from a capital standpoint. Capital expenditures, primarily for production, laboratory and facility improvement costs for remainder of the year ending December 31, 2013 are anticipated to total approximately $75,000 to $125,000. We anticipate these capital expenditures to be financed through working capital. 17 The Company periodically enters into generally short-term consulting and development agreements primarily for product development, testing services and in connection with clinical trials conducted as part of the Companys FDA clearance process. Such commitments at any point in time may be significant but the agreements typically contain cancellation provisions. We have a permanent mortgage on our land and building that commenced in July 2003. The mortgage is held by a commercial bank and includes a portion guaranteed by the U. S. Small Business Administration. The loan is collateralized by the real property and is also personally guaranteed by a former officer of the Company. The interest rate on the bank portion is one percentage over the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate (minimum 7%), with 7% being the effective rate, and the SBA portion bears interest at the rate of 5.86%. The commercial bank portion of the loan requires total monthly payments of approximately $14,200, which currently includes approximately $8,600 per month in contractual interest, through July 2013 when the then remaining principal balance is due, which is estimated to be approximately $1,577,000. The SBA portion of the loan requires total monthly payments of approximately $9,200 through July 2023, which currently includes approximately $4,100 per month in contractual interest and fees. Subsequent to March 31, 2013, we received commitment from our current lender to refinance the mortgage. Based on the letter of commitment received our expectation is that the new loan will close prior to July 2013. Such proposed terms include an amortization period of fifteen years, with a maturity at five years and the interest rate fixed at 3.95%. The expected monthly payments will be approximately $11,700, including $5,200 in contractual interest. Due to recent market events that have adversely affected all industries and the economy as a whole, management has placed increased emphasis on monitoring the risks associated with the current environment, particularly the investment parameters of the short term investments, the recoverability of current assets, the fair value of assets, and the Companys liquidity. At this point in time, there has not been a material impact on the Companys assets and liquidity. Management will continue to monitor the risks associated with the current environment and their impact on the Companys results. Operating Activities Net cash consumed by operating activities was $2,472,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2013. Cash was consumed by the loss of $2,802,000, less non-cash expenses of $484,000 for stock-based compensation and $87,000 for depreciation and amortization. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, decreases in accounts receivable and prepaid and other current assets of $101,000 provided cash, primarily related to routine changes in operating activities. A net decrease of $98,000 in accounts payable and accrued expenses consumed cash from operating activities, primarily related to the payment of 2012 incentive plan amount paid in 2013, offset by increased costs accrued on the APPY1 trial in 2013. Cash provided by operations included an increase of approximately $197,000 in deferred revenue, following the execution of the License Agreement for the Companys animal health assets. Net cash consumed by operating activities was $1,735,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Cash was consumed by the loss of $1,938,000, less non-cash expenses of $222,000 for stock-based compensation and $154,000 for depreciation, amortization and impairment charges. For the three months ended March 31, 2012, decreases in accounts receivable and prepaid and other current assets of $137,000 provided cash, primarily related to routine changes in operating activities. A net decrease of $310,000 in accounts payable and accrued expenses consumed cash from operating activities, primarily related to the payment of liabilities associated with the APPY1 trial. Investing Activities Net cash outflows from investing activities consumed $5,653,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2013. Purchases of short-term investments totaled approximately $5,613,000. A $29,000 use of cash was attributable to additional costs incurred from patent filings and approximately $11,000 was incurred from purchases of property and equipment. Net cash inflows from investing activities generated $418,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Sales of marketable securities totaled approximately $441,000. A $23,000 use of cash was attributable to additional costs incurred from patent filings. Financing Activities Net cash outflows from financing activities consumed $361,000 during the three month period ended March 31, 2013 for repayments under existing debt agreements. Net cash outflows from financing activities consumed $335,000 during the three month period ended March 31, 2012 for repayments under existing debt agreements. 18 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. The most significant accounting estimates inherent in the preparation of our financial statements include estimates associated with revenue recognition, impairment analysis of intangibles and stock-based compensation. The Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows are impacted by the accounting policies the Company has adopted. In order to get a full understanding of the Companys financial statements, one must have a clear understanding of the accounting policies employed. A summary of the Companys critical accounting policies follows: Investments: The Company invests excess cash from time to time in highly liquid debt and equity securities of highly rated entities which are classified as trading securities. Such amounts are recorded at market and are classified as current, as the Company does not intend to hold the investments beyond twelve months. Such excess funds are invested under the Companys investment policy but an unexpected decline or loss could have an adverse and material effect on the carrying value, recoverability or investment returns of such investments. Our Board has approved an investment policy covering the investment parameters to be followed with the primary goals being the safety of principal amounts and maintaining liquidity of the fund. The policy provides for minimum investment rating requirements as well as limitations on investment duration and concentrations. Intangible Assets: Intangible assets primarily represent legal costs and filings associated with obtaining patents on the Companys new discoveries. The Company amortizes these costs over the shorter of the legal life of the patent or its estimated economic life using the straight-line method. The Company tests intangible assets with finite lives upon significant changes in the Companys business environment. The testing resulted in no patent impairment charges during the three months ended March 31, 2013 and $42,000 for the 2012 period. Long-Lived Assets: The Company records property and equipment at cost. Depreciation of the assets is recorded on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Dispositions of property and equipment are recorded in the period of disposition and any resulting gains or losses are charged to income or expense when the disposal occurs. The Company reviews for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment. The required annual testing resulted in no impairment charges being recorded to date. Revenue Recognition : The Companys revenues are recognized when products are shipped or delivered to unaffiliated customers. The Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, provides guidance on the application of generally accepted accounting principles to select revenue recognition issues. The Company has concluded that its revenue recognition policy is appropriate and in accordance with SAB No. 104. Revenue is recognized under sales, license and distribution agreements only after the following criteria are met: (i) there exists adequate evidence of the transactions; (ii) delivery of goods has occurred or services have been rendered; and (iii) the price is not contingent on future activity and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. Stock-based Compensation: ASC 718, Share-Based Payment , defines the fair-value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans and transactions used by the Company to account for its issuances of equity instruments to record compensation cost for stock-based employee compensation plans at fair value as well as to acquire goods or services from non-employees. Transactions in which the Company issues stock-based compensation to employees, directors and consultants and for goods or services received from non-employees are accounted for based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued. The Company utilizes pricing models in determining the fair values of options and warrants issued as stock-based compensation. These pricing models utilize the market price of the Companys common stock and the exercise price of the option or warrant, as well as time value and volatility factors underlying the positions. Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements: The Company has evaluated all recently issued accounting pronouncements and believes such pronouncements do not have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. 19 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND STATEMENTS Certain statements in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other portions of this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby. These statements relate to future events or the Companys future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the Company or its industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, would, should, expect, plan, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, predict, potential or other comparable terminology. Please see the Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 for a discussion of certain important factors that relate to forward-looking statements contained in this report. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.