Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Comparative Results for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2011, totaled $97,000, which is a $45,000 or 32% decrease from the 2010 period. The decrease in sales is primarily attributable to the Companys strategic decision to suspend antigen production in 2010 and focus available scientific resources on the appendicitis and single-chain animal product development. In April 2008, the Company entered into a long term exclusive license and commercialization agreement to develop and launch the Companys novel recombinant single-chain bovine products. The total payments received under this agreement were recorded as deferred revenue and will be recognized in the future, with $18,000 and $16,000 of such license fee recognized in the each of the respective three month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. Cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2011 totaled $13,000 which is a $53,000 or 80% decrease as compared to the 2010 period. As a percentage of sales, gross profit was 87% in the 2011 period as compared to gross profit of 54% in the 2010 period. The improvement in the gross profit percentage resulted from no fixed production cost incurred in the 2011 period. Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2011, totaled $1,603,000, which is a $280,000 or 15% decrease as compared to the 2010 period. Hiring of additional personnel combined with overall salary increases resulted in approximately $61,000 of additional expenses in the 2011 period, net of approximately $44,000 lower incentive accruals as no amount was accrued for in the 2011 quarter. Total stock-based compensation and non-qualified option expenses were approximately $223,300 lower in the 2011 period, primarily due to less options being granted combined with lower computed Black-Scholes values attributable to the options granted. Expenses associated with public company activities were approximately $120,300 lower in the 2011 period. Research and development expenses in the 2011 period totaled $1,272,000, which is a $772,000 or 38% decrease as compared to the 2010 period. The completion of the 2010 appendicitis clinical trial in mid 2010 and related development expense reductions resulted in a decrease of $1,017,000. Current efforts related to the appendicitis test development and research increased expenses by approximately $142,000. Expenses incurred for the single-chain animal product development increased by approximately $103,000 in the 2011 period due to the costs incurred for the equine product trial conducted in 2011. Primarily as a result of the lower levels of cash and reduced investment returns in 2011 as compared to 2010, interest income of approximately $8,000 was earned in 2011 as compared to $12,000 in 2010. No income tax benefit was recorded on the loss for the three months ended March 31, 2011, as management was unable to determine that it was more likely than not that such benefit would be realized. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2011, we had working capital of $7,101,000, which included cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $9,381,000. We reported a net loss of $2,806,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2011, which included $516,000 in non-cash expenses relating to stock-based compensation of $383,000 and $133,000 for depreciation, amortization and impairment charges. Currently, our primary focus is to continue the development activities on our acute appendicitis diagnostic test, including advancement of such test with the FDA, and development of animal health single-chain products to attempt to secure near-term value from these products. Capital expenditures, primarily for production, laboratory and facility improvement costs for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 are anticipated to total $200,000 to $400,000. We anticipate these capital expenditures to be financed through working capital. We anticipate that expenditures for research and development for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 will in total be higher as compared to the amounts expended in 2010, primarily due to expected work on pre-clinical and clinical trials which will be net of lower AppyScore product development expenses. Development and testing costs in support of the current pipeline products as well as costs to file patents and revise and update previous filings on our technologies will continue to be substantial. Our principal development products consist of the AppyScore test and the single-chain animal-health hormone products. As we continue towards commercialization of these products, including evaluation of alternatives for possible product management and distribution alternatives and implications of product manufacturing and associated carrying costs such evaluation and related decisions will impact our future capital needs. Certain costs such as manufacturing and license / royalty agreements have different financial, logistical and operational implications depending upon the ultimate strategic commercialization path determined. 15 We expect that our primary development expenditures will be to continue to advance product development and testing of the cassette and instrument version of AppyScore. During the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, we expended approximately $665,000 and $1,542,000, respectively, in direct costs for the acute appendicitis test development and related efforts. Steps to achieve commercialization of the acute appendicitis product will be an ongoing and evolving process with subsequent generations and expected improvements being made in the test. Should we be unable to achieve FDA clearance of the AppyScore test and generate revenues from the product, we would need to rely on other product opportunities to generate revenues and costs that we have incurred for the acute appendicitis patent may be deemed impaired. In April 2008, the Company entered into a long-term exclusive license and commercialization agreement with Novartis Animal Health, Inc., to develop and launch the Companys novel recombinant single-chain products for use in bovines, BoviPure LH and BoviPure FSH. The Exclusive License Agreement between AspenBio and Novartis was effective April 2, 2008, and grants Novartis a license to AspenBio technology and a sublicense to The Washington University (WU) technology (each as defined under the Novartis License Agreement) for use in bovine species products worldwide. The term of the Novartis License Agreement continues until the expiration of the last-to-expire of the licensed patent rights, product sales are terminated, or, generally, ten years after the initial product sales if licensed patent rights are not available on a country-by-country basis. The Novartis License Agreement provides that Novartis and AspenBio share development expenses and product sales margins under a splitting arrangement. AspenBios share of development expenses is in the low double-digit range. AspenBios share of the product sales margins varies depending upon the level of patent protection and competition on a country-by-country basis and varies from the very low to low double-digit range. AspenBio received an upfront cash payment of $2,000,000 under the Novartis License Agreement, of which 50% was non-refundable upon signing the agreement, and the balance is subject to certain conditions. In 2010, the conditions associated with $100,000 of such milestones were satisfied. Novartis has the right to request a refund of the $900,000 remaining milestone payment and/or terminate the agreement if the pilot study (as defined in the agreement) is not successful. This pilot study was completed during late 2010. NAH has informed us that preliminary pilot study results revealed failure of the pilot study to demonstrate the outcomes as defined in the success criteria, and NAH has requested a refund of the $900,000 milestone payment which is included in accrued expenses on the accompanying balance sheet. We received the final, detailed report of the pilot study from NAH and are in the process of reviewing it. NAH has indicated that they would defer the refund request until we have had an opportunity to review the final report. We plan to work with NAH to obtain additional information and understand the implications of the pilot study results on product development efforts under the Novartis License Agreement. The Novartis License Agreement contains customary terms for confidentiality, prosecution and infringement provisions for the license patent rights, indemnification and insurance coverage. The Novartis License Agreement is cancelable by Novartis on 180 days advance notice; immediately if a change in control transaction occurs and Novartis rights are not accommodated in good faith by the successor entity; or on 30 days notice on a country-by-country basis in the event designated legal or regulatory issues arise. AspenBio can terminate the agreement immediately if Novartis challenges the validity or enforceability of licensed patent rights or other licensed intellectual property. Either party may terminate if the other party materially breaches the Novartis License Agreement, and fails to cure such breach, becomes insolvent or if either party disposes of substantially all of the assets necessary for its performance under the terms of the agreement. In the event there is a change of ownership in AspenBio, Novartis may choose to assume all obligations under the agreement and generally remit net excess royalty amounts to the successor entity. In 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with WU, under which the Company obtained exclusive proprietary rights to WUs patent portfolio for use in the animal health industry. The Exclusive License Agreement (WU License Agreement) between AspenBio and WU was entered into effective May 1, 2004, and grants AspenBio an exclusive license and right to sublicense WUs technology (as defined under the WU License Agreement) for veterinary products worldwide, except where such products are prohibited for export under U.S. laws. The term of the WU License Agreement continues until the expiration of the last of WUs patents (as defined in the WU License Agreement) to expire. AspenBio has agreed to pay minimum annual royalties of $20,000 during the term of the WU License Agreement and such amounts are creditable against future royalties. Royalties payable to WU under the WU License Agreement for covered product sales by AspenBio carry a mid-single digit royalty rate and for sublicense fees received by AspenBio carry a low double-digit royalty rate. The WU License Agreement contains customary terms for confidentiality, prosecution and infringement provisions for licensed patents, publication rights, indemnification and insurance coverage. The WU License Agreement is cancelable by AspenBio with ninety days advance notice at any time and by WU with sixty days advance notice if AspenBio materially breaches the WU License Agreement and fails to cure such breach. Under the terms of the WU License Agreement, a portion of license fees and royalties AspenBio receives from sublicensing agreements will be paid to WU. The obligation for such front end fees, totaling $440,000, was recorded upon receipt of the Novartis license fees and in 2008 $190,000 was paid to WU. 16 For financial reporting purposes, the up-front license fees received from the Novartis License Agreement, net of the amounts due to WU, have been recorded as deferred revenue and are amortized over the term of the Novartis License Agreement. Milestone revenue is or will be recognized into income commencing with the date such milestones are achieved. During the year ended December 31, 2010, milestones totaling $100,000 associated with Novartis evaluation of additional products were achieved, triggering the commencement of amortization of $100,000 of deferred revenue. As of March 31, 2011, deferred revenue of $71,000 has been classified as a current liability and $616,000 has been classified as a long-term liability. The current liability includes the next twelve months portion of the amortizable milestone revenue. During each of the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, $18,000 and $16,000 was recorded as the amortized license fee revenue arising from the Novartis License Agreement. We have entered and expect to continue to enter into additional agreements with contract manufacturers for the development / manufacture of certain of our products for which we are seeking FDA approval. The goal of this development process is to establish current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) required for those products for which we are seeking FDA approval. These development and manufacturing agreements generally contain transfer fees and possible penalty and /or royalty provisions should we transfer our products to another contract manufacturer. We expect to continue to evaluate, negotiate and execute additional and expanded development and manufacturing agreements, some of which may be significant commitments during 2011. We may also consider acquisitions of development technologies or products, should opportunities arise that we believe fit our business strategy and would be appropriate from a capital standpoint. The Company periodically enters into generally short term consulting and development agreements primarily for product development, testing services and in connection with clinical trials conducted as part of the Companys FDA clearance process. Such commitments at any point in time may be significant but the agreements typically contain cancellation provisions. We have a permanent mortgage facility on our land and building that commenced in July 2003. The mortgage is held by a commercial bank and includes a portion guaranteed by the U. S. Small Business Administration. The loan is collateralized by the real property and is also personally guaranteed by a stockholder (our former president). The interest rate on the bank portion is one percentage over the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate (minimum 7%), with 7% being the approximate effective rate, and the SBA portion bears interest at the rate of 5.86%. The commercial bank portion of the loan requires total monthly payments of approximately $14,200, which includes approximately $9,700 per month in contractual interest, through June 2013 when the then remaining principal balance is due which is estimated to be approximately $1,607,000 at that time. The SBA portion of the loan requires total monthly payments of approximately $9,200 through July 2023, which includes approximately $4,500 per month in contractual interest and fees. In April 2008 the Board authorized a stock repurchase plan to purchase shares of our common stock up to a maximum of $5.0 million. Purchases may be made in routine, open market transactions, when management determines to effect purchases and any purchased shares of common stock are thereupon retired. Management may elect to purchase less than $5.0 million. The repurchase program allows us to repurchase our shares in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission on the open market, in block trades and in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. A total of approximately 232,000 common shares were purchased and retired in 2008 at a total cost of approximately $992,000. No repurchases have been made since 2008. We expect to continue to incur losses from operations for the near-term and these losses could be significant as we incur product development, contract consulting and product related expenses. We have also increased our overhead expenses with the hiring of additional management and scientific personnel. We believe that our current working capital position will be sufficient to meet our near-term needs. Our investments are maintained in relatively short term, high quality investments instruments, to ensure we have ready access to cash as needed. With the recent changes in market conditions, combined with our conservative investment policy and lower average investable balances due to cash consumption, we expect that our investment earnings in 2011 will be lower than in 2010. The Board of Directors has approved an investment policy covering the investment parameters to be followed with the primary goals being the safety of principal amounts and maintaining liquidity of the fund. The policy provides for minimum investment rating requirements as well as limitations on investment duration and concentrations. Commencing in the fourth quarter of 2008, based upon market conditions, the investment guidelines were tightened to raise the minimum acceptable investment ratings required for investments and shorten the maximum investment term. Current investment guidelines require investments to be made in investments with minimum ratings purchasing commercial paper with an A1/P1 rating, longer-term bonds with an A- rating or better, a maximum maturity of nine months and a concentration guideline of 10% (no security or issuer representing more than 10% of the portfolio). As of March 31, 2011, 84% of the investment portfolio was in cash equivalents which are included with cash and the remaining funds were invested in short term marketable securities with none individually representing more than 10% of the portfolio and none maturing past October 2011. To date, we have not experienced a cumulative market loss from the investments that has exceeded $5,000. Due to recent market events that have adversely affected all industries and the economy as a whole, management has placed increased emphasis on monitoring the risks associated with the current environment, particularly the investment parameters of the short term investments, the recoverability of current assets, the fair value of assets, and the Companys liquidity. At this point in time, there has not been a material impact on the Companys assets and liquidity. Management will continue to monitor the risks associated with the current environment and their impact on the Companys results. 17 Operating Activities Net cash consumed by operating activities was $2,152,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2011. Cash was consumed by the loss of $2,806,000, less non-cash expenses of $383,000 for stock-based compensation and $133,000 for depreciation, amortization and impairment charges. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, decreases in inventories and accounts receivable generated cash of $18,000. A decrease in prepaid and other current assets of $78,000 provided cash, primarily related to routine changes in operating activities. Cash used by operations included a $716,000 increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses in 2011 offset by a decrease of $675,000 in the deferred revenue, primarily due to the reclassification of the deferred revenue under the Novartis agreement. Net cash consumed by operating activities was $3,136,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2010. Cash was consumed by the loss of $3,871,000, less non-cash expenses of $595,000 for stock-based compensation and $107,000 for depreciation and amortization, impairment and other non-cash items. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, decreases in inventories and accounts receivable generated cash of $44,000 and $9,000 respectively. A net decrease of $48,000 in accounts payable and accrued expenses consumed cash from operating activities. Investing Activities Net cash inflows from investing activities generated $1,538,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2011. Sales of marketable securities totaled approximately $1,692,000. A $154,000 use of cash was attributable to additional costs incurred from patent filings and equipment additions. Net cash inflows from investing activities generated $394,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2010. Sales of marketable securities totaled approximately $510,000. An $116,000 use of cash was attributable to additional costs incurred from patent filings and equipment additions. Financing Activities Net cash outflows from financing activities consumed $153,000 during the three month period ended March 31, 2011 for repayments under existing debt agreements. Net cash inflows from financing activities generated $145,000 during the three month period ended March 31, 2010. The Company received proceeds of $172,000 from the exercise of common stock options and consumed $27,000 for repayments under existing debt agreements. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. The most significant accounting estimates inherent in the preparation of our financial statements include estimates associated with revenue recognition, impairment analysis of intangibles and stock-based compensation. The Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows are impacted by the accounting policies the Company has adopted. In order to get a full understanding of the Companys financial statements, one must have a clear understanding of the accounting policies employed. A summary of the Companys critical accounting policies follows: Investments: The Company invests excess cash from time to time in highly liquid debt and equity securities of highly rated entities which are classified as trading securities. Such amounts are recorded at market and are classified as current, as the Company does not intend to hold the investments beyond twelve months. Such excess funds are invested under the Companys investment policy but an unexpected decline or loss could have an adverse and material effect on the carrying value, recoverability or investment returns of such investments. The Board has approved an investment policy covering the investment parameters to be followed with the primary goals being the safety of principal amounts and maintaining liquidity of the fund. The policy provides for minimum investment rating requirements as well as limitations on investment duration and concentrations. Long-Lived Assets: The Company records property and equipment at cost. Depreciation of the assets is recorded on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Dispositions of property and equipment are recorded in the period of disposition and any resulting gains or losses are charged to income or expense when the disposal occurs. The carrying value of the Companys long-lived assets is reviewed at least annually to determine that such carrying amounts are not in excess of estimated market value. Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment by comparing the carrying value to the present value of its expected cash flows or future value. The required annual testing resulted in no impairment charges being recorded to date. 18 Revenue Recognition: The Companys revenues are recognized when products are shipped or delivered to unaffiliated customers. The Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, provides guidance on the application of generally accepted accounting principles to select revenue recognition issues. The Company has concluded that its revenue recognition policy is appropriate and in accordance with SAB No. 104. Revenue is recognized under development and distribution agreements only after the following criteria are met: (i) there exists adequate evidence of the transactions; (ii) delivery of goods has occurred or services have been rendered; and (iii) the price is not contingent on future activity and collectability is reasonably assured. Stock-based Compensation : ASC 718 (formerly - SFAS No. 123(R)), Share-Based Payment, defines the fair-value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans and transactions used by the Company to account for its issuances of equity instruments to record compensation cost for stock-based employee compensation plans at fair value as well as to acquire goods or services from non-employees. Transactions in which the Company issues stock-based compensation to employees, directors and advisors and for goods or services received from non-employees are accounted for based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued. The Company utilizes pricing models in determining the fair values of options and warrants issued as stock-based compensation. These pricing models utilize the market price of the Companys common stock and the exercise price of the option or warrant, as well as time value and volatility factors underlying the positions. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND STATEMENTS Certain statements in Managements Discussion and Analysis and other portions of this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby. These statements relate to future events or the Companys future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the Company or its industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, would, should, expect, plan, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, predict, potential or other comparable terminology. Please see the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as amended, for a discussion of certain important factors that relate to forward-looking statements contained in this report. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.