Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections contained in this document, and any subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware. You should read this document completely and with the understanding that our actual future results or events may be materially different from what we expect. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. INDUSTRY AND MARKET DATA Information regarding market and industry statistics contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been obtained from industry and other publications that we believe to be reliable, but that are not produced for purposes of securities filings. We have not independently verified any market, industry or similar data presented in this Annual Report and cannot assure you of its accuracy or completeness. Further, we have not reviewed or included data from all sources. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from third-party sources are subject to the same qualifications and the additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size, revenue and market acceptance of products and services. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on any such forecasts and other forward-looking information. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies Generally Distributed blockchain technology is a decentralized and encrypted ledger that is designed to offer a secure, efficient, verifiable, and permanent way of storing records and other information without the need for intermediaries. Cryptocurrencies serve multiple purposes. They can serve as a medium of exchange, store of value or unit of account. Examples of cryptocurrencies include: bitcoin, bitcoin cash, and litecoin. Blockchain technologies are being evaluated for a multitude of industries due to the belief in their ability to have a significant impact in many areas of business, finance, information management, and governance. Cryptocurrencies are decentralized currencies that enable near instantaneous transfers. Transactions occur via an open source, cryptographic protocol platform which uses peer-to-peer technology to operate with no central authority. The online network hosts the public transaction ledger, known as the blockchain, and each cryptocurrency is associated with a source code that comprises the basis for the cryptographic and algorithmic protocols governing the blockchain. In a cryptocurrency network, every peer has its own copy of the blockchain, which contains records of every historical transaction - effectively containing records of all account balances. Each account is identified solely by its unique public key (making it effectively anonymous) and is secured with its associated private key (kept secret, like a password). The combination of private and public cryptographic keys constitutes a secure digital identity in the form of a digital signature, providing strong control of ownership. No single entity owns or operates the network. The infrastructure is collectively maintained by a decentralized public user base. As the network is decentralized, it does not rely on either governmental authorities or financial institutions to create, transmit or determine the value of the currency units. Rather, the value is determined by market factors, supply and demand for the units, the prices being set in transfers by mutual agreement or barter among transacting parties, as well as the number of merchants that may accept the cryptocurrency. Since transfers do not require involvement of intermediaries or third parties, there are currently little to no transaction costs in direct peer-to-peer transactions. Units of cryptocurrency can be converted to fiat currencies, such as the US dollar, at rates determined on various exchanges, such as Cumberland, Coinsquare (in Canada), Coinbase, Bitsquare, Bitstamp, and others. Cryptocurrency prices are quoted on various exchanges and fluctuate with extreme volatility. We believe cryptocurrencies offer many advantages over traditional, fiat currencies, although many of these factors also present potential disadvantages and may introduce additional risks, including: acting as a fraud deterrent, as cryptocurrencies are digital and cannot be counterfeited or reversed arbitrarily by a sender; immediate settlement; elimination of counterparty risk; no trusted intermediary required; lower fees; identity theft prevention; accessible by everyone; transactions are verified and protected through a confirmation process, which prevents the problem of double spending; decentralized no central authority (government or financial institution); and recognized universally and not bound by government imposed or market exchange rates. However, cryptocurrencies may not provide all of the benefits they purport to offer at all or at any time. 4 Bitcoin was first introduced in 2008 and was first introduced as a means of exchange in 2009. Bitcoin is a consensus network that enables a new payment system and a completely new form of digital money. It is the first decentralized peer-to-peer payment network that is powered by its users with no central authority or middlemen. From a user perspective, we believe bitcoin can be viewed as cash for the Internet. The bitcoin network shares a public ledger called the blockchain. This ledger contains every transaction ever processed, allowing a user's computer to verify the validity of each transaction. The authenticity of each transaction is protected by digital signatures corresponding to the sending addresses, allowing all users to have full control over sending bitcoins currency rewards from their own bitcoin addresses. In addition, anyone can process transactions using the computing power of specialized hardware and earn a reward in bitcoins for this service. This process is often called mining. As with many new and emerging technologies, there are potentially significant risks. Businesses (including the Company) which are seeking to develop, promote, adopt, transact or rely upon blockchain technologies and cryptocurrencies have a limited track record and operate within an untested new environment. These risks are not only related to the businesses the Company pursues, but the sector and industry as a whole, as well as the entirety of the concept behind blockchain and cryptocurrency as value. Factors such as access to computer processing capacity, interconnectivity, electricity cost, environmental factors (such as cooling capacity) and location play an important role in mining, which is the term for using the specialized computers in connection with the blockchain for the creation of new units of cryptocurrency. Riots Business The Company, commencing in late 2017, concentrated on developing its cryptocurrency mining operations and investing in blockchain-focused technologies. The Company invested in several companies and internal initiatives with the intent of building and supporting blockchain technologies ecosystem. The Company experienced large accumulated historical losses from pre-2017 efforts to obtain regulatory approval for new medical devices and the manufacture and distribution of specialized medical equipment. These historical human life sciences businesses, excluding the animal health business, were shuttered following the adoption of the Companys strategic plan to shift to blockchain and cryptocurrency business. Blockchain and Cryptocurrency Mining The Company has built a cryptocurrency mining operation, operating specialized computers manufactured by BitmainTech PTE. LTD. (Bitmain) (also known as miners) that generate cryptocurrency (primarily bitcoin). As of December 31, 2018, the Company owned approximately 8,000 acquired as a result of the business combination with Kairos Global Technology, Inc. (Kairos) in November 2017 and in February 2018, two separate transactions acquired additional miners. During February 2018, Kairos entered into a lease agreement for an approximately 107,000-square foot facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, which included data center improvements. Upon the execution of the facility lease the Company began consolidating all of its miners at the data center facility. As of December 31, 2019, approximately 7,400 of the previously acquired miners were operating. During December 2019, the Company purchased 4,000 next generation Bitmain S17 Pro Antminers for approximately $6.4 million from Bitmain. In December 2019, 3,000 miners were received at the Companys Oklahoma City facility, and the remaining 1,000 were received in early 2020. As of December 31, 2019, the 3,000 received miners had not been placed in service; however, all of the 4,000 next generation miners were placed in service during the first quarter of 2020. Halving Further affecting the industry, and particularly for the bitcoin blockchain, the cryptocurrency reward for solving a block is subject to periodic incremental halving. Halving is a process designed to control the overall supply and reduce the risk of inflation in cryptocurrencies using a Proof-of-Work consensus algorithm. At a predetermined block, the mining reward is cut in half, hence the term halving. For bitcoin, the reward was initially set at 50 bitcoin currency rewards per block and this was cut in half to 25 in November 28, 2012 at block 210,000 and again to 12.5 on July 9, 2016 at block 420,000. The next halving for bitcoin is expected in May 2020 at block 630,000 when the reward will reduce to 6.25. This process will reoccur until the total amount of bitcoin currency rewards issued reaches 21 million, which is expected to occur around 2140. Similarly, litecoin first halved on August 25, 2015 at block 840,000 from 50 to 25 and the second halving occurred on August 5, 2019 at block 1,680,000 from 25 to 12.5. The next halving for litecoin is expected in August 2023 at block 2,520,000 when the reward will reduce to 6.25. Many factors influence the price of bitcoin and litecoin and potential increases or decreases in prices in advance of or following a future halving is unknown. Network Hash Rate and Difficulty In cryptocurrency mining, hash rate is a measure of the processing speed by a mining computer for a specific coin. An individual miner, such as Riot has a hash rate total of its miners seeking to mine a specific coin, and system wide there is a total has rate of all miners seeking to mine each specific type of coin. The higher total hash rate of a specific miner, as a percentage of the system wide total hash rate, generally results over time in a corresponding higher success rate in coin rewards as compared to miners with lower hash rates. 5 Difficulty is a relative measure of how complex the process is made to successfully solve the algorithm and obtain a coin award. The difficulty is adjusted periodically generally as a function of how much hashing power is deployed by the network of miners and designed to maintain certain mining results so that, on average, 10 minutes, is required to produce a block, currently producing a reward of 12.5 bitcoin. If the block is exceeding the 10-minute goal and miners are struggling with a target difficulty set too high, the network reduces it and vice versa, with this protocol called difficulty retargeting. At each interval of 2,016 blocks being mined (which takes roughly two weeks), the network re-analyzes the interval and revises the difficulty index, if needed. Mining Pools A mining pool is the pooling of resources by miners, who share their processing power over a network and split rewards according to the amount of work they contributed to the probability of placing a block on the blockchain. Mining pools emerged in response to the growing difficulty and available hashing power that competes to place a block on the bitcoin blockchain. The Company participates in mining pools wherein groups of miners associate to pool resources and earn cryptocurrency together allocated to each miner according to the hashing capacity they contribute to the pool. As additional miners competed for the limited supply of blocks, individuals found that they were working for months without finding a block and receiving any reward for their mining efforts. To address this variance, miners started organizing into pools to share mining rewards more evenly on a pro rata basis based on total hashing capacity contributed to the mining pool. The mining pool operator provides a service that coordinates the computing power of the independent mining enterprise. Fees are paid to the mining pool operator to cover the costs of maintaining the pool. The pool uses software that coordinates the pool members hashing power, identifies new block rewards, records how much work all the participants are doing, and assigns block rewards for successful algorithm solutions in-proportion to the individual hash rate that each participant contributed to a given successful mining transaction. While we do not pay pool fees directly, pool fees are deducted from amounts we may otherwise earn. Fees (and payouts) fluctuate and historically have been approximately 2% on average. Mining pools are subject to various risks such as disruption and down time. Riot has internally created software that monitors its hashing performance and reward rates to monitor credits for our contributed hashing power. In the event that a pool experiences down time or not yielding returns, our results may be impacted. Other Activities We have previously made targeted investments in, and acquisitions of, businesses and assets within the blockchain ecosystem. As of December 31, 2019, we owned approximately 11.7% of the equity interest of Coinsquare, Ltd. (Coinsquare), which operates a leading Canadian exchange for purchasing and selling cryptocurrencies. We also owned approximately 3.2% (on a fully diluted basis) of Verady, LLC (Verady). Verady provides accounting, audit and verification services for blockchain based assets such as cryptocurrencies. We also owned approximately 8.8% of TessPay Inc., (Tess). Tess is developing TessPay (TessPay) and other blockchain solutions for telecommunications companies. Until April 2019, we owned over 50% of Tess and it was included in our consolidated financial statements until our ownership was reduced due to subsequent financings by Tess. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we formed Digital Green Energy Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary, which sought to identify environmentally friendly projects with large energy capacity and a cost-effective rate for energy for cryptocurrency mining operations and data center projects. Due to regulatory changes in the target region as well as the decline in the price of various cryptocurrencies, we have suspended work at this subsidiary. Digital Green Energys operations during 2019 and 2018 were not significant. Logical Brokerage Corp/RiotX On March 27, 2018, we acquired 92.5% of Logical Brokerage Corp. (Logical Brokerage also known as RiotX) for a $600,000 cash payment, which was accounted for as an asset acquisition. Logical Brokerage is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) as an introducing broker and a member of the National Futures Association (NFA). As of December 31, 2019, the Company, after evaluating the RiotX business plan with the advice and guidance of its Advisory Board consisting of bitcoin and blockchain thought leaders, determined to focus on its core cryptocurrency mining business and therefore, to not move forward with the RiotX / Logical Brokerage business development plan. The Company considered a number of factors when evaluating the RiotX decision including, but not limited to, the evolving regulatory environment, cybersecurity risks, and the current competitive landscape facing U.S. based cryptocurrency exchanges. The Company is exploring possible options for Logical Brokerage, but no option is expected to generate any material return to the Company. Business Profile and Risks The decision to pursue blockchain and cryptocurrency businesses exposes the Company to risks associated with a new and untested strategic direction. The prices of cryptocurrencies have experienced substantial volatility, which may reflect bubble type volatility, meaning that high or low prices may have little or no merit, may be subject to rapidly changing investor sentiment, and may be influenced by factors such as technology, regulatory void or changes, fraudulent actors, manipulation, and media reporting. The results of the Companys mining operations in generating and reporting revenues from its mining operations are reported under the fair value method of accounting under present accounting rules. 6 Competition In cryptocurrency mining, companies, individuals and groups generate units of cryptocurrency through mining. Miners can range from individual enthusiasts to professional mining operations with dedicated data centers. Miners may organize themselves in mining pools. The Company competes or may in the future compete with other companies that focus all or a portion of their activities on owning or operating cryptocurrency exchanges, developing programming for the blockchain, and mining activities. At present, the information concerning the activities of these enterprises is not readily available as the vast majority of the participants in this sector do not publish information publicly or the information may be unreliable. Published sources of information include bitcoin.org and blockchain.info; however, the reliability of that information and its continued availability cannot be assured. Several public companies (traded in the U.S. and Internationally), such as the following, may be considered to compete with us, although we believe there is no company, including the following, which engages in the same scope of activities as we do. Overstock.com Inc. Bitcoin Investment Trust Blockchain Industries, Inc. (formerly Omni Global Technologies, Inc.) Bitfarms Technologies Ltd. (formerly Blockchain Mining Ltd) DMG Blockchain Solutions Inc. Digihost International, Inc. Hive Blockchain Technologies Inc. Hut 8 Mining Corp. HashChain Technology, Inc. MGT Capital Investments, Inc. DPW Holdings, Inc. Layer1 Technologies, LLC Northern Data AG While there is limited available information regarding our non-public competitors, we believe that our recent acquisition and deployment of 4,000 Bitmain S17 Pro Antminers (as discussed further below) positions us well among the publicly traded companies involved in the cryptocurrency mining industry. The cryptocurrency industry is a highly competitive and evolving industry and new competitors and/or emerging technologies could enter the market and affect our competitiveness in the future. For more information regarding those risk factors known to us, see the section entitled Risk Factors herein. Cryptocurrency Mining - Operation Riot operates a recently updated cryptocurrency mining facility for the sole purpose of mining cryptocurrencies (primarily bitcoin, and to a much lesser degree litecoin and bitcoin cash). Our facility and mining platform are operating with the primary intent of accumulating bitcoin which we may sell for fiat currency from time to time depending on market conditions and managements determination of our cash flow needs. Our mining operation in Oklahoma hosted about 8,000 ASIC miners during 2018 and 2019 which have access to approximately 12 megawatts of power supplied to our leased facility. During December 2019, the Company purchased 4,000 next generation Bitmain S17 Pro Antminers which have now been installed and are currently operating in our Oklahoma City, Oklahoma mining facility. The Company is currently evaluating plans for its miners previously acquired in 2017 / 2018, which currently have been taken offline. 7 These 4,000 next generation Bitmain S17 Pro Antminers are capable of producing a substantial increase in our total available hashing rate (as discussed further below), at a significant efficiency increase over our S9 miners. The approximate hashing rate generated from our mining operation during 2018-2019, from our approximately 7,500 S9 miners generally ranged from 80-100 petahash per second (PH/s); whereas, the estimated maximum hashing rate generated by our 4,000 next generation Bitmain S17 Pro Antminers currently installed in our OKC mine is 248 (PH/s) at full deployment. This significant increase in total hashing rate is achieved by approximately half the total number of miners. The above information regarding approximate maximum hashing rates are estimates only and the actual outputs of the mine are subject to changes based in part on the difficulty rates associated with the bitcoin network, as well as other conditions that impact our mining output. The following table presents additional information about our cryptocurrencies activity in coins and amounts ($ in thousands): Quantities (in coins) Cryptocurrencies BTC LTC BCH Amounts Balance at January 1, 2018 8 86 29 $ 200 Revenue recognized from cryptocurrencies mined 1,020 3,023 479 7,749 Mining pool operating fees (155 ) Purchase of cryptocurrencies 500 5,625 Sale / trade of cryptocurrencies (1,364 ) (27 ) (508 ) (9,237 ) Realized gain on sale of cryptocurrencies 26 Impairment of cryptocurrencies (3,501 ) Balance at December 31, 2018 164 3,082 707 Revenue recognized from cryptocurrencies mined 944 3,477 500 6,741 Mining pool operating fees (135 ) Purchase of miner equipment with cryptocurrencies (9 ) (99 ) Sale / trade of cryptocurrencies (585 ) (3,110 ) (499 ) (3,196 ) Realized gain on sale of cryptocurrencies 665 Impairment of cryptocurrencies (844 ) Balance at December 31, 2019 514 3,449 1 $ 3,839 Performance Metrics Hashing Riot operates mining hardware which performs computational operations in support of the blockchain measured in hash rate or hashes per second. A hash is the computation run by mining hardware in support of the blockchain; therefore, a miners hash rate refers to the rate at which it is capable of solving such computations. The original equipment used for mining bitcoin utilized the Central Processing Unit (CPU) of a computer to mine various forms of cryptocurrency. Due to performance limitations, CPU mining was rapidly replaced by the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), which offers significant performance advantages over CPUs. General purpose chipsets like CPUs and GPUs have since been replaced in the mining industry by Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASIC) chips like those found in the Bitmain S9 Antiminers and the next generation Bitmain S17 Pro Antiminers currently utilized by Riot at its mining facility. These ASIC chips are designed specifically to maximize the rate of hashing operations. Riot measures our mining performance and competitive position based on overall hash rate being produced in our mining sites. The latest equipment utilized in Riots OKC mining operation, the Bitmain S17 Pro Antminer, performs in the range of approximately 50 - 62 terahash per second (TH/s) per unit. This mining hardware is on the cutting edge of available mining equipment and we believe our acquisition of 4,000 units places us among leaders of publicly-traded cryptocurrency miners; however, advances and improvements to the technology are ongoing and may be available in quantities to the market in the near future which may affect our perceived position. We believe that our current inventory of 4,000 Bitmain S17 Pro Antminers establishes us among the top public companies in the United States mining cryptocurrency. Government Regulation Government regulation of blockchain and cryptocurrency is being actively considered by the United States federal government via a number of agencies and regulatory bodies, as well as similar entities in other countries. State government regulations also may apply to our activities such and other activities in which we participate or may participate in the future. Other regulatory bodies are governmental or semi-governmental and have shown an interest in regulating or investigating companies engaged in the blockchain or cryptocurrency business. Regulations may substantially change in the future and it is presently not possible to know how regulations will apply to our businesses, or when they will be effective. As the regulatory and legal environment evolves, we may become subject to new laws, further regulation by the SEC and other agencies, which may affect our mining and other activities. For instance, various bills have also been proposed in Congress related to our business, which may be adopted and have an impact on us. For additional discussion regarding our belief about the potential risks existing and future regulation pose to our business, see the Section entitled Risk Factors herein. 8 Intellectual Property We actively use specific hardware and software for our cryptocurrency mining operation. In certain cases, source code and other software assets may be subject to an open source license, as much technology development underway in this sector is open source. For these works, Riot intends to adhere to the terms of any license agreements that may be in place. We do not currently own, and do not have any current plans to seek, any patents in connection with our existing and planned blockchain and cryptocurrency related operations. We do expect to rely upon trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights and other intellectual property rights and expect to license the use of intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. In addition, we have developed and may further develop certain proprietary software applications for purposes of our cryptocurrency mining operation. Legacy Business - Animal Health IP We continue to own and maintain an animal health patent portfolio which originated under the exclusive license agreement with Washington University in St. Louis (WU or Washington University in St. Louis), under which we obtained intellectual property rights to WU's patent estate. This extensive portfolio consists of patents related to our animal health products that we previously had under development. The term of the WU License Agreement continues until the expiration of the WUs patents (as defined in the WU License Agreement). We reimburse WU for the costs of patent filings, namely prosecution and maintenance fees. Additional patents in the animal health portfolio have been filed by us outside of the WU License Agreement. A patent filing for the recombinant luteinizing hormone technology was submitted in 2004, entitled Methods and Kits for Maintaining Pregnancy, Treating Follicular Cysts, and Synchronizing Ovulation Using Luteinizing Hormone. This patent family claims methods of administering rLH, the timing of administration, and dosage given in order to increase formation of accessory corpora lutea and maintain pregnancies in treated animals. To date, five foreign patents have been granted for Methods and Kits for Maintaining Pregnancy, Treating Follicular Cysts, and Synchronizing Ovulation Using Luteinizing Hormone, New Zealand patent 542549 was granted March 12, 2009 (expiring March 2024), Australia 2004218365 was granted May 27, 2010 (expiring March 2024), European patent 1610803 was granted December 15, 2010 (expiring March 2024), Canadian patent 2518268 was granted December 10, 2013 (expiring March 2024) and Brazil was granted May 31, 2016 (expiring March 4, 2026). The patent was granted by the European Patent Office and has been validated in the following countries: Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Currently, there are additional foreign patent applications that are in prosecution. A patent filing for the recombinant bovine follicle stimulating hormone technology was submitted in 2008, entitled Compositions and Methods Including Expression and Bioactivity of Bovine Follicle Stimulating Hormone. This patent family claims the rbFSH single-chain itself, as well as methods of administering rbFSH, the timing of administration, and dosage given in order to increase reproduction, induce superovulation or increase embryo production in ungulates. In October of 2011, the first patent in this family was granted by the European Patent Office (2134165), expiring October 12, 2028. The patent has also been granted in New Zealand (579740), expiring October 1, 2028. Following the grant of the patent in 2011 by the European Patent Office, the patent was validated in the following countries: France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. In August 2013, the patent was granted in the United States (8518881 B2) expiring February 8, 2028, followed in November 2013 by the grant in Australia (2008213567) expiring February 8, 2028. The patent was granted for Canada (2,685,437) on June 2, 2015 and will expire February 8, 2028. Currently, there are additional foreign patent applications that are in prosecution. A patent filing for the equine follicle stimulating hormone technology was filed in 2008, entitled Activity of Recombinant Equine Follicle Stimulating Hormone. This patent family provides coverage for the single chain eFSH itself, methods of administering reFSH, the timing of administration, and dosage given in order to increase reproductive activity in treated animals. The first patent in the patent family was granted in China in April 2013 (200880123523.8) expiring November 28, 2028. The U.S. Patent for this family was granted in September 2014 (8,835,386) expiring November 28, 2028. The patent was granted for Canada (2,685,437) on June 2, 2015 and will expire February 8, 2028. The European patent was granted in August 2018 (2244717), expires November 2028 and includes the following countries: Belgium, Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy and the Netherlands. Currently, there are additional foreign patent applications that are in prosecution. The Company's animal health intellectual property has been licensed under the long-term agreement Ceva agreement under which the licensee continues to develop drugs for commercial use in non-human mammals. 9 Research and Development As part of our normal operating activities we actively explore advanced methods of managing cryptocurrency mining operations at scale. This includes monitoring software, management tools, and programmable hardware components for gathering data and the configuration of mining equipment. This work includes software tools supporting at scale management of the Bitmain Antminer family of systems. These devices have an application interface that is accessible to users for the purposes of automation, monitoring and software maintenance. The existing software that is provided directly from the manufacturer is not designed for the scale or size of our operation. The mining operations rely on this technology to help streamline our daily system management, provide near real time reporting of faults and deliver configuration updates to the entire fleet of miners. We have also adapted these technologies to leverage cloud computing in order to offer access to these tools across a global footprint of mining sites. Our costs to date in such development activities have been nominal. Employees As of March 10, 2020, we had six full-time employees. We believe our employee relations to be good. Currently, our activities rely on the services of three individual consultants under support agreements to manage and maintain our miners. Corporate Information Our principal executive office is located at 202 6 th Street, Suite 401, Castle Rock, CO 80104, which is where our records are kept and the principal business address for our Chief Executive Officer and accounting staff. Our principal operating location which was leased in 2018 is a 107,000-square foot data center facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Our Florida office is a leased 1,700 square foot office space which opened in 2018 and is located at One Financial Plaza, 100 SE 3 rd Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33394. We were incorporated on July 24, 2000 in the State of Colorado under the name AspenBio, Inc., which was subsequently changed to AspenBio Pharma, Inc. We have gone through several subsequent name changes: in December 2012, we changed our name to Venaxis, Inc.; in 2016 we changed our name to Bioptix, Inc.; and, effective October 19, 2017 we adopted our present corporate name, Riot Blockchain, Inc. and changed our state of incorporation to Nevada. Our website address is www.riotblockchain.com. Our telephone number is (303) 794-2000. Available Information You can access, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports as filed with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended on the SECs website www.sec.gov. These documents may also be accessed on our website: www.riotblockchain.com . These documents are placed on our website as soon as is reasonably practicable after their filing with the SEC. The information contained in, or that can be accessed through, the website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Companys common stock involves a high degree of risk, and an investor should only purchase the Companys securities if he or she can afford to suffer the loss of his or her entire investment. In determining whether to purchase the Companys common stock, an investor should carefully consider all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report and the Companys other public filings before making a decision to purchase the Companys securities. In addition to the risks discussed below, other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results and events may differ substantially from those discussed or highlighted in those forward-looking statements. See also the Section entitled Forward-Looking Statements on Page 3 of this Annual Report of Form 10-K . General Risks We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability; we have recently shifted our focus to our blockchain and cryptocurrency mining business, and we may not be successful in this business. We are not profitable and have incurred losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses could increase as we continue to work to develop our business. We were previously engaged in animal health and life science-oriented businesses and were not successful in those businesses. In late 2017, we determined to instead pursue a blockchain and cryptocurrency related business, initially through investments in existing companies. Currently, our primary operations are focused on our cryptocurrency mining business located at our cryptocurrency mining facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Our current strategy is new and unproven, is in an industry that is itself new and evolving and is subject to the risks discussed below. This strategy, like our prior ones, may not be successful, and we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. 10 We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximate balances of cash and cash equivalents of $7.4 million, working capital of $9.3 million, total stockholders' equity of $26.2 million and an accumulated deficit of $217.2 million. To date, we have, in large part, relied on equity financings to fund our operations. Our primary focus is on our digital currency mining operation located in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, along with our investments in Coinsquare, Verady and Tess. Our current strategy will continue to expose us to the numerous risks and volatility associated within this sector. We expect to continue to incur losses from operations for the near-term and these losses could be significant as we incur costs and expenses associated with recent investments and potential future acquisitions, as well as public company, legal and administrative related expenses. We are closely monitoring our cash balances, cash needs and expense levels. Our mining operating costs outpace our mining revenues, which could seriously harm our business or increase our losses. Our mining operations are costly and our expenses may increase in the future. This expense increase may not be offset by a corresponding increase in revenue. Our expenses may be greater than we anticipate, and our investments to make our business more efficient may not succeed and may outpace monetization efforts. Increases in our costs without a corresponding increase in our revenue would increase our losses and could seriously harm our business and financial performance. If we are unable to successfully renew our lease for our Oklahoma City, Oklahoma cryptocurrency mining facility on acceptable terms or otherwise relocate to a replacement facility, our operations may be disrupted, and our business results may suffer. On May 15, 2020, the current term of the existing lease of our cryptocurrency mining facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (our mine) expires. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully renew the lease on terms acceptable to the Company. Although we have been successful in renewing the lease in the past, there can be no assurances that our landlord will permit us to renew or that we will be able to negotiate terms acceptable to both our management team and the landlord. If we are unable to successfully negotiate an extension of our existing lease, we may be forced to relocate our mine to another facility. If we are forced to relocate our mine, we may not be successful in identifying adequate replacement facilities to house our miners. And even if we do identify such facilities, we may not be successful in leasing those facilities at rates that are economically viable to support our mining activities. Relocating our mine will require us to incur costs to transition to a new facility including, but not limited to, transportation expenses and insurance, downtime while we are unable to mine, legal fees to negotiate the new lease, de-installation at our current facility and, ultimately, installation at any new facility we identify. These costs may be substantial, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in transitioning our miners to a new facility. If we are required to move our mine, or if negotiations to renew our existing lease on our Oklahoma City, Oklahoma facility result in unfavorable terms for our mine, our business may suffer and the results of our operations may be adversely affected. We may be unable to raise additional capital needed to grow our business. We will likely continue to operate at a loss, at least until our business becomes established, or if cryptocurrency prices decline, and we expect to need to raise additional capital to expand our operations and pursue our growth strategies, including potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, and to respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could impair our growth and adversely affect our existing operations. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in additional debt financing, the holders of debt likely would have priority over the holders of common stock on order of payment preference. We may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, take other actions including terms that require us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios that could otherwise not be in the interests of our stockholders. We have an evolving business model which is subject to various uncertainties. As cryptocurrency assets and blockchain technologies become more widely available, we expect the services and products associated with them to evolve. In order to stay current with the industry, our business model may need to evolve as well. From time to time, we may modify aspects of our business model relating to our strategy. We cannot offer any assurance that these or any other modifications will be successful or will not result in harm to our business. We may not be able to manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. Further, we cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully identify all emerging trends and growth opportunities in this business sector and we may lose out on those opportunities. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations. 11 We may acquire other businesses, form joint ventures or acquire other companies or businesses that could negatively affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense; notwithstanding the foregoing, our growth may depend on our success in uncovering and completing such transactions. We are actively considering strategic opportunities with the support of our external advisors, however, we cannot offer any assurance that acquisitions of businesses, assets and/or entering into strategic alliances or joint ventures will be successful. We may not be able to find suitable partners or acquisition candidates and may not be able to complete such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into the existing business and could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Any future acquisitions also could result in the issuance of stock, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or future write-offs of intangible assets or goodwill, any of which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Integration of an acquired company may also disrupt ongoing operations and require management resources that otherwise would be focused on developing and expanding our existing business. We may experience losses related to potential investments in other companies, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, strategic alliance or joint venture if such investments do not materialize. To finance any acquisitions or joint ventures, we may choose to issue shares of common stock, preferred stock or a combination of debt and equity as consideration, which could significantly dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders or provide rights to such preferred stock holders in priority over our common stock holders. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies or fund a joint venture project using stock as consideration. We may not be able to compete with other companies, some of whom have greater resources and experience. We may not be able to compete successfully against present or future competitors. We do not have the resources to compete with larger providers of similar services at this time. The cryptocurrency industry has attracted various high-profile and well-established operators, some of which have substantially greater liquidity and financial resources than we do. With the limited resources we have available, we may experience great difficulties in expanding and improving our network of computers to remain competitive. Competition from existing and future competitors, particularly Facebook, Inc. and the many Canadian companies that have access to more competitively priced energy, could result in our inability to secure acquisitions and partnerships that we may need to expand our business in the future. This competition from other entities with greater resources, experience and reputations may result in our failure to maintain or expand our business, as we may never be able to successfully execute our business plan. If we are unable to expand and remain competitive, our business could be negatively affected which would have an adverse effect on the trading price of our securities, which would harm investors in our Company. Facebooks development of a cryptocurrency may adversely affect the value of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. In May 2019, Facebook announced its plans for a cryptocurrency called Libra, which faced significant government intervention. The massive social network and 27 other partners are estimating that the Libra digital coin and Facebooks corresponding digital wallet, Calibra, would be a way to make sending payments around the world as easy as it is to send a photo. Facebooks significant resources and ability to engage the world via social media may enable it to bring Libra to market rapidly and to deploy it across industries more rapidly and successfully than previous cryptocurrencies. Facebooks size and market share may cause its cryptocurrency to succeed to the detriment and potential exclusion of existing cryptocurrencies, such as our primary cryptocurrency asset, bitcoin. The properties included in our mining network may experience damages, including damages that are not covered by insurance. Our current mining operation in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma is, and any future mines we establish will be, subject to a variety of risks relating to physical condition and operation, including: the presence of construction or repair defects or other structural or building damage; any noncompliance with or liabilities under applicable environmental, health or safety regulations or requirements or building permit requirements; any damage resulting from natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and windstorms; and claims by employees and others for injuries sustained at our properties. For example, our mine could be rendered inoperable, temporarily or permanently, as a result of a fire or other natural disaster or by a terrorist or other attack on the mine. The security and other measures we take to protect against these risks may not be sufficient. Additionally, our mine could be materially adversely affected by a power outage or loss of access to the electrical grid or loss by the grid of cost-effective sources of electrical power generating capacity. Given the power requirement, it would not be feasible to run miners on back-up power generators in the event of a power outage. Our insurance covers the replacement cost of any lost or damaged miners, but does not cover any interruption of our mining activities; our insurance therefore may not be adequate to cover the losses we suffer as a result of any of these events. In the event of an uninsured loss, including a loss in excess of insured limits, at any of the mines in our network, such mines may not be adequately repaired in a timely manner or at all and we may lose some or all of the future revenues anticipated to be derived from such mines. The potential impact on our business is currently magnified because we are only operating a single mine. 12 Our loss of any of our management team, our inability to execute an effective succession plan, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could adversely affect our business. Our success and future growth will depend to a significant degree on the skills and services of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. We will need to continue to grow our management in order to alleviate pressure on our existing team and in order to continue to develop our business. If our management, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, if we fail to execute an effective contingency or succession plan with the loss of any member of management, the loss of such management personnel may significantly disrupt our business. The loss of key members of management could inhibit our growth prospects. Our future success also depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key management and operating personnel. As we continue to develop and expand our operations, we may require personnel with different skills and experiences, and who have a sound understanding of our business and the cryptocurrency industry. The market for highly qualified personnel in this industry is very competitive and we may be unable to attract such personnel. If we are unable to attract such personnel, our business could be harmed. We, and some of our current officers and directors, have been named as parties to various lawsuits arising out of, or related to, allegedly false and misleading statements made in prior securities filings, and those lawsuits could adversely affect us, require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages, and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. A number of securities class action complaints and a stockholder derivative action have been filed against us and certain of our current officers and directors, as described more fully in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Stockholders have filed three class action complaints against us in three states, accusing us of violations of the federal securities laws based on purported material misrepresentations or omissions allegedly made by the Company. Each class action complaint seeks unspecified money damages and other relief on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock between November 13, 2017 and February 15, 2018. The stockholder derivative case alleges similar disclosure violations and seeks unspecified monetary damages and corporate governance reforms. If these matters cannot be resolved expeditiously, managements attention may be diverted to this matter and there can be no assurance that the litigation would be settled. If the current litigation proceeds or if additional claims are filed, the legal and other costs associated with the defense of these actions and their ultimate outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we expect insurance to cover many of the costs associated with defending such litigation, including claims for indemnification made by our existing and former management team and members of our Board of Directors, insurance coverage may be insufficient and could require a diversion of our resources. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. We incur significant costs and demands upon management and accounting and finance resources as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies; if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our reputation . As a public reporting company, we are required to, among other things, maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting