Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Comparative Results for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2010, totaled $142,000, which is a $60,000 or 73% increase from the 2009 period. The increase in sales is primarily attributable to the timing of customer orders in the three months ended March 31, 2010 as a result of the Companys strategic decision to suspend antigen production and focus available scientific resources on the appendicitis and single-chain animal product development. In April 2008, the Company entered into a long term exclusive license and commercialization agreement to develop and launch the Companys novel recombinant single-chain bovine products. The total payments received under this agreement were recorded as deferred revenue and will be recognized in the future, with $16,000 of such license fee recognized in the each of the three month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2010 totaled $66,000 which is a $51,000 or 44% decrease as compared to the 2009 period. As a percentage of sales, there was a gross profit of 54% in the 2010 period as compared to a gross loss of 42% in the 2008 period. The improvement in the gross profit percentage resulted from lower product costs, arising from the write down of antigen inventories that occurred as of December 31, 2009. In addition, cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2010 did not include the application of certain fixed overhead costs due to the suspension of the production of antigen products in 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2010, totaled $1,884,000, which is a $562,000 or 43% increase as compared to the 2009 period. The advancing of the AppyScore product in clinical trials and 510(k) activities with the FDA has resulted in the hiring of additional personnel resulted in approximately $255,000 of additional expenses in the 2010 period, which included approximately $95,000 in additional employee related stock based compensation expense in 2010 over 2009 amounts. During the three months ended March 31, 2010 stock based compensation increased by $207,000 of which $139,000 related to options granted to animal health advisors. Selling, general and administrative expenses also increased in the three months ended March 31, 2010 by an additional $51,000 in insurance related costs primarily due to increased staff and an increase in the coverage on the Companys insurance limits. 13 Research and development expenses in the 2010 period totaled $2,044,000, which is a $628,000 or 44% increase as compared to the 2009 period. Development efforts and advances on the appendicitis test, including product development advances, the clinical trial, FDA submission related activities and market research resulted in an expense increase in 2010 of approximately $513,000. In addition, the development expenses on the single-chain animal products increased approximately $37,000. Additions to research staff, including temporary contract personnel, to support accelerating development efforts, increased expenses by approximately $64,000. Primarily as a result of the lower levels of cash and reduced investment returns in 2010 as compared to 2009, interest income of approximately $12,000 was earned in 2010 as compared to $76,000 in 2009. No income tax benefit was recorded on the loss for the three months ended March 31, 2010, as management was unable to determine that it was more likely than not that such benefit would be realized. Liquidity and Capital Resources We reported a net loss of $3,871,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2010, which included $702,000 in non-cash expenses relating to stock-based compensation totaling $595,000 and depreciation, amortization and other items totaling $109,000. At March 31, 2010, we had working capital of $8,012,000. As of May 5, 2010 we completed an equity financing as described in Note 9. Had we closed such financing as of March 31, 2010 our pro forma working capital would have been approximately $17 million. We believe that our current working capital position is sufficient to continue with the technology development activities and support the current level of operations for the near term. Our primary focus currently is to continue the development activities on the appendicitis and single chain products in order to attempt to continue to secure near-term value from these products from either generating revenues directly from sales of the products or entering licensing agreements for their rights. Capital expenditures, primarily for production, laboratory and facility improvement costs for the remainder of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 are anticipated to total approximately $200,000 to $400,000. We anticipate these capital expenditures to be financed through working capital. We anticipate that expenditures for research and development for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 will generally be consistent with or decrease slightly as compared to the amounts expended in 2009, primarily due to lower expenses based on the recently completed AppyScore clinical trial being offset by higher cassette and instrument development and trial expenses in 2010. Development and testing costs in support of the current pipeline products as well as costs to file patents and revise and update previous filings on our technologies will continue to be substantial. Our principal development products consist of the appendicitis evaluation and the single-chain animal hormone products. As we continue towards commercialization of these products, including evaluation of alternatives for possible product management and distribution alternatives and implications of product manufacturing and associated carrying costs all of which will impact our future capital needs. Certain costs such as manufacturing and license / royalty agreements have different financial, logistical and operational implications depending upon the ultimate strategic commercialization path determined. We expect that our primary expenditures will be incurred to continue to advance our initital appendicitis blood test technology, AppyScore through the FDA clearance process in addition to advancing development of the cassette and instrument version of the appendicitis test products. During the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, we expended approximately $1,542,000 and $1,056,000, respectively in direct costs for the appendicitis test development and related efforts. While commercialization of the appendicitis product will be an ongoing and evolving process with subsequent generations and improvements being made in the test, we believe that 2010 will reflect significant progress in advancing and commercializing the test. Should we be unable to achieve FDA clearance of the AppyScore test and generate revenues from the product, we would need to rely on other product opportunities to generate revenues and costs that we have incurred for the appendicitis patent may be deemed impaired. In May 2003, we signed the Assignement and Conusultation Agreement (Bealer Agreement) with Dr. John Bealer, which contains, provisions certain royalty obligations once the appendicitis product would be commercialized. In April 2008 we entered into a long term exclusive license and commercialization agreement with Novartis Animal Health, Inc., (Novartis) to develop and launch our novel recombinant single-chain bovine products, BoviPure LH and BoviPure FSH. The license agreement is a collaborative arrangement that provides for a sharing of product development activities, development and registration costs and worldwide product sales for the bovine species. We received an upfront cash payment of $2,000,000, of which 50% was non-refundable upon signing the agreement and the balance is subject to certain conditions which we expect to be substantially achieved in 2010. Ongoing royalties will be payable upon product launch based upon net direct product margins as defined and specified under the agreement. During the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, we expended approximately $83,000 and $79,000, respectively in direct costs for the BoviPure LH and BoviPure FSH product development and related efforts. 14 We have entered and expect to continue to enter into additional agreements with contract manufacturers for the development / manufacture of certain of our products for which we are seeking FDA approval. The ultimate goal of this development process is to establish current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) manufacturing methods required for those products for which we are seeking FDA approval. We continue in discussions with other potential manufacturers who meet full cGMP requirements, and are capable of large-scale manufacturing batches of our medical devices who can economically manufacture them to produce products at an acceptable cost. These development and manufacturing agreements generally contain transfer fees and possible penalty and /or royalty provisions should we transfer our products to another contract manufacturer. We expect to continue to evaluate, negotiate and execute additional development and manufacturing agreements, some of which may be significant commitments during 2010. We may also consider acquisitions of development technologies or products, should opportunities arise that we believe fit our business strategy and would be appropriate from a capital standpoint. The Company periodically enters into generally short term consulting and development agreements primarily for product development, testing services and in connection with clinical trials conducted as part of the Companys FDA clearance process. Such commitments at any point in time may be significant but the agreements typically contain cancellation provisions. We have a permanent mortgage facility on our land and building. The mortgage is held by a commercial bank and includes a portion guaranteed by the U. S. Small Business Administration. The loan is collateralized by the real property and is also personally guaranteed by a stockholder. The average approximate interest rate is 7% and the loan requires monthly payments of approximately $23,700 through June 2013 with approximately $1,607,000 of the then remaining principal balance due July 2013 and the balance payable through August 2023. During the three months ended March 31, 2010, we received cash proceeds of $172,000 from the exercise of 201,043 options. In April, 2008 our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan to purchase shares of our common stock up to a maximum of $5.0 million. Purchases are being made in routine, open market transactions, when management determines to effect purchases and any purchased common shares are thereupon retired. Management may elect to purchase less than $5.0 million. The repurchase program allows us to repurchase our shares in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission on the open market, in block trades and in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program is being funded using our working capital. A total of approximately 232,000 common shares were purchased and retired in 2008 at a total cost of approximately $992,000 and no purchases have subsequently been made. We expect to continue to incur losses from operations for the near-term and these losses could be significant as we incur product development, contract consulting and product related expenses. We have also increased our overhead expenses with the hiring of additional management personnel. We believe that our current working capital position will be sufficient to meet our near-term needs. Our investments are maintained in relatively short term, high quality investments instruments, to ensure we have ready access to cash as needed. With the recent changes in market conditions, combined with our conservative investment policy and lower average investable balances due to cash consumption, we expect that our investment earnings in 2010 will be lower than in 2009. Our Board of Directors has approved an investment policy covering the investment parameters to be followed with the primary goals being the safety of principal amounts and maintaining liquidity of the fund. The policy provides for minimum investment rating requirements as well as limitations on investment duration and concentrations. Commencing in the fourth quarter of 2008, based upon market conditions, the investment guidelines were temporarily tightened to raise the minimum acceptable investment ratings required for investments and shorten the maximum investment term. Current investment guidelines require investments to be made in investments with minimum ratings purchasing commercial paper with an A1/P1 rating, longer-term bonds with an A- rating or better, a maximum maturity of nine months and a concentration guideline of 10% (no security or issuer representing more than 10% of the portfolio). As of March 31, 2010 100% of the investment portfolio was in cash equivalents which are included with cash. On April 30, 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with a placement agent relating to a registered direct offering by the Company of up to an aggregate of 2,409,639 units (Units). Each Unit consists of one share of the Companys no par value common stock and one warrant to purchase 0.285 shares of common stock. Accordingly, a total of 2,409,639 common shares and warrants to purchase 686,746 shares of common stock, were issued at closing, which occurred on May 5, 2010. The per share exercise price of the warrants is $4.82. The warrants are exercisable at any time on or after the date of closing and will expire eight months from the date of closing. The sale of the Units was made pursuant to Subscription Agreements, dated April 30, 2010, with each of the investors. The investors agreed to purchase the Units for a negotiated price of $4.15 per Unit, resulting in gross proceeds to the Company of approximately $10.0 million, before deducting placement agents fees and estimated offering expenses. The net offering proceeds to the Company from the sale of the Units, after deducting fees and other estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, are expected to be approximately $9.1 million. 15 Due to recent market events that have adversely affected all industries and the economy as a whole, management has placed increased emphasis on monitoring the risks associated with the current environment, particularly the investment parameters of the short term investments, the recoverability of receivables and inventories, the fair value of assets, and the Companys liquidity. At this point in time, there has not been a material impact on the Companys assets and liquidity. Management will continue to monitor the risks associated with the current environment and their impact on the Companys results. Operating Activities Net cash consumed by operating activities was $3,136,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2010. Cash was consumed by the loss of $3,871,000, less non-cash expenses of $595,000 for stock-based compensation and $107,000 for depreciation and amortization, impairment and other non-cash items. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, decreases in inventories and accounts receivable generated cash of $44,000 and $9,000 respectively. A net decrease of $48,000 in accounts payable and accrued expenses consumed cash from operating activities. Net cash consumed by operating activities was $2,130,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2009. Cash was consumed by the loss of $2,721,000 less non-cash expenses of $388,000 for stock-based compensation and $96,000 for depreciation and amortization. As of March 31, 2009 inventories had increased by $129,000 due to the receipt of raw materials supply order and prepaid expenses and other current assets generated cash of $179,000 due to a reduction of $72,000 in costs that we incurred under the Novartis agreement that are recoverable from them and lower prepaid expense level. Investing Activities Net cash inflows from investing activities generated $394,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2010. Sales of marketable securities totaled approximately $510,000. An $116,000 use of cash was attributable to additional costs incurred from patent filings and equipment additions. Net cash inflows from investing activities generated $3,852,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2009. Marketable securities investments acquired totaled approximately $501,000 and sales of marketable securities totaled approximately $4,484,000. A $132,000 use of cash was primarily attributable to additions to intangible assets from additional costs incurred from patent filings and equipment additions for upgrades and expansion of lab equipment. Financing Activities Net cash inflows from financing activities generated $145,000 during the three month period ended March 31, 2010. The Company received proceeds of $172,000 from the exercise of common stock options and consumed $27,000 for repayments under existing debt agreements. Net cash flow from financing activities consumed $75,000 during the three month period ended March 31, 2009. The Company received proceeds of $30,000 from the exercise of common stock options and consumed $105,000 for repayments under existing debt agreements. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. The most significant accounting estimates inherent in the preparation of our financial statements include estimates associated with revenue recognition, impairment analysis of intangibles and stock-based compensation. The Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows are impacted by the accounting policies the Company has adopted. In order to get a full understanding of the Companys financial statements, one must have a clear understanding of the accounting policies employed. A summary of the Companys critical accounting policies follows: 16 Investments: The Company invests excess cash from time to time in highly liquid debt and equity securities of highly rated entities which are classified as trading securities. Such amounts are recorded at market and are classified as current, as the Company does not intend to hold the investments beyond twelve months. Such excess funds are invested under the Companys investment policy but an unexpected decline or loss could have an adverse and material effect on the carrying value, recoverability or investment returns of such investments. Our Board has approved an investment policy covering the investment parameters to be followed with the primary goals being the safety of principal amounts and maintaining liquidity of the fund. The policy provides for minimum investment rating requirements as well as limitations on investment duration and concentrations. Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The elements of cost in inventories include materials, labor and overhead. The Company does not have supply agreements in place for the antigen business raw material purchases but believes that there are multiple suppliers for our antigen raw material; however historically substantially all of our purchases were made from one supplier. Management believes that its relationship with this supplier is strong; however if necessary this relationship can be replaced. If the relationship was to be replaced there may be a short term disruption to the base antigen business and operations, a period of time in which products would not be available and additional expenses may be incurred. Long-Lived Assets: The Company records property and equipment at cost. Depreciation of the assets is recorded on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Dispositions of property and equipment are recorded in the period of disposition and any resulting gains or losses are charged to income or expense when the disposal occurs. The carrying value of the Companys long-lived assets is reviewed at least annually to determine that such carrying amounts are not in excess of estimated market value. Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment by comparing the carrying value to the present value of its expected cash flows or future value. The required annual testing resulted in no impairment charges being recorded to date. Revenue Recognition: The Companys revenues are recognized when products are shipped or delivered to unaffiliated customers. The Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, provides guidance on the application of generally accepted accounting principles to select revenue recognition issues. The Company has concluded that its revenue recognition policy is appropriate and in accordance with SAB No. 104. Revenue is recognized under development and distribution agreements only after the following criteria are met: (i) there exists adequate evidence of the transactions; (ii) delivery of goods has occurred or services have been rendered; and (iii) the price is not contingent on future activity and collectability is reasonably assured. Stock-based Compensation : ASC 718 (formerly - SFAS No. 123(R)), Share-Based Payment, defines the fair-value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans and transactions used by the Company to account for its issuances of equity instruments to record compensation cost for stock-based employee compensation plans at fair value as well as to acquire goods or services from non-employees. Transactions in which the Company issues stock-based compensation to employees, directors and advisors and for goods or services received from non-employees are accounted for based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued. The Company utilizes pricing models in determining the fair values of options and warrants issued as stock-based compensation. These pricing models utilize the market price of the Companys common stock and the exercise price of the option or warrant, as well as time value and volatility factors underlying the positions. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND STATEMENTS Certain statements in Managements Discussion and Analysis and other portions of this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby. These statements relate to future events or the Companys future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the Company or its industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, would, should, expect, plan, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, predict, potential or other comparable terminology. Please see the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in the Companys Form 10-K, as amended for the year ended December 31, 2009, as amended, for a discussion of certain important factors that relate to forward-looking statements contained in this report. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 17