Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed on February 16, 2023, with the SEC. Overview Our two reportable segments are the platform segment and the devices segment. Platform revenue is generated from the sale of digital advertising (including media and entertainment promotional spending, the demand-side platform, and related services) and content distribution services (including subscription and transaction revenue shares, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded channel buttons on remote controls). Devices revenue is generated from the sale of streaming players, Roku-branded TVs (beginning in 2023), smart home products, audio products, and related accessories as well as revenue from licensing arrangements with service operators and licensed Roku TV partners. We expect to continue to manage the average selling prices (ASP) of Roku streaming devices to increase our active accounts. We expect that the trade off from devices gross profit or loss to grow active accounts will result in increased platform revenue and platform gross profit. Business Conditions and Macroeconomic Factors Macroeconomic factors, such as increased inflation and interest rates, recessionary fears, recent bank failures, financial and credit market fluctuations, changes in economic policy, the COVID-19 pandemic, global supply chain constraints, and geopolitical developments (such as the war in Ukraine), have had, and we believe will continue to have, an impact on our business and results of operations. For example, in 2022, some of our licensed Roku TV partners faced inventory challenges that negatively impacted their unit sales. In addition, some of our advertising verticals experienced supply chain disruptions that negatively impacted their product availability, which, together with inflation and other macroeconomic factors, have resulted in advertisers in a variety of industries reducing their overall advertising spend, which has adversely affected our platform revenue. We believe rising inflation and recessionary fears also have led to a reduction in consumer discretionary spending, which has negatively impacted the demand for our products and services. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect our business, although to a lesser extent than in the past. The ongoing effects of macroeconomic conditions remain difficult to predict due to numerous uncertainties. We believe that the direct and indirect impacts of these business conditions and macroeconomic factors are difficult to isolate or quantify. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, and the Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional details. Key Performance Metrics The key performance metrics we use to evaluate our business, measure our performance, develop financial forecasts and make strategic decisions are gross profit, active accounts, streaming hours, and average revenue per user (ARPU). Gross Profit We use gross profit as the primary metric to measure the performance of our business because we have two revenue segments that have different margin profiles, and we aim to maximize our higher margin platform revenue from our active accounts as they stream content on our platform. Substantially all of our gross profit is generated from our platform segment. Our gross profit was $337.6 million and $364.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, reflecting a decrease of 7%. Active Accounts We believe that the number of active accounts is a relevant measure to gauge the size of our user base. We define active accounts as the number of distinct user accounts that have streamed content on our platform within the last 30 days of the period. Users who streamed content from The Roku Channel only on non-Roku platforms are not included in this metric. Additionally, users who only register an account for use of our smart home products are not included in our reported number of active accounts. The number of active accounts also does not correspond to the number of unique individuals who actively utilize our platform, or the number of devices associated with an account. For example, a single account may be used by more than one individual, such as a family, and one account may be used on multiple streaming devices. 22 Table of Contents We had 71.6 million and 61.3 million active accounts as of March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, reflecting an increase of 17%. Streaming Hours We believe the number of streaming hours on our platform is an effective measure of user engagement and that the growth in the number of hours of content streamed across our platform reflects our success in addressing the growing user demand for TV streaming. We define streaming hours as the aggregate amount of time streaming devices stream content on our platform in a given period. Hours streamed from The Roku Channel on non-Roku platforms are not included in this metric. Additionally, smart home products do not contribute to our streaming hours. We report streaming hours on a calendar basis. Additionally, we believe that over time, increasing user engagement on our streaming platform increases our platform monetization because we earn platform revenue from various forms of user engagement, including advertising, as well as revenue shares from subscriptions and transactional video on-demand. However, our revenue from content publishers is not tied to the hours streamed on their streaming channels, and the number of streaming hours does not correlate to revenue earned from such content publishers or ARPU on a period-by-period basis. Moreover, streaming hours on our platform are measured whenever a streaming device is streaming content, whether a viewer is actively watching or not. For example, if a Roku player is connected to a TV, and the viewer turns off the TV, steps away, or falls asleep and does not stop or pause the player, then the particular streaming channel may continue to play content for a period of time determined by the streaming channel. We believe that this also occurs across a wide variety of non-Roku streaming devices and other set-top boxes. Since the first quarter of 2020, all of our Roku streaming devices include a Roku OS feature that is designed to identify when content has been continuously streaming on a channel for an extended period of time without user interaction. This feature, which we refer to as Are you still watching, periodically prompts the user to confirm that they are still watching the selected channel and closes the channel if the user does not respond affirmatively. We believe that the implementation of this feature across the Roku platform benefits us, our customers, channel partners, and advertisers. Some of our leading channel partners, including Netflix, also have implemented similar features within their channels. This Roku OS feature supplements these channel features. This feature has not had and is not expected to have a material impact on our future financial performance. We streamed 25.1 billion and 20.9 billion hours during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, reflecting an increase of 20%. Average Revenue per User We measure our platform monetization progress with ARPU, which we believe represents the inherent value of our business. We define ARPU as our platform revenue for the trailing four quarters divided by the average of the number of active accounts at the end of the current period and the end of the corresponding period in the prior year. ARPU measures the rate at which we are monetizing our active account base and the progress of our platform business. ARPU was $40.67 as of March 31, 2023 as compared to $42.60 as of March 31, 2022, reflecting a decrease of 5%. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Platform Revenue We generate platform revenue from sale of digital advertising (including media and entertainment promotional spending, the demand-side platform, and related services) and content distribution services (including subscription and transaction revenue shares, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded channel buttons on remote controls). Our ad inventory includes video ad inventory from AVOD content in The Roku Channel, native display ads on our home screen and screen saver, as well as ad inventory we obtain through our content distribution agreements with publishers. To supplement supply, we re-sell video ad inventory that we purchase from content publishers and, to a lesser extent, directly sell third-party ad inventory on a revenue share basis. To date, we have generated most of our platform revenue in the United States. 23 Table of Contents Devices Revenue We generate devices revenue from the sale of streaming players, Roku-branded TVs, smart home products, audio products, and related accessories through consumer retail distribution channels and online retailers. Our devices revenue also includes revenue from licensing arrangements with service operators and licensed Roku TV partners. We generate most of our devices revenue in the United States. In our international markets, we primarily sell our devices through wholesale distributors which, in turn, re-sell to retailers. Cost of Revenue Cost of Revenue, Platform Cost of revenue, platform primarily consists of costs associated with acquiring advertising inventory and amortization costs of content, both licensed and produced, and revenue share with content publishers. Cost of revenue, platform also includes other costs such as payment processing fees, allocated expenses associated with the delivery of our services that primarily include costs of third-party cloud services and salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our customer support and platform operations personnel, and amortization of acquired developed technology. Cost of Revenue, Devices Cost of revenue, devices is comprised mostly of manufacturing costs payable to third party manufacturers for devices we sell which include streaming players, audio products, Roku-branded TVs and smart home products. Cost of revenue, devices also includes technology licenses or royalty fees on devices we sell or license, inbound and outbound freight, duty and logistics costs, third-party packaging, inventory provisions, and allocated overhead costs related to facilities, customer support, and salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for operations personnel. Operating and Other Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our development teams as well as outsourced development fees. In addition, research and development expenses include allocated facilities and overhead costs. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the development of our platform and devices products and services. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, commissions, and stock-based compensation for our employees engaged in sales and sales support, marketing, communications, data science and analytics, business development, product management, and partner support functions. Sales and marketing expenses also include marketing, retail and merchandising costs, and allocated facilities and overhead expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we focus on growing active accounts, platform and devices revenue, and expanding our business internationally. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our finance, legal, information technology, human resources, and other administrative personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal, accounting, and other professional service fees as well as allocated facility and overhead expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars due to the expansion of our business and related infrastructure. Other Income (Expense), Net For the three months ended March 31, 2023, and 2022, other income (expense), net consists of interest income on cash and cash equivalents, income recognized related to non-cash consideration associated with the delivery of services as part of a strategic commercial arrangement, foreign currency re-measurement, and transaction gains and losses, and interest expense that includes interest on our debt and amortization of deferred debt costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, other income (expense), net also includes the change in the fair value of the Strategic Investment. Income Tax Expense Our income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business and income taxes in the United States. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating losses primarily for the U.S. and any jurisdiction where we do not expect to realize their benefits in the future. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Net Revenue: Platform 86 % 88 % Devices 14 % 12 % Total net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of Revenue: Platform 40 % 36 % Devices 14 % 14 % Total cost of revenue 54 % 50 % Gross Profit (Loss): Platform 46 % 52 % Devices % (2) % Total gross profit 46 % 50 % Operating Expenses: Research and development 30 % 22 % Sales and marketing 32 % 20 % General and administrative 13 % 11 % Total operating expenses 75 % 53 % Loss from Operations (29) % (3) % Other Income (Expense), Net: Interest expense % % Other income (expense), net 3 % % Total other income (expense), net 3 % % Loss Before Income Taxes (26) % (3) % Income tax expense % % Net Loss (26) % (3) % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 Net Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Platform $ 634,618 $ 643,707 $ (9,089) (1) % Devices 106,372 89,992 16,380 18 % Total net revenue $ 740,990 $ 733,699 $ 7,291 1 % Platform Platform revenue decreased by $9.1 million, or 1%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The change was due to lower revenue from advertising as a result of increased pressure from the macroeconomic factors that strained spending in certain advertisement categories, including media and 25 Table of Contents promotional spending, offset by revenue from content distribution services, such as content subscriptions and Premium Subscriptions through The Roku Channel. Devices Devices revenue increased by $16.4 million, or 18%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. $10.0 million of the increase is due to a change in estimated transaction price for a licensing arrangement with a service operator for which performance obligations were satisfied in prior periods. The remaining increase is due to higher revenue from Roku-branded TVs, smart home products and accessories offset by lower revenue from sales of streaming players and audio products. The volume of streaming players sold decreased by 15% and the average selling price of players decreased by 1% in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of Revenue: Platform $ 300,587 $ 265,788 $ 34,799 13 % Devices 102,806 103,104 (298) % Total cost of revenue $ 403,393 $ 368,892 $ 34,501 9 % Gross Profit (Loss): Platform $ 334,031 $ 377,919 $ (43,888) (12) % Devices 3,566 (13,112) 16,678 (127) % Total gross profit $ 337,597 $ 364,807 $ (27,210) (7) % Platform The cost of revenue, platform increased by $34.8 million, or 13%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase is from continued investment in acquiring content which includes costs such as content amortization, Premium Subscription costs, content publisher revenue share and credit card processing fees, and a minor increase in cost of acquiring advertising inventory all totaling to $32.8 million. Gross profit for the platform segment decreased by $43.9 million, or 12%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to three months ended March 31, 2022 mainly due to a lower platform revenue that has faced pressures in the advertising market from overall macroeconomic conditions. Devices The cost of revenue, devices remained relatively flat during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. As the pressures on component costs and supply chain eased in the last quarter of fiscal 2022, active management of the manufacturing costs, freight and management of inventory levels while introducing new products, resulted in the overall costs of revenue remaining at almost the same level. Gross profit for the devices segment increased by $16.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to the change in estimated transaction price from a licensing arrangement with a service operator noted above, along with improved revenue from introduction of new products combined with relatively flat cost of revenue from easing of pressures related to component costs and supply chain, and active management of the cost components. 26 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 220,085 $ 163,998 $ 56,087 34 % Sales and marketing 233,919 146,522 87,397 60 % General and administrative 96,053 77,777 18,276 23 % Total operating expenses $ 550,057 $ 388,297 $ 161,760 42 % Research and development Research and development expenses increased by $56.1 million, or 34%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase is due to higher personnel-related expenses of $34.1 million as a result of higher engineering headcount and related stock-based compensation as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, higher restructuring charges of $13.8 million, higher consulting, professional services, and cloud services expenses of $3.6 million, and higher expenses related to expanded office facilities and IT infrastructure of $3.7 million. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $87.4 million, or 60%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase is due to higher marketing, retail and merchandising expenses of $48.0 million, higher personnel-related costs of $25.8 million as a result of higher headcount and related stock-based compensation in sales and sales support, product management, marketing, and business analytics as compared to three months ended March 31, 2022, higher restructuring charges of $6.7 million, and higher expenses related to expanded office facilities and IT infrastructure of $5.8 million. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $18.3 million, or 23%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase is due to higher restructuring charges of $10.7 million that include employee terminations, assets impairment charges and facilities exit costs, higher personnel-related expenses of $9.9 million, higher general and administrative expenses such as travel, bad debt expenses of $1.7 million, offset by a reduction of $5.0 million in legal, consulting and professional services expenses. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (681) $ (1,057) $ 376 (36) % Other income (expense), net 23,101 409 22,692 nm Total other income (expense), net $ 22,420 $ (648) $ 23,068 nm Total other income (expense), net, increased $23.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest income of $19.8 million from higher interest rates on our cash balances during the period and an unrealized gain of $3.2 million from the change in fair value of the Strategic Investment. The changes in interest expense and foreign exchange were not significant during the period. 27 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 3,564 $ 2,168 $ 1,396 64 % Income tax expense increased by $1.4 million, or 64% during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 and was primarily driven by increased income in foreign jurisdictions. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) was enacted in the United States. The IRA introduces a 15% alternative minimum tax based on the financial statement income of certain large corporations, effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022. The IRA also includes a 1% excise tax on the net fair market value of stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. We considered the applicable tax law changes, and there is no impact to our tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2023. We will continue to evaluate the impact of these tax law changes on future periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,630.1 million. Less than 2% of our cash was held outside the United States in accounts held by our foreign subsidiaries, which are used to fund foreign operations. In February 2023, we fully repaid the outstanding balance and satisfied all debt obligations under the Credit Facility (see Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for additional information). On March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, which appointed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) as receiver. We had approximately $487.0 million in accounts at SVB on that date. On March 13, 2023, the FDIC announced that it had transferred all insured and uninsured deposits and substantially all assets of SVB to a newly created, full-service FDIC-operated bridge bank called Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A., where depositors would have full access to their money immediately. We currently have full control of our cash and cash equivalents balance. Our primary sources of cash are receipts from platform and devices revenue and proceeds from equity sales, including equity issued pursuant to our employee equity incentive plans. The primary uses of cash are costs of revenue including costs to acquire advertising inventory, costs to license and produce content, third-party manufacturing costs for our products, as well as operating expenses including payroll-related expenses, consulting and professional service fees, and facility and marketing expenses. Other uses of cash include purchases of property and equipment and mergers and acquisitions. We expect to continue to incur expenses for facility and building related costs for our office locations in the United States and internationally. In addition, we expect to continue our investments in purchases of computer systems and other property and equipment. We have pursued merger and acquisition activities in the past, and we may pursue additional merger and acquisition activities in the future, including the acquisition of rights to programming and content assets. These activities can materially impact our liquidity and capital resources. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents balance will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures, and material cash requirements from known contractual obligations for the next twelve months and beyond. Our future capital requirements, the adequacy of available funds, and cash flows from operations could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those detailed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report and the effects of the current macroeconomic environment. While the current macroeconomic environment has not severely impacted our liquidity and capital resources to date, it has contributed to disruption and volatility in local economies and in capital and credit markets, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources in the future. We may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or other financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional financing by the incurrence of indebtedness, we may be subject to fixed payment obligations and also to restrictive covenants. Additionally, due to the current macroeconomic environment, we may be unable to obtain debt financing on terms that are acceptable to us. 28 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities $ (153,412) $ 101,798 Cash flows used in investing activities $ (59,243) $ (14,764) Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities $ (79,109) $ 2,102 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our operating activities used cash of $153.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our net loss of $193.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was adjusted by non-cash charges of $181.2 million comprised mainly of stock-based compensation, amortization of content assets, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and intangible assets, amortization of operating right-of-use assets, impairment of assets as part of restructuring charges, and change in fair value of Strategic Investment. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities used cash of $141.0 million mainly from payments made for accrued liabilities related payable to content partners, marketing, retail and merchandising costs, payroll and related expenses, payments to accounts payable and cost of acquiring content, offset by higher collections of accounts receivable and an increase in deferred revenue. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included cash outflows of $59.2 million consisting of purchases of property and equipment and expenditures related to expansion of our office facilities of $54.2 million and the purchase of a Strategic Investment of $5.0 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our financing activities used cash of $79.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The cash outflow related primarily to the repayment of $80.0 million of our Credit Facility that became due in February 2023 offset by $0.9 million received from proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Material Cash Requirements from Known Contractual Obligations Our material cash requirements from known contractual obligations as of March 31, 2023 consisted of: Commitments to purchase finished goods from our contract manufacturers and other inventory related items. Consistent with industry practices, we enter into firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with our contract manufacturers to acquire products through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Our contract manufacturers source components and build our products based on these demand forecasts. Changes to projected demand or in the subsequent sales mix of our products may result in us being committed to purchase excess inventory to satisfy these commitments. For additional information regarding manufacturing purchase commitments, see Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Commitments to license content from content publishers and produce content under contractual arrangements. For additional information regarding content commitments, see Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Operating lease liabilities that are included in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and liabilities related to the lease arrangements that have not yet commenced. For additional information regarding our lease liabilities, see Note 9 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. The contractual commitments discussed above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included above. 29 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience, current trends and other factors that we believe to be reasonable at the time our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report.