Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred operating losses in the past, expect to incur operating losses in the future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We began operations in 2002 and we have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since inception. As of December 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $253.9 million and for the year ended December 31, 2018, we experienced a net loss of $8.9 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our revenue and gross profit do not grow at a greater rate than our operating expenses, we will not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We expect to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation the other risks and uncertainties described herein. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating or legal expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our expenses exceed our revenue, we may never achieve or maintain profitability and our business may be harmed. TV streaming is highly competitive and many companies, including large technology companies, content owners and aggregators, TV brands and service operators, are actively focusing on this industry. If we fail to differentiate ourselves and compete successfully with these companies, it will be difficult for us to attract and retain users and our business will be harmed. TV streaming is increasingly competitive and global. Our success depends in part on attracting and retaining users on, and effective monetization of, our TV streaming platform. To attract and retain users, we need to be able to respond efficiently to changes in consumer tastes and preferences and continue to increase the type and number of content offerings. Effective monetization requires us to continue to update the features and functionality of our streaming platform for users, content publishers and advertisers. We must also effectively support the most popular sources of streaming content, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu and YouTube and respond rapidly to actual and anticipated market trends in the U.S. TV streaming industry. Companies such as Amazon, Apple and Google offer TV streaming devices that compete with our streaming players and Roku TV. In addition, Google licenses its operating system software for integration into smart TVs and service provider set top boxes and Amazon licenses its operating system software for integration into smart TVs. These companies have the financial resources to subsidize the cost of their streaming devices in order to promote 11 their other products and services making it harder for us to acquire new users and increase hours streamed. These companies could also implement standards or technology that are not compatible with our products or that provide a better streaming experience on competitive products. These companies also promote their brands through traditional forms of advertising, such as TV commercials, as well as internet advertising or website product placement, and have greater resources than us to devote to such efforts. In addition, many TV brands, such as LG, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and VIZIO, Inc., offer their own TV streaming solutions within their TVs. Other devices, such as Microsofts Xbox and Sonys PlayStation game consoles and many DVD and Blu-ray players, also incorporate TV streaming functionality. Similarly, some service operators, such as Comcast and Altice, offer TV streaming applications as part of their cable service plans and can leverage their existing consumer bases, installation networks, broadband delivery networks and name recognition to gain traction in the TV streaming market. If consumers of TV streaming content prefer these alternative products to Roku streaming players and Roku TVs, we may not able to achieve our expected growth in player revenue or gross profit. In July 2018, we launched our new Roku TV Wireless Speaker product line, designed specifically for use with Roku TVs. As a result, we may face additional competition from makers of TV audio speakers and soundbars, as well as makers of other TV peripheral devices. While our wireless speaker products have not generated significant revenue, if our wireless speaker products do not operate as designed, do not achieve marketplace acceptance, or do not enhance or produce the benefits to the Roku TV viewing experience as we intend, our users overall viewing experience may be diminished, and this may impact the overall demand for Roku TVs or other Roku products. We expect competition in TV streaming from the large technology companies and service operators described above, as well as new and growing companies, to increase in the future. This increased competition could result in pricing pressure, lower revenue and gross profit or the failure of our players, Roku TV and our platform to gain or maintain broad market acceptance. To remain competitive and maintain our position as a leading TV streaming provider we need to continuously invest in product development, marketing, service and support and device distribution infrastructure. In addition, evolving TV standards such as 4K, 8K, HDR and unknown future developments may require further investments in the development of our players, Roku TV and our platform. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investments needed to maintain our competitive position. In addition, most of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than us, which provide them with advantages in developing, marketing or servicing new products and offerings. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to market demand, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products or the distribution of their content, and influence market acceptance of their products better than we can. These competitors may also be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and may be able to deliver products and services at a lower cost. Increased competition could reduce our market share, revenue and operating margins, increase our operating costs, harm our competitive position and otherwise harm our business. We also compete for video viewing hours with mobile platforms (phones and tablets), and users may prefer to view streaming content on such devices. Increased use of mobile platforms for video streaming could adversely impact the growth of our streaming hours, harm our competitive position and otherwise harm our business. We may not be successful in our efforts to further monetize our streaming platform, which may harm our business. Our business model depends on our ability to generate platform revenue from advertisers and content publishers. We generate platform revenue primarily from the video advertising and audience development campaigns that run across our platform and from our content partners on a transactional basis when new subscriptions are purchased and content transactions occur on our platform. As such, we are seeking to expand our user base and increase the number of hours that are streamed across our platform in an effort to create additional platform revenue opportunities. The total number of hours streamed, however, does not correlate with platform revenue on a period-by-period basis, because we do not monetize every hour streamed on our platform. As our user base grows and as we increase the amount of content offered and streamed across our platform, we must effectively monetize our expanding user base and streaming activity. Moreover, streaming hours on our platform are measured 12 whenever a Roku player or a Roku TV is streaming content, whether a viewer is actively watching or not. For example, if a Roku player is connected to a TV, and the viewer turns off the TV, steps away or falls asleep and does not stop or pause the player then the particular streaming channel may auto-play subsequent content for a period of time determined by the streaming channel. We believe that this also occurs across a wide variet y of non-Roku streaming devices and other set-top boxes. Our ability to deliver more relevant advertisements to our users and to increase our platforms value to advertisers and content publishers depends on the collection of user engagement data, which may be restricted or prevented by a number of factors. Users may decide to opt out or restrict our ability to collect personal viewing data or to provide them with more relevant advertisements. Content publishers may also refuse to allow us to collect data regarding user engagement or refuse to implement mechanisms we request to ensure compliance with our legal obligations or technical requirements. For example, we are not able to fully utilize program level viewing data from many of our most popular channels to improve the relevancy of advertisements provided to our users. Other channels available on our platform, such as Amazon Prime Video, Hulu and YouTube, are focused on increasing user engagement and time spent within their channel by allowing them to purchase additional content and streaming services within their channels. In addition, we do not currently monetize content provided on non-certified channels on our platform. If our users spend most of their time within particular channels where we have limited or no ability to place advertisements or leverage user information, or users opt out from our ability to collect data for use in providing more relevant advertisements, then we may not be able to achieve our expected growth in platform revenue or gross profit. If we are unable to further monetize our platform, our business may be harmed. To date, the majority of the hours streamed on our platform have consisted of subscription video on demand content; however, in order to materially increase the mon etization of our platform through the sale of video advertising, we will need our users to stream significantly more ad-supported content. Our efforts to monetize our platform through ad-supported content is still developing and may not grow as we expect. Further, while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in our advertising revenue as we have expanded our user base and streaming hours, our efforts to monetize our platform through the sale of advertising video on demand content are still developing and our revenue from advertising video on demand offerings may not grow as we expect. This means of monetization will require us to continue to attract advertising dollars to our platform as well as deliver advertising video on demand content that appeals to users. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in monetizing our platform through the sale of advertising-supported video. We depend on a small number of content publishers for a majority of our streaming hours, and if we fail to maintain these relationships, our business could be harmed, even though the revenues received, directly or indirectly, from streaming on certain of these channels has not been significant to our overall revenue. Historically, a small number of content publishers have accounted for a significant portion of the content streamed across our platform and the terms and conditions of our relationships with content publishers vary. In the year ended December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, Netflix and YouTube accounted for a majority of all hours streamed in each period. However, although YouTubes free ad-supported channel is the most viewed ad-supported channel and the second most viewed channel overall by hours streamed on our platform for the year ended December 31, 2018 we do not receive material revenue from it. In addition, our agreements with content publishers generally have a term of one to three years and can be terminated before the end of the term by the content publisher under certain circumstances, such as if we materially breach the agreement, become insolvent, enter bankruptcy, commit fraud or fail to adhere to the content publishers security requirements. If we fail to maintain our relationships with the content publishers on terms favorable to us, or at all, or if these content publishers face problems in delivering their content across our platform, we may lose channel partners or users and our business may be harmed. 13 We operate in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. If TV streaming develops more slowly than we expect, our operating results and growth prospects could be harmed. In additio n, our future growth depends on the growth of TV streaming advertising. TV streaming is a relatively new and rapidly evolving industry, making our business and prospects difficult to evaluate. The growth and profitability of this industry and the level of demand and market acceptance for our products and streaming platform are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. We believe that the continued growth of streaming as an entertainment alternative will depend on the availability and growth of cost-effective broadband internet access, the quality of broadband content delivery, the quality and reliability of new devices and technology, the cost for users relative to other sources of content, as well as the quality and breadth of content that is delivered across streaming platforms. These technologies, products and content offerings continue to emerge and evolve. Users, content publishers or advertisers may find TV streaming platforms to be less attractive than traditional TV, which would harm our business. In addition, many advertisers continue to devote a substantial portion of their advertising budgets to traditional advertising, such as TV, radio and print. The future growth of our business depends on the growth of TV streaming advertising, and on advertisers increasing spend on such advertising. We cannot be certain that they will do so. If advertisers do not perceive meaningful benefits of TV streaming advertising, then this market may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely impact our operating results and our ability to grow our business. If we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of quality video ad inventory on our platform, our business may be harmed. We may fail to attract content publishers that generate sufficient quantity or quality of ad-supported content hours on our platform and continue to grow supply of quality video ad inventory. Our business model depends on our ability to grow video ad inventory on our platform and sell it to advertisers. We grow video ad inventory by adding and retaining content publishers on our platform with ad-supported channels that we can monetize. In addition, our access video ad inventory in ad-supported streaming channels on our platform varies greatly among channels, accordingly, we do not have access to all of the video ad inventory on our platform. For certain channels, including YouTubes ad supported channel, we have no access to video ad inventory at this time, and we may not secure access in the future. The amount, quality and cost of video ad inventory available to us can change at any time. If we are unable to grow and maintain a sufficient supply of quality video advertising inventory at reasonable costs to keep up with demand, our business may be harmed. We operate in a highly competitive industry and we compete for advertising revenue with other internet streaming platforms and services, as well as traditional media, such as radio, broadcast, cable and satellite TV and satellite and internet radio. These competitors offer content and other advertising mediums that may be more attractive to advertisers than our TV streaming platform. These competitors are often very large and have more advertising experience and financial resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete for advertisers and may result in lower revenue and gross profit from advertising. If we are unable to increase our advertising revenue by, among other things, continuing to improve our platforms data capabilities to further optimize and measure advertisers campaigns, increase our advertising inventory and expand our advertising sales team and programmatic capabilities, our business and our growth prospects may be harmed. We may not be able to compete effectively or adapt to any such changes or trends, which would harm our ability to grow our advertising revenue and harm our business. Our players and Roku TVs must operate with various offerings, technologies and systems from our content publishers that we do not control. If Roku devices do not operate effectively with those offerings, technologies and systems, our business may be harmed. Our Roku OS is designed for performance using relatively low-cost hardware, which enables us to drive user growth with our players and Roku TVs offered at a low cost to consumers. However, our hardware must be interoperable with all channels and other offerings, technologies and systems from our content publishers, including virtual multi-channel video programming distributors such as Sling TV. We have no control over these offerings, technologies and systems beyond our channel certification requirements, and if our players do not provide our users with a high-quality experience on those offerings on a cost-effective basis or if changes are made to those offerings 14 that are not compatible with our players, we may be unable to increase user growth and content hours streamed, we may be required to increase our hardware costs and our business will be harmed. We plan to continue to introduce new product s regularly and we have experienced that it takes time to optimize such products to function well with these offerings, technologies and systems. In addition, many of our largest content publishers have the right to test and certify our new products before we can publish their channels on new products. These certification processes can be time consuming and introduce third party dependencies into our product release cycles. If content publishers do not certify new products on a timely basis or require us to make changes in order to obtain certifications, our product release plans may be adversely impacted. To continue to grow our active accounts and user engagement, we will need to prioritize development of our products to work better with new offerings, tec hnologies and systems. If we are unable to maintain consistent operability of Roku devices that is on parity with or better than other platforms, our business could be harmed. In addition, any future changes to offerings, technologies and systems from our content publishers such as virtual service operators may impact the accessibility, speed, functionality, and other performance aspects of our products, which issues are likely to occur in the future from time to time. We may not successfully develop produc ts that operate effectively with these offerings, technologies or systems. If it becomes more difficult for our users to access and use these offerings, technologies or systems, our business could be harmed. Changes in consumer viewing habits could harm our business. The manner in which consumers access streaming content is changing rapidly. As the technological infrastructure for internet access continues to improve and evolve, consumers will be presented with more opportunities to access video, music and games on-demand with interactive capabilities. Time spent on mobile devices is growing rapidly, in particular by young adults streaming video content, including popular streaming channels like Netflix and YouTube, as well as content from cable or satellite providers available live or on-demand on mobile devices. In addition, personal computers, smart TVs, DVD players, Blu-ray players, gaming consoles and cable set top boxes allow users to access streaming entertainment content. If other streaming or technology providers are able to respond and take advantage of changes in consumer viewing habits and technologies better than us, our business could be harmed. New entrants may enter the TV streaming market with unique service offerings or approaches to providing video. In addition, our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. If new technologies render the TV streaming market obsolete or we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors and technologies, our business will be harmed, and we may not be able to increase or maintain our market share and revenue. If we fail to obtain or maintain popular content, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users. We have invested a significant amount of time to cultivate relationships with our content publishers; however, such relationships may not continue to grow or yield further financial results. We must continuously maintain existing relationships and identify and establish new relationships with content publishers to provide popular content. In order to remain competitive, we must consistently meet user demand for popular streaming channels and content; particularly as we launch new players or enter new markets, including international markets. If we are not successful in helping our content publishers launch and maintain streaming channels that attract and retain a significant number of users on our platform or if we are not able to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business will be harmed. Our ability to successfully help content publishers maintain and expand their channel offerings on a cost-effective basis largely depends on our ability to: effectively market new streaming channels and enhancements to our existing streaming channels; minimize launch delays of new and updated streaming channels; and minimize platform downtime and other technical difficulties. If we fail to help our content publishers maintain and expand their channel offerings our business may be harmed. 15 If the advertising and audience development campaigns on our platform are not relevant or not engaging to our users, our growth in active accounts and hours streamed may be adversely impacted. We have made, and are continuing to make, investments to enable advertisers and content providers to deliver relevant advertisements and audience development campaigns to users on our platform. Existing and prospective advertisers and content providers may not be successful in serving ads and audience development campaigns that lead to and maintain user engagement. Those ads and campaigns may seem irrelevant, repetitive or overly targeted and intrusive. We are continuously seeking to balance the objectives of our users and advertisers with our desire to provide an optimal user experience, but we may not be successful in achieving a balance that continues to attract and retain users and advertisers. If we do not introduce relevant advertisements and audience development campaigns or such advertisements and audience development campaigns are overly intrusive and impede the use of our TV streaming platform, our users may stop using our platform which will harm our business. The Roku Channel may not continue to attract a large number of users and/or generate significant advertising revenues, and our users may not purchase Premium Subscriptions. We operate The Roku Channel, which offers both ad-supported free access for users to a collection of films, television series and other content as well as Premium Subscriptions, which we launched in January 2019, allowing our users to pay for ad-free content from various content providers, all on one streaming channel. Although the Roku Channel was a top five channel on our platform based on the number of active accounts that accessed the channel at least once in the quarter ended December 31, 2018 other than through our Premium Subscriptions feature, we do not receive subscriptions or other fees from users that access content on The Roku Channel. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs and expenses in connection with the launch, development, expansion and operation of The Roku Channel, which we monetize through advertising and selling Premium Subscriptions. If our users do not continue to stream the free, ad-supported content we make available on The Roku Channel or purchase Premium Subscriptions, we will not have the opportunity to monetize The Roku Channel through revenue generated from advertising as well as Premium Subscriptions. In order to attract users to the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel and drive streaming of ad-supported video on The Roku Channel, we must secure rights to stream content that is appealing to our users and advertisers. In part, we do this by directly licensing certain content from content owners, such as television and movie studios. The agreements that we enter into with these content owners have varying terms and provide us with rights to make specific content available through The Roku Channel during certain periods of time. Upon expiration of these agreements, we are required to re-negotiate and renew these agreements with the content owners, or enter into new agreements with other content owners, in order to obtain rights to distribute additional titles or to extend the duration of the rights previously granted. If for any period of time, we are unable to enter into content license agreements on acceptable terms to access content that enables us to attract and retain users of the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel, usage of The Roku Channel may decline, and our business may be harmed. Furthermore, if the advertisements on The Roku Channel are not relevant to our users or such advertisements are overly intrusive and impede our users enjoyment of the content we make available, our users may not stream content and view advertisements on The Roku Channel, and The Roku Channel may not generate sufficient advertising revenues to be cost effective for us to operate, regardless of our ability to sell Premium Subscriptions. In addition, we recently began distributing The Roku Channel on platforms other than our own streaming platform, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting a large number of users and/or generating significant advertising revenues through the distribution of The Roku Channel on such other streaming platforms. Our growth will depend in part upon our ability to develop relationships with TV brands and, to a lesser extent, service operators. We developed, and intend to continue to develop, relationships with TV brands and service operators in both the United States and international markets. Our licensing arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and complete. Our current and potential partners include TV brands, cable and satellite companies and telecommunication providers. Under these license arrangements, we generally have limited control over the amount and timing of resources these entities dedicate to the relationship. If our TV brand or service operator partners fail to meet their forecasts for distributing licensed devices, our business may be harmed. 16 We license our Roku OS to certain TV brands to manufacture co-brand ed smart TVs, or Roku TVs. The primary economic benefits that we derive from these license arrangements have been and will likely continue to be indirect, primarily from growing our active accounts and increasing hours streamed. We have not received, nor d o we expect to receive significant license revenue from these arrangements in the near term, but we expect to incur expenses in connection with these commercial agreements. If these arrangements do not result in increased users and hours streamed, our busi ness may be harmed. The loss of a relationship with a TV brand or service operator could harm our results of operations, damage our reputation, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels or increase our marketi ng costs. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships with any of these third parties, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our development of these relationships, our ability to gr ow our business could be adversely impacted. If our users sign up for offerings and services outside of our platform or though other channels on our platform, our business may be harmed. We earn revenue by acquiring subscribers for certain of our content publishers activated on or through our platform. If users do not use our platform for these purchases or subscriptions for any reason, and instead pay for services directly with content publishers or by other means that we do not receive attribution for, our business may be harmed. In addition, certain channels available on our platform allow users to purchase additional streaming services from within their channels. The revenues we earn from these transactions are generally not equivalent to the revenues we earn from activations on or through our platform that we receive full attribution credit for. Accordingly, if users activate their subscriptions for content or services through other channels on our platform, our business may be harmed. If we were to lose the services of our Chief Executive Officer or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Anthony Wood, is critical to our overall management, as well as the continued development of our devices and the Roku platform, our culture and our strategic direction. All of our executive officers are at will employees, and we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of any member of our senior management team could harm our business. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified employees, we may not be able to continue to grow our business. Our ability to compete and grow depends in large part on the efforts and talents of our employees. Our employees, particularly engineers and other product developers, are in high demand, and we devote significant resources to identifying, hiring, training, successfully integrating and retaining these employees. As competition with other companies increases, we may incur significant expenses in attracting and retaining high quality engineers and other employees. The loss of employees or the inability to hire additional skilled employees as necessary to support the rapid growth of our business and the scale of our operations could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time-consuming and expensive and cause additional disruptions to our business. We believe a critical component to our success and our ability to retain our best people is our culture. As we continue to grow and develop a public company infrastructure, we may find it difficult to maintain our entrepreneurial, execution-focused culture. In addition, many of our employees, may be able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. Moreover, the equity ownership of many of our employees could create disparities in wealth among our employees, which may harm our culture and relations among employees and our business. 17 Most of our agreements with content publishers are not long term. Any disruption in the renewal of such agreements may result in the removal of certain content from our platform and may harm our active account growth and engagement. We enter into agreements with all our content publishers, which have varying expiration dates; typically over one to three years. Upon expiration of these agreements, we are required to re-negotiate and renew these agreements in order to continue providing offerings from these content publishers on our platform. We may not be able to reach a satisfactory agreement before our existing agreements have expired. If we are unable to renew such agreements on a timely basis, we may be required to temporarily or permanently remove certain content from our platform. The loss of such content from our platform for any period of time may harm our business. If our content publishers do not continue to develop channels for our platform and participate in new features that we may introduce from time to time, our business may be harmed. As our platform and products evolve, we will continue to introduce new features, which may or may not be attractive to our content publishers or meet their requirements. For example, some content publishers have elected not to participate in our cross-channel search feature, our integrated advertising framework, known as RAF, or have imposed limits on our data gathering for usage within their channels. In addition, our platform utilizes our proprietary Brightscript scripting language in order to allow our content publishers to develop and create channels on our platform. If we introduce new features or utilize a new scripting language in the future, such a change may not comply with our content publishers' certification requirements. In addition, our content publishers may find other languages, such as HTML5, more attractive to develop for and shift their resources to developing their channels on other platforms. If content publishers do not find our platform simple and attractive to develop channels for, do not value and participate in all of the features and functionality that our platform offers, or determine that our software developer kit or new features of our platform do not meet their certification requirements, our business may be harmed. Our quarterly operating results may be volatile and are difficult to predict, and our stock price may decline if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our revenue, gross profit and other operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and may fail to match our past performance due to a variety of factors, including many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our operating results and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate include: the entrance of new competitors or competitive products in our market, whether by established or new companies; our ability to retain and grow our active account base and increase engagement among new and existing users; our ability to maintain effective pricing practices, in response to the competitive markets in which we operate or other macroeconomic factors, such as inflation or increased product taxes; our revenue mix, which drives gross profit; seasonal or other shifts in advertising revenue or player sales; the timing of the launch of new or updated products, streaming channels or features; the addition or loss of popular content; the ability of retailers to anticipate consumer demand; an increase in the manufacturing or component costs of our players or the manufacturing or component costs of our TV brand licensees for Roku TVs; and an increase in costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, defending against third-party intellectual property infringement allegations or procuring rights to third-party intellectual property. 18 Our gross margins vary across our devices and platform offerings. Player revenue has a lower gross margin compared to platform revenue derived through our arrangements with advertising, content distribution, billing and licensing activities. Gross margins on our players vary across player models and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, component costs, player returns and other cost fluctuations. In addition, our gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be adversely impacted as a result of a shift in device, geographic or sales channel mix, component cost increases, price competition, or the introduction of new players, including those that have higher cost structures with flat or reduced pricing. We have in the past and may in the future strategically reduce our player gross margin in an effort to increase our active accounts and grow our gross profit. As a result, our player revenue may not increase as rapidly as it has historically, or at all, and, unless we are able to adequately increase our platform revenue and grow our active accounts, we may be unable to grow gross profit and our business will be harmed. If a reduction in gross margin does not result in an increase in our active accounts and gross profit, our financial results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. Our revenue and gross profit are subject to seasonality and if our sales during the holiday season fall below our expectations, our business may be harmed. Seasonal consumer shopping patterns significantly affect our business. Specifically, our revenue and gross profit are traditionally strongest in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and represent a high percentage of the total net revenue for such fiscal year due to higher consumer purchases and increased advertising during holiday periods. Furthermore, a significant percentage of our player sales through retailers in the fourth quarter are pursuant to committed sales agreements with retailers for which we recognize significant discounts in the average selling prices in the third quarter in an effort to grow our active accounts, which will reduce our player gross margin. Given the seasonal nature of our player sales, accurate forecasting is critical to our operations. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on revenue and gross profit is likely to continue and any shortfall in expected fourth quarter revenue, due to macroeconomic conditions, a decline in the effectiveness of our promotional activities, actions by our competitors or disruptions in our supply or distribution chain, or for any other reason, would cause our full year results of operations to suffer significantly. For example, delays or disruptions at U.S. ports of entry could adversely affect our or our licensees ability to timely deliver players and co-branded Roku TVs to retailers during the holiday season. A substantial portion of our expenses are personnel related and include salaries, stock-based compensation and benefits that are not seasonal in nature. Accordingly, in the event of a revenue shortfall, we would be unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins, at least in the short term, and our business would be harmed. We and our TV brand partners depend on our retail sales channels to effectively market and sell our players and Roku TVs, and if we or our partners fail to maintain and expand effective retail sales channels we could experience lower player or Roku TV sales. To continue to acquire new active accounts, we must maintain and expand our retail sales channels. The majority of our players and Roku TVs are sold through traditional brick and mortar retailers, such as Best Buy, Target and Walmart, including their online sales platforms, and online retailers such as Amazon. To a lesser extent, we sell players directly through our website and internationally through distributors. For the year ended December 31, 2018, Amazon, Best Buy and Walmart in total accounted for 68% of our player revenue and are expected to each account for more than 10% of our player revenue in fiscal 2019. These three retailers collectively accounted for 61% of our player revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. These retailers and our international distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. We have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these retailers or distributors. If one or several retailers or distributors were to discontinue selling our players or Roku TVs or choose not to prominently display those devices in their stores or on their websites, the volume of Roku devices sold could decrease, which would harm our business. For example, in April 2018, Amazon and Best Buy announced a partnership whereby two Best Buy controlled smart TV brands will exclusively utilize Amazons operating system, and such TVs will be sold by Best Buy and Amazon. Although this arrangement is not expected to limit our TV brand partners ability to sell on either Amazon or at Best Buy, if our existing TV brands choose to work with other operating system developers, this may impact our Roku TV program and our ability to continue to grow active accounts. Traditional retailers have limited shelf and end cap space in their 19 stores and limited promotional budgets, and online retailers have limited prime website product placement space. Competition is intense f or these resources, and a competitor with more extensive product lines and stronger brand identity, such as Apple or Google, possesses greater bargaining power with retailers. In addition, one of our online retailers, Amazon, sells its own competitive TV s treaming products and is able to market and promote these products more prominently on its website, and could refuse to offer our devices. Any reduction in our ability to place and promote our devices, or increased competition for available shelf or websit e placement, would require us to increase our marketing expenditures simply to maintain our product visibility, which may harm our business. In particular, the availability of product placement during peak retail periods, such as the holiday season, is cri tical to our revenue growth, and if we are unable to effectively sell our devices during these periods, our business would be harmed . If our efforts to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain users, and our business may be harmed. Building and maintaining a strong brand is important to attract and retain users, as potential users have a number of TV streaming choices. Successfully building a brand is a time consuming and comprehensive endeavor and can be positively and negatively impacted by any number of factors. Some of these factors, such as the quality or pricing of our players or our customer service, are within our control. Other factors, such as the quality and reliability of Roku TVs and the quality of the content that our content publishers provide, may be out of our control, yet users may nonetheless attribute those factors to us. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and market share more quickly and effectively than we can. Many of our competitors are larger companies and promote their brands through traditional forms of advertising, such as print media and TV commercials, and have substantial resources to devote to such efforts. Our competitors may also have greater resources to utilize internet advertising or website product placement more effectively than we can. If we are unable to execute on building a strong brand, it may be difficult to differentiate our business and platform from our competitors in the marketplace, therefore our ability to attract and retain users may be adversely affected and our business may be harmed. Our streaming platform allows our customers to choose from thousands of channels, representing a variety of content from a wide range of content publishers. Our customers can choose and control which channels they download and watch, and they can use parental control settings to prevent channels from being downloaded to our devices. While we have policies that prohibit the publication of content that is unlawful, incites illegal activities or violates third-party rights, among other things, we may distribute channels that include controversial content. Controversies related to the content included on certain of the channels that we distribute could result in negative publicity, cause harm to our reputation and brand or subject us to claims and may harm our business. We must successfully manage streaming device and other product introductions and transitions in order to remain competitive. We must continually develop new and improved streaming devices and other products that meet changing consumer demands. Moreover, the introduction of a new streaming device or other product is a complex task, involving significant expenditures in research and development, promotion and sales channel development. For example, in 2018, we introduced our new Roku TV Wireless Speaker, designed specifically for use with Roku TVs. Whether users will broadly adopt new products is not certain. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and competitively priced streaming devices and other products and add new desirable content and features to our platform. Moreover, we must introduce new streaming devices and other products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and we must secure production orders for those products from our contract manufacturers. The development of new products is a highly complex process, and while our research and development efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful. The successful development and introduction of new products depends on a number of factors, including the following: the accuracy of our forecasts for market requirements beyond near term visibility; our ability to anticipate and react to new technologies and evolving consumer trends; our development, licensing or acquisition of new technologies; 20 our timely completion of new designs and development; the ability of our contract manufacturer to cost-effectively manufacture our new products; the availability of materials and key components used in manufacturing; and our ability to attract and retain world-class research and development personnel. If any of these or other factors becomes problematic, we may not be able to develop and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our business may be harmed. We do not have manufacturing capabilities and primarily depend upon few contract manufacturers, and our operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with the contract manufacturers. We do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities and primarily rely upon one contract manufacturer, Foxconn Industrial Internet Co. Ltd., or Foxconn, to build our players. We similarly rely on one contract manufacturer, Tonly Electronics Holdings Ltd., or Tonly, to manufacture our wireless speakers. Our contract manufacturers may be vulnerable to capacity constraints and reduced component availability, and our control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs, particularly when components are in short supply or when we introduce a new player or other product or feature, is limited. In addition, we have limited control over Foxconns or Tonlys quality systems and controls, and therefore must rely on them to manufacture our players and other products to our quality and performance standards and specifications. Delays, component shortages and other manufacturing and supply problems could impair the retail distribution of our players and other products and ultimately our brand. Furthermore, any adverse change in our contract manufacturers financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply players to our retailers and distributors. Our contracts with our contract manufacturers generally do not obligate them to supply our players or other products in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In the event our contracts manufacturers are unable to fulfill our production requirements in a timely manner or decide to terminate their relationship with us, our order fulfillment may be delayed, and we would have to identify, select and qualify acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. Alternative contract manufacturers may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices or to our quality and performance standards. Any significant interruption in manufacturing at one of our contract manufacturers would require us to reduce our supply of players or other products to our retailers and distributors, which in turn would reduce our revenue. In addition, the Foxconn and Tonly facilities are located in the Peoples Republic of China and may be subject to political, economic, social and legal uncertainties that may harm our relationships with these parties. We believe that the international location of these facilities increases supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions. Furthermore, any manufacturing issues affecting the quality of our products, including wireless speakers, players, could harm our business. If either of our contract manufacturers fail for any reason to continue manufacturing our players or other products in required volumes and at high quality levels, or at all, we would have to identify, select and qualify acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. Alternative contract manufacturers may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices or to our quality and performance standards. Any significant interruption in manufacturing at a contract manufacturer could require us to reduce our supply of players or other products to our retailers and distributors, which in turn would reduce our revenue and user growth. Certain of our Roku TV brand partners do not have manufacturing capabilities and primarily depend upon contract manufacturers, and the supply of Roku TVs to the market could be disrupted if they encounter problems with their contract manufacturers or suppliers. Certain of our Roku TV brand partners do not have internal manufacturing capabilities and primarily rely upon contract manufacturers to build the Roku TVs that they sell to retailers. Their contract manufacturers may be vulnerable to capacity constraints and reduced component availability, and their control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs, particularly when components are in short supply may be limited. Delays, 21 component shortages and other manufacturing and supply problems could impair the retail distribution of their Roku TVs. A significant interruption in the supply of Roku TVs to retailers and distributors could, in turn, reduce our user growth. Furthermore, any manufacturing issues affecting the quality of our Roku TV brand partners Roku TVs, could harm our brand and our business. Changes in general economic conditions, geopolitical conditions, U.S. trade policies and other factors beyond our control may adversely impact our business and operating results. Our businesses are subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which our manufacturing sources are located. Our operations and performance depend significantly on global, regional and U.S. economic and geopolitical conditions. For example, there has been discussion and dialogue regarding potential significant changes to U.S. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. On November 30, 2018 the United States, Mexico, and Canada signed a replacement trade deal for NAFTA, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or USMCA, which still needs to be ratified by the respective government of each of the three countries. The USMCA could undergo changes that lead to further modifications of certain USMCA provisions before being passed into law. Furthermore, the current administration has threatened tougher trade terms with China and other countries, leading to the imposition of substantially higher U.S. Section 301 tariffs on $250 billion of imports from China so far and higher Chinese tariffs on a large amount of U.S. exports to China. In addition, the administration has threatened to impose Section 301 tariffs on an additional $267 billion of imports from China. At this time, it is unknown whether and to what extent new USMCA legislation will be passed into law, whether or how long U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods will remain in effect or whether additional tariffs imposed, or new regulatory proposals will be adopted, whether international trade agreements will be negotiated or existing free trade agreements re-negotiated, or the effect that any such action would have, either positively or negatively, on our industry or our business or licensees. If any new legislation and/or regulations are implemented, or if existing trade agreements are renegotiated or terminated, or if tariffs are imposed on foreign-sourced or U.S. goods, it may be inefficient and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with such changes. Such operational changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our commercial and/or strategic partners ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our commercial and/or strategic partners with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, the imposition of customs duties on intangible goods such as cross-border data flows which are currently duty-free under the WTOs temporary e-commerce moratorium, economic sanctions or related legislation, increased export and import controls stemming governmental policies, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or new customers in international markets. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would harm our business. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements and manage our inventory with our contract manufacturers, we could incur additional costs, experience manufacturing delays and lose revenue. We bear supply risk under our contract manufacturing arrangements with Foxconn and Tonly. Lead times for the materials and components that our contract manufacturers orders on our behalf through different component suppliers vary significantly and depend on numerous factors, including the specific supplier, contract terms and market demand for a component at a given time. Lead times for certain key materials and components incorporated into our players are currently lengthy, requiring our contract manufacturer to order materials and components several months in advance. If we overestimate our production requirements, our contract manufacturer may 22 purchase excess components and build excess inventory. If our contract manufacturer, at our request, purchase excess components that are unique to our players or build excess players, we could be required to pay for these excess components or players. In the past, we have agreed to reimburse our contract manufacturer for purchased components that were not used as a result of our decision to discontinue players or the use of particular components. If we incur costs to cover excess supply commitments, this would harm our business. Conversely, if we underestimate our player or other product requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate component inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing of our players or other products and result in delays or cancellation of orders from retailers and distributors. In addition, from time to time we have experienced unanticipated increases in demand that resulted in the need to ship players via air freight, which is more expensive than ocean freight, and adversely affected our player gross margin during such periods of high demand, for example, during end-of-year holidays. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements, our business may be harmed. Our players incorporate key components from sole source suppliers and if our contract manufacturer is unable to source these components on a timely basis, due to fabrication capacity issues or other material supply constraints, we will not be able to deliver our players to our retailers and distributors. We depend on sole source suppliers for key components in our players. Our players utilize specific system on chip, or SoC, Wi-Fi silicon products and Wi-Fi front-end modules from various manufacturers, depending on the player, for which we do not have a second source. Although this approach allows us to maximize player performance on lower cost hardware, reduce engineering qualification costs and develop stronger relationships with our strategic suppliers, this also creates supply chain risk. These sole source suppliers could be constrained by fabrication capacity issues or material supply issues, stop producing such components, cease operations or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, our competitors or other companies. Any such interruption or delay may force us to seek similar components from alternative sources, which may not be available. Switching from a sole source supplier would require that we redesign our players to accommodate new components and would require us to re-qualify our players with regulatory bodies, such as the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, which would be costly and time-consuming. Our reliance on sole source suppliers involves a number of additional risks, including risks related to: supplier capacity constraints; price increases; timely delivery; component quality; and delays in, or the inability to execute on, a supplier roadmap for components and technologies. Any interruption in the supply of sole source components for our players could adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled player deliveries to our retailers and distributors, result in lost sales and higher expenses and harm our business. If we have difficulty managing our growth in operating expenses, our business could be harmed. We have experienced significant growth in research and development, sales and marketing, support services and operations in recent years and expect to continue to expand these activities. Our historical growth has placed, and expected future growth will continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to: manage a larger organization; hire more employees, including engineers with relevant skills and experience; expand our manufacturing and distribution capacity; 23 increase our sales and marketing efforts; broaden our customer support capabilities; support a larger number of TV brand and service operators; implement appropriate operational and financial systems; expand internationally; and maintain effective financial disclosure