Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. In addition, you should consider the interrelationship and compounding effects of two or more risks occurring simultaneously. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our Class A common stock speculative or risky: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry the highly competitive nature of the TV streaming industry that is rapidly evolving; our ability to monetize our streaming platform; our ability to attract advertisers and advertising agencies to our demand-side advertising platform; our ability to develop relationships with TV brands and service operators; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with important content publishers; popular or new content publishers not publishing their content on our streaming platform; maintaining an adequate supply of quality video ad inventory on our platform and selling the available supply; content publishers electing not to participate in platform features that we develop; irrelevant or unengaging advertising, marketing campaigns or other promotional advertising on our platform; our ability to attract users to and generate revenue from The Roku Channel; users signing up for offerings and services outside of our platform; the evolution of our industry and the impact of many factors that our outside of our control; changes in consumer viewing habits; our and our Roku TV brand partners reliance on retail sales channels to sell products; our ability to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty; advertiser and/or advertising agency delayed payment or failure to pay; maintaining adequate customer support levels; our ability to manage streaming device and other product introductions and transitions; our and our Roku TV brand partners reliance on contract manufacturers and limited manufacturing capabilities; our ability to forecast manufacturing requirements and manage inventory; our ability to obtain key components from sole source suppliers; interoperability of our streaming devices with content publishers offerings, technologies and systems; detecting hardware errors or software bugs in our products before they are released to users; component manufacturing, design or other defects that render our devices permanently inoperable; our ability to obtain necessary or desirable third-party technology licenses; Risks Related to Operating and Growing Our Business our history of operating losses; volatility of our quarterly operating results that could cause our stock price to decline; our ability to manage our growth; our ability to successfully expand our international operations; seasonality of our business and its impact our revenue and gross profit; attracting and retaining key personnel and managing succession; maintaining systems that can support our growth, business arrangements and financial rules; our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and investments and integrate acquired businesses; our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding credit facility; 13 our ability to secure funds to meet our financial obligations and support our planned business growth; Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Reliability and Data Privacy significant disruptions of information technology systems or data security breaches; legal obligations and potential liability related to our users personal information; our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect the personal and confidential information; disruptions in computer systems or other services that results in a degradation of our platform; changes in how network operators manage data that travel across their networks; Risks Related to Intellectual Property litigation resulting in the loss of important intellectual property rights; failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights; our use of open source software; our agreement to indemnify certain of our partners if our technology is alleged to infringe on third-parties intellectual property rights; Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions the current and future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business; natural disasters or other catastrophic events; Legal and Regulatory Risks enactment of or changes to government regulation or laws related to our business; changes in general economic conditions, geopolitical conditions, and/or U.S. trade policies that impact our business; U.S. or international rules that permit ISPs to limit internet data consumption by users; changes to current or future laws, regulations or government actions that impact our partners; liability for content that is distributed through or advertising that is served through our platform; our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting; the impact of changes in accounting principles; compliance with laws and regulations related to the collection of sales tax and payment of income tax; changes to U.S. or foreign taxation laws or regulations; regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings; Risks Related to Ownership of our Class A Common Stock The dual class structure of our Class A common stock; The volatility in the trading price of our Class A common stock; Potential dilution or a decline in our stock price caused by future sales or issuance of our capital stock or rights to purchase capital stock; A decline in our stock prices caused by future sales by existing stockholders; Dependency on favorable securities and industry analyst reports; The significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with being a publicly-traded company; The absence of dividends on our Class A or Class B common stock; anti-takeover provisions in our charter; and the limitations resulting from our selection of the Delaware Court of Chancery and the federal district courts of the United States as the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders. 14 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry TV streaming is highly competitive and many companies, including large technology companies, content owners and aggregators, TV brands and service operators, are actively focusing on this industry. If we fail to differentiate ourselves and compete successfully with these companies, it will be difficult for us to attract and retain users and our business will be harmed. TV streaming is highly competitive and global. Our success depends in part on attracting and retaining users on, and effective monetization of, our streaming platform. To attract and retain users, we need to be able to respond efficiently to changes in consumer tastes and preferences and to offer our users access to the content they love on terms that they accept. Effective monetization requires us to continue to update the features and functionality of our streaming platform for users, content publishers and advertisers. We also must effectively support popular sources of streaming content that are available on our platform, such as Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, Discovery+, HBO Max, Hulu, Peacock, Netflix and YouTube. And we must respond rapidly to actual and anticipated market trends in the TV streaming industry. Companies such as Amazon, Apple and Google offer TV streaming devices that compete with our streaming players. In addition, Google licenses its Android operating system software for integration into smart TVs and service provider set-top boxes, and Amazon licenses its operating system software for integration into smart TVs. These companies have greater financial resources than we do and can subsidize the cost of their streaming devices in order to promote their other products and services, which could make it harder for us to acquire new users, retain existing users and increase streaming hours. These companies could also implement standards or technology that are not compatible with our products or that provide a better streaming experience. These companies also promote their brands through traditional forms of advertising, such as TV commercials, as well as digital advertising or website product placement, and have greater resources to devote to such efforts than we do. In addition, many TV brands offer their own TV streaming solutions within their TVs. Other devices, such as game consoles and many DVD and Blu-ray players, also incorporate TV streaming functionality. Similarly, some service operators offer TV streaming applications as part of their cable service plans and can leverage their existing consumer bases, installation networks, broadband delivery networks and name recognition to gain traction in the TV streaming market. If consumers of TV streaming content prefer alternative products to our streaming players and our partners' Roku TV models, we may not be able to achieve our expected growth in active accounts, streaming hours, revenue, gross profit or ARPU. We expect competition in TV streaming from the large technology companies and service operators described above, as well as new and growing companies, to increase in the future. This increased competition could result in pricing pressure, lower revenue and gross profit or the failure of our players, Roku TV models or our platform to gain or maintain broad market acceptance. To remain competitive and maintain our position as a leading TV streaming platform we need to continuously invest in our platform, product development, marketing, service and support and device distribution infrastructure. In addition, evolving TV standards such as 8K, HDR and unknown future developments may require further investments in the development of our players, Roku TV models, and our platform. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investments needed to maintain our competitive position. In addition, most of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than us, which provide them with advantages in developing, marketing or servicing new products and offerings. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to market demand, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sales and distribution of their products or their content, and influence market acceptance of their products better than we can. These competitors may also be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and may be able to deliver products and services at a lower cost. Increased competition could reduce our sales volume, revenue and operating margins, increase our operating costs, harm our competitive position and otherwise harm our business. In July 2018, we introduced our Roku TV Wireless Speakers, designed specifically for use with Roku TV models, in September 2019, we launched our Roku Smart Soundbar and Roku Wireless Subwoofer and in September 2020, we launched our Roku Streambar. As a result of these developments, we may face additional competition from makers of TV audio speakers and soundbars, as well as makers of other TV peripheral devices. While our audio products have not generated material amounts of revenue, if these products do not operate as designed or do not enhance the Roku TV or other viewing experience as we intend, our users overall viewing experience may be diminished, and this may impact the overall demand for Roku TV models or our other products. 15 We also compete for video viewing hours with mobile platforms (phones and tablets), and users may prefer to view streaming content on such devices. Increased use of mobile or other platforms for TV streaming could adversely impact the growth of our streaming hours, harm our competitive position and otherwise harm our business. Our future growth depends on the acceptance and growth of OTT advertising and OTT advertising platforms. We operate in a highly competitive advertising industry and we compete for revenue from advertising with other streaming platforms and services, as well as traditional media, such as radio, broadcast, cable and satellite TV, and satellite and internet radio. These competitors offer content and other advertising mediums that may be more attractive to advertisers than our streaming platform. These competitors are often very large and have more advertising experience and financial resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete for advertisers and may result in lower revenue and gross profit from advertising. If we are unable to increase our revenue from advertising by, among other things, continuing to improve our platforms capabilities to further optimize and measure advertisers campaigns, increase our advertising inventory and expand our advertising sales team and programmatic capabilities, our business and our growth prospects may be harmed. We may not be able to compete effectively or adapt to any such changes or trends, which would harm our ability to grow our advertising revenue and harm our business. Many advertisers continue to devote a substantial portion of their advertising budgets to traditional advertising, such as linear TV, radio and print. The future growth of our business depends on the growth of OTT advertising, and on advertisers increasing their spend on advertising on our platform. Although traditional TV advertisers showed growing interest in OTT advertising during 2020, we cannot be certain that their interest will continue to increase or that they will not revert to traditional TV advertising, especially if our users no longer stream TV or significantly reduce the amount of TV they stream either as a result of lifting of stay-at-home orders, the end of the COVID-19 pandemic or for other reasons. If advertisers, or their agency relationships, do not perceive meaningful benefits of OTT advertising, the market may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely impact our operating results and our ability to grow our business. We may not be successful in our efforts to further monetize our streaming platform, which may harm our business. Our business model depends on our ability to generate platform revenue from advertisers and content publishers. We generate platform revenue primarily from advertising and audience development campaigns that run across our streaming platform and from content distribution services. As such, we are seeking to expand the number of active accounts and increase the number of hours that are streamed across our platform in an effort to create additional platform revenue opportunities. As our user base grows and as we increase the amount of content offered and streamed across our platform, we must effectively monetize our expanding user base and streaming activity. The total number of streaming hours, however, does not correlate with platform revenue on a period-by-period basis, primarily because we do not monetize every hour streamed on our platform. Moreover, streaming hours on our platform are measured whenever a player or a Roku TV is streaming content, whether a viewer is actively watching or not. For example, if a player is connected to a TV, and the viewer turns off the TV, steps away or falls asleep and does not stop or pause the player then the particular streaming channel may continue to play content for a period of time determined by the streaming channel. We believe that this also occurs across a wide variety of non-Roku streaming devices and other set-top boxes. Beginning in the third quarter of 2019 through the first quarter of 2020, we updated the Roku OS with a feature that is designed to identify when content has been continuously streaming on a channel for an extended period of time without user interaction. This feature, which we refer to as Are you still watching, periodically prompts the user to confirm that they are still watching the selected channel and closes the channel if the user does not respond affirmatively. We believe that the implementation of this feature across the Roku platform benefits us, our customers, channel partners and advertisers. Some of our leading channel partners, including Netflix, also have similar features within their channels. This Roku OS feature supplements these channel features. This feature has not had and is not expected to have a material impact on our financial performance. Our ability to deliver more relevant advertisements to our users and to increase our platforms value to advertisers and content publishers depends on the collection of user engagement data, which may be restricted or prevented by a number of factors. Users may decide to opt out or restrict our ability to collect personal viewing data or to provide them with more relevant advertisements. Content publishers may also refuse to allow us to collect data regarding user engagement or refuse to implement mechanisms we request to ensure compliance with our legal obligations or technical requirements. For example, we are not able to fully utilize program level viewing data from many of our most popular channels to improve the relevancy of advertisements provided to our users. Other channels available on our platform, such 16 as Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV+, Hulu and YouTube, are focused on increasing user engagement and time spent within their channel by allowing users to purchase additional content and streaming services within their channels. In addition, we do not currently monetize content provided on non-certified channels, which are not displayed in our channel store and must be added manually by the user, on our streaming platform. If our users spend most of their time within particular channels where we have limited or no ability to place advertisements or leverage user information, or users opt out from our ability to collect data for use in providing more relevant advertisements, we may not be able to achieve our expected growth in platform revenue or gross profit. If we are unable to further monetize our streaming platform, our business may be harmed. In order to materially increase the monetization of our streaming platform through the sale of video advertising, we will need our users to stream significantly more ad-supported content. Our efforts to monetize our streaming platform through ad-supported content are still developing and may not continue to grow as we expect. Further, while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in our revenue from advertising, our efforts to monetize our streaming platform through the distribution of AVOD content are still developing and our advertising revenue may not grow as we expect. This means of monetization will require us to continue to attract advertising dollars to our streaming platform as well as deliver AVOD content that appeals to users. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in monetizing our streaming platform through the distribution of ad-supported content. If we are unable to attract advertisers or advertising agencies to our OneView Ad Platform or if we are not successful in running a demand-side advertising platform, our business may be harmed. In 2020, we announced the rebranding of the OneView Ad Platform, a demand-side platform through which advertisers and advertising agencies can programmatically purchase and manage their OTT, desktop and mobile advertising campaigns. OneView leverages the DSP developed by dataxu, which we acquired in November 2019, and integrates the reach, inventory and capabilities of our proprietary advertising products and services. The market for programmatic OTT ad buying is an emerging market, and our current and potential advertisers and advertising agencies may not shift to programmatic ad buying from other buying methods as quickly as we expect or at all. If the market for programmatic OTT ad buying deteriorates or develops more slowly than we expect, advertisers and advertising agencies may not use OneView or we may not attract prospective advertisers or advertising agencies to OneView, and our business could be harmed. In addition, we have limited experience running a DSP and if OneView does not have the functionality or services expected by advertisers or advertising agencies, we may not be able to attract their advertising spend to OneView or our existing customers may not maintain or increase their spend on OneView. If we fail to adapt to our rapidly changing industry or to our customers evolving needs, advertisers and advertising agencies will not adopt OneView and our business may be harmed. We also may not be able to compete effectively with more established DSPs or be able to adapt to changes or trends in programmatic OTT advertising, which would harm our ability to grow our advertising revenue and harm our business. Our growth will depend in part on our ability to develop and expand our relationships with TV brand partners in the United States and international markets and, to a lesser extent, service operators. We have developed, and intend to continue to develop and expand, relationships with TV brand partners and, to a lesser extent, service operators in both the United States and international markets. Our licensing arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and complete. Our current and potential partners include TV brands, cable and satellite companies and telecommunication providers. We continue to invest in the growth and expansion of our Roku TV program both in the United States and International markets. Our licensing program for service operators has historically been primarily focused on international markets and has not been growing in scale in recent years, as we have shifted the focus of our international growth to the sale of Roku streaming players and Roku TV models. In the past few years, the sale of Roku TV models by our TV brand partners has materially contributed to our active account growth, to our streaming hours, and to our platform monetization efforts. This growth has primarily been in the United States; however, our Roku TV licensing program has been expanded to certain international markets. We license the Roku OS and our smart TV reference designs to certain TV brand partners to manufacture co-branded smart TVs. We have not received, nor do we expect to receive, license revenue from these arrangements, but we expect to incur expenses in connection with these commercial agreements. The primary economic benefits that we derive from these license arrangements have been and will likely continue to be indirect, primarily from growing our active accounts, increasing streaming hours and generating advertising-related revenues on our platform. If these arrangements do not continue to 17 result in increased active accounts and streaming hours, and if that growth does not in turn lead to successfully monetizing that increased user activity, our business may be harmed. The loss of a relationship with a TV brand or service operator could harm our results of operations, damage our reputation, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, or increase our marketing costs. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships with any of these third parties, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our development of these relationships, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. Under these license arrangements, we generally have limited control over the amount and timing of resources these entities dedicate to the relationship. If our TV brand or service operator partners fail to meet their forecasts for distributing licensed streaming devices, or chose to deploy competing streaming solutions within their product lines, our business may be harmed. We depend on a small number of content publishers for a majority of our streaming hours, and if we fail to maintain these relationships, our business could be harmed. Historically, a small number of content publishers have accounted for a significant portion of the hours streamed on our platform. In the year ended December 31, 2020, the top three streaming services represented over 50% of all hours streamed in the period. If, for any reason, we cease distributing channels that have historically streamed a large percentage of the aggregate streaming hours on our platform, our streaming hours, active accounts or streaming device sales may be adversely affected, and our business may be harmed. If popular or new content publishers do not publish content on our platform, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users. We must continuously maintain existing relationships and identify and establish new relationships with content publishers to provide popular streaming channels and popular content. In order to remain competitive, we must consistently meet user demand for popular streaming channels and content; particularly as we launch new players, new Roku TV models are introduced, or we enter new markets, including international markets. If we are not successful in helping our content publishers launch and maintain streaming channels that attract and retain a significant number of users on our streaming platform or if we are not able to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business will be harmed. Our ability to successfully help content publishers maintain and expand their channel offerings on a cost-effective basis largely depends on our ability to: effectively promote and market new and existing streaming channels; minimize launch delays of new and updated streaming channels; and minimize streaming platform downtime and other technical difficulties. In addition, if service operators, including pay TV providers, refuse to grant our users access to stream certain channels or only make content available on devices they prefer, our ability to offer a broad selection of popular streaming channels or content may be limited. If we fail to help our content publishers maintain and expand their audiences on the Roku platform or their channels are not available on our platform, our business may be harmed. Most of our agreements with content publishers are not long term and can be terminated by the content publishers under certain circumstances. Any disruption in the renewal of such agreements may result in the removal of certain channels from our streaming platform and may harm our active account growth and engagement. We enter into agreements with all our content publishers, which have varying terms and conditions, including expiration dates. Our agreements with content publishers generally have terms of one to three years and can be terminated before the end of the term by the content publisher under certain circumstances, such as if we materially breach the agreement, become insolvent, enter bankruptcy, commit fraud or fail to adhere to the content publishers security or other platform certification requirements. Upon expiration of these agreements, we are required to re-negotiate and renew them in order to continue providing content from these content publishers on our streaming platform. We have in the past been unable, and in the future may not be able, to reach a satisfactory agreement with certain content publishers before our existing agreements have expired. If we are unable to renew such agreements on a timely basis on mutually agreeable terms, we may be required to temporarily or permanently remove certain channels from our streaming platform. The loss of such channels from our streaming platform for any period of time may harm our business. More broadly, if we fail to 18 maintain our relationships with the content publishers on terms favorable to us, or at all, or if these content publishers face problems in delivering their content across our platform, we may lose channel partners or users and our business may be harmed. If we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of quality video ad inventory on our platform or effectively sell our available video ad inventory, our business may be harmed. Our business model depends on our ability to grow video ad inventory on our streaming platform and sell it to advertisers. While The Roku Channel serves as a valuable source of video ad inventory for us to sell, we are also dependent on our ability to monetize video ad inventory within other ad-supported channels on our streaming platform. We seek to obtain the ability to sell such inventory from the content publishers of such channels. We may fail to attract content publishers that generate a sufficient quantity or quality of ad-supported content hours on our streaming platform, or fail to obtain access to a sufficient quantity and quality of ad inventory from the publishers of such content. Our access to video ad inventory in ad-supported streaming channels on our platform varies greatly among channels; accordingly, we do not have access to all of the video ad inventory on our platform. For certain channels, including YouTubes ad supported channel, we have no access to video ad inventory at this time, and we may not secure access in the future. The amount, quality and cost of video ad inventory available to us can change at any time. If we are unable to grow and maintain a sufficient supply of quality video ad inventory at reasonable costs to keep up with demand, our business may be harmed. If our content publishers do not participate in new features that we may introduce from time to time, our business may be harmed. As our streaming platform and products evolve, we will continue to introduce new features, which may or may not be attractive to our content publishers or meet their requirements. For example, some content publishers have elected not to participate in our cross-channel search feature, our integrated advertising framework, or have imposed limits on our data gathering for usage within their channels. In addition, our streaming platform utilizes our proprietary Brightscript scripting language in order to allow our content publishers to develop and create channels on our streaming platform. If we introduce new features or utilize a new scripting language in the future, such a change may not comply with our content publishers' certification requirements. In addition, our content publishers may find other languages, such as HTML5, more attractive to develop for and shift their resources to developing their channels on other platforms. If content publishers do not find our streaming platform simple and attractive to develop channels for, do not value and participate in all of the features and functionality that our streaming platform offers, or determine that our software developer kit or new features of our platform do not meet their certification requirements, our business may be harmed. If the advertising and audience development campaigns and other promotional advertising on our platform are not relevant or not engaging to our users, our growth in active accounts and streaming hours may be adversely impacted. We have made, and are continuing to make, investments to enable advertisers and content publishers to deliver relevant advertisement, audience development campaigns and other promotional advertising to our users. Existing and prospective advertisers and content publishers may not be successful in serving ads and audience development campaigns and sponsoring other promotional advertising that lead to and maintain user engagement. Those ads and campaigns may seem irrelevant, repetitive or overly targeted and intrusive. We are continuously seeking to balance the objectives of our advertisers and content publishers with our desire to provide an optimal user experience, but we may not be successful in achieving a balance that continues to attract and retain users, advertisers and content publishers. If we do not introduce relevant advertisers, audience development campaigns and other promotional adverting or such advertisements, audience development campaigns and other promotional advertising are overly intrusive and impede the use of our streaming platform, our users may stop using our platform which will harm our business. The Roku Channel may not continue to attract a large number of users and/or generate significant revenue from advertising, and our users may not purchase Premium Subscriptions. We operate The Roku Channel, which offers both ad-supported free access for users to a collection of films, television series and other content as well as Premium Subscriptions, which allowing our users to pay for ad-free content from various content publishers, all on one streaming channel. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs and expenses in connection with the development, expansion and operation of The Roku Channel, which we monetize primarily through advertising. For example, in the first quarter of 2021, we acquired global content distribution rights, including rights to certain projects in development, from the mobile-first video distribution service known as Quibi, and announced 19 that The Roku Channel will become the home of such content. If our users do not continue to stream the free, ad-supported content we make available on The Roku Channel, we will not have the opportunity to monetize The Roku Channel through revenue generated from advertising. In order to attract users to the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel and drive streaming of ad-supported video on The Roku Channel, we must secure rights to stream content that is appealing to our users and advertisers. In part, we do this by directly licensing certain content from content owners, such as television and movie studios. The agreements that we enter into with these content owners have varying terms and provide us with rights to make specific content available through The Roku Channel during certain periods of time. Upon expiration of these agreements, we are required to re-negotiate and renew these agreements with the content owners, or enter into new agreements with other content owners, in order to obtain rights to distribute additional titles or to extend the duration of the rights previously granted. If we are unable to enter into content license agreements on acceptable terms to access content that enables us to attract and retain users of the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel, or if the content we do secure rights to stream, including for example the content that we acquired through the Quibi transaction described above, is ultimately not appealing to our users and advertisers, usage of The Roku Channel may decline, and our business may be harmed. Furthermore, if the advertisements on The Roku Channel are not relevant to our users or such advertisements are overly intrusive and impede our users enjoyment of the available content, our users may not stream content and view advertisements on The Roku Channel, and The Roku Channel may not generate sufficient revenue from advertising to be cost effective for us to operate, regardless of our ability to sell Premium Subscriptions. In addition, we distribute The Roku Channel on platforms other than our own streaming platform, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting a large number of users and/or generating significant revenue from advertising through the distribution of The Roku Channel on such other streaming platforms. If our users sign up for offerings and services outside of our platform or through other channels on our platform, our business may be harmed. We earn revenue by acquiring subscribers for certain of our content publishers activated on or through our platform. If users do not use our platform for these purchases or subscriptions for any reason, and instead pay for services directly with content publishers or by other means that we do not receive attribution for, our business may be harmed. In addition, certain channels available on our platform allow users to purchase additional streaming services from within their channels. The revenue we earn from these transactions is generally not equivalent to the revenue we earn from activations on or through our platform that we receive full attribution credit for. Furthermore, for Premium Subscriptions, we only earn revenue for SVOD channels, including subscriptions to these services through The Roku Channel. Accordingly, if users activate subscriptions for SVOD channels, including channels available as Premium Subscriptions, other than on our platform, our business may be harmed. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry that will be impacted by many factors that our outside of our control, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. TV streaming is a rapidly evolving industry, making our business and prospects difficult to evaluate. The growth and profitability of this industry and the level of demand and market acceptance for our products and streaming platform are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. We believe that the continued growth of streaming as an entertainment alternative will depend on the availability and growth of cost-effective broadband internet access, the quality of broadband content delivery, the quality and reliability of new devices and technology, the cost for users relative to other sources of content, as well as the quality and breadth of content that is delivered across streaming platforms. Accordingly, the future evolution of TV streaming as an industry, which is likely to impact our success, is dependent many of the factors that are outside of our control. Changes in consumer viewing habits could harm our business. The manner in which consumers access streaming content is changing rapidly. As the technological infrastructure for internet access continues to improve and evolve, consumers will be presented with more opportunities to access video, music and games on-demand with interactive capabilities. Time spent on mobile devices is growing rapidly, in particular by young adults streaming content as well as content from cable or satellite providers available live or on-demand on mobile devices. In addition, personal computers, smart TVs, DVD players, Blu-ray players, gaming consoles and cable set-top boxes allow users to access streaming content. If other streaming or technology providers are able to respond and take advantage of changes in consumer viewing habits and technologies better than us, our business could be harmed. 20 New entrants may enter the TV streaming market with unique service offerings or approaches to providing video. In addition, our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. If new technologies render the TV streaming market obsolete or we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors and technologies, our business will be harmed. We and our Roku TV brand partners depend on our retail sales channels to effectively market and sell our players and Roku TV models, and if we or our partners fail to maintain and expand effective retail sales channels, we could experience lower player or Roku TV model sales. To continue to increase our active accounts, we must maintain and expand our retail sales channels. The majority of our players and our TV brand partners' Roku TV models are sold through traditional brick and mortar retailers, such as Best Buy, Target and Walmart, including their online sales platforms, and online retailers such as Amazon. To a lesser extent, we sell players directly through our website and internationally through distributors. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Amazon, Best Buy and Walmart in total accounted for 69% of our player segment revenue. These three retailers collectively accounted for 72% and 68% of our player revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These retailers and our international distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. We have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these retailers or distributors. If one or several retailers or distributors were to discontinue selling our players or our TV brand partners' Roku TV models, choose not to prominently display those devices in their stores or on their websites, or close or severely limit access to their brick and mortar locations because of shutdowns related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the volume of our streaming devices sold could decrease, which would harm our business. If any of our existing TV brands choose to work exclusively with, or divert a significant portion of their business with us to, other operating system developers, this may impact our ability to license the Roku OS and our smart TV reference design to TV brands and our ability to continue to grow active accounts. Traditional retailers have limited shelf and end cap space in their stores and limited promotional budgets, and online retailers have limited prime website product placement space. Competition is intense for these resources, and a competitor with more extensive product lines and stronger brand identity, such as Amazon or Google, possesses greater bargaining power with retailers. In addition, one of our online retailers, Amazon, sells its own competitive streaming devices and is able to market and promote these products more prominently on its website, and could refuse to offer or promote our devices on its website. Any reduction in our ability to place and promote our devices, or increased competition for available shelf or website placement, could require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain our product visibility or result in reduced visibility for our products, which may harm our business. In particular, the availability of product placement during peak retail periods, such as the holiday season, is critical to our revenue growth, and if we are unable to effectively sell our devices during these periods, our business would be harmed. If our efforts to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain users, and our business may be harmed. Building and maintaining a strong brand is important to attract and retain users, as potential users have a number of TV streaming choices. Successfully building a brand is a time consuming and comprehensive endeavor and can be positively and negatively impacted by any number of factors. Certain factors, such as the quality or pricing of our players or our customer service, are within our control. Other factors, such as the quality and reliability of Roku TV models and the quality of the content that our content publishers provide, may be out of our control, yet users may nonetheless attribute those factors to us. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and market share more quickly and effectively than we can. Many of our competitors are larger companies and promote their brands through traditional forms of advertising, such as print media and TV commercials, and have substantial resources to devote to such efforts. Our competitors may also have greater resources to utilize digital advertising or website product placement more effectively than we can. If we are unable to execute on building a strong brand, it may be difficult to differentiate our business and streaming platform from our competitors in the marketplace, therefore our ability to attract and retain users may be adversely affected and our business may be harmed. Our streaming platform allows our users to choose from thousands of channels, representing a variety of content from a wide range of content publishers. Our users can choose and control which channels they download and watch, and they can use certain settings to prevent channels from being downloaded to our streaming devices. While we have policies that prohibit the publication of content that is unlawful, incites illegal activities or violates third-party rights, among other things, we may distribute channels that include controversial content. Controversies related to the content included on certain of the channels that we distribute could result in negative publicity, cause harm to our reputation and brand, or subject us to claims and may harm our business. 21 We are subject to payment-related risks and, if our advertisers or advertising agencies do not pay or dispute their invoices, our business may be harmed. Many of our contracts with advertising agencies provide that if the advertiser does not pay the agency, the agency is not liable to us, and we must seek payment solely from the advertiser, a type of arrangement called sequential liability. Contracting with these agencies, which in some cases have or may develop higher-risk credit profiles, may subject us to greater credit risk than if we were to contract directly with advertisers. This credit risk may vary depending on the nature of an advertising agencys aggregated advertiser base. In addition, typically, we are contractually required to pay advertising inventory data suppliers within a negotiated period of time, regardless of whether our advertisers or advertising agencies pay us on time, or at all. In addition, we typically experience slow payment cycles by advertising agencies as is common in the advertising industry. While we attempt to balance payment periods with our suppliers and advertisers and advertising agencies, we are not always successful. As a result, we can often face a timing issue with our accounts payable on shorter cycles than our accounts receivables, requiring us to remit payments from our own funds, and accept the risk of credit losses. We may also be involved in disputes with agencies and their advertisers over the operation of our streaming platform, the terms of our agreements or our billings for purchases made by them through on our streaming platform or through our DSP. If we are unable to collect or make adjustments to bills, we could incur credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which the write-offs occur. In the future, bad debt may exceed reserves for such contingencies and our bad debt exposure may increase over time. Any increase in write-offs for bad debt could have a materially negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are not paid by our advertisers or advertising agencies on time or at all, our business may be harmed. The quality of our customer support is important to our users and licensees, and, if we fail to provide adequate levels of customer support, we could lose users and licensees, which would harm our business. Our users and licensees depend on our customer support organization to resolve any issues relating to our devices. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our devices. We currently outsource our customer support operation to a third-party customer support organization. If we do not effectively train, update and manage our third-party customer support organization to assist our users, and if that support organization does not succeed in helping them quickly resolve issues or provide effective ongoing support, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our devices to users and harm our reputation with potential new users and our licensees. We must successfully manage streaming device and other product introductions and transitions to remain competitive. We must continually develop new and improved streaming devices and other products that meet changing consumer demands. Moreover, the introduction of a new streaming device or other product is a complex task, involving significant expenditures in research and development, promotion and sales channel development. For example, in 2018, we introduced our Roku TV Wireless Speakers, designed specifically for use with Roku TV models, in 2019 we introduced our Roku Smart Soundbar and Roku Wireless Subwoofer, and in 2020 we launched our Roku Streambar. Whether users will broadly adopt new streaming devices or other products is not certain. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and competitively priced streaming devices and other products and add new desirable content and features to our streaming platform. Moreover, we must introduce new streaming devices and other products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and we must secure production orders for those products from our contract manufacturers. The development of new streaming devices and other products is a highly complex process, and while our research and development efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful. The successful development and introduction of new streaming devices and products depends on a number of factors, including: the accuracy of our forecasts for market requirements beyond near term visibility; our ability to anticipate and react to new technologies and evolving consumer trends; our development, licensing or acquisition of new technologies; our timely completion of new designs and development; the ability of our contract manufacturers to cost-effectively manufacture our new products; the availability of materials and key components used in manufacturing; 22 tariffs and trade and export restrictions by the U.S. or foreign governments which could impact the pricing and availability of such devices and depress consumer demand; limit the ability of our contract manufacturers to obtain key parts, components, software, and technologies; lead to shortages; and our ability to attract and retain world-class research and development personnel. If any of these or other factors materializes, we may not be able to develop and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our business may be harmed. We do not have manufacturing capabilities and primarily depend upon a limited number of contract manufacturers, and our operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with our contract manufacturers. We do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities and rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to build our players, smart soundbars, wireless subwoofers and our wireless speakers. Our contract manufacturers are vulnerable to: capacity constraints, reduced component availability, production disruptions or delays, including from strikes, mechanical issues, quality control issues, natural disasters, and public health crises, such as the pandemic caused by the outbreak of the coronavirus, known as COVID-19; and the impact of U.S. or foreign tariffs or trade restrictions on components, finished goods, software, or other products; increases in U.S. tariffs on imports of our players; and foreign tariffs on U.S. parts or components for finished players or other Roku products that are assembled in Asia. As a result, we have limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs, particularly when components are in short supply or when we introduce new streaming devices or other products. For example, during the quarter ended March 31, 2020, one of our contract manufacturers experienced extended factory closures related to the spread of COVID-19 resulting in supply chain disruptions for our players and elevated air freight costs to meet demand. We also have limited control over our contract manufacturers quality systems and controls, and therefore must rely on them to manufacture our players and other products to our quality and performance standards and specifications. Delays, component shortages and other manufacturing and supply problems could impair the retail distribution of our players and other products and ultimately our brand. Furthermore, any adverse change in our contract manufacturers financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply our players or other products to our retailers and distributors. Our contracts with our contract manufacturers generally do not obligate them to supply our players or other products in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In the event our contract manufacturers are unable to fulfill our production requirements in a timely manner, their costs increase because of U.S. or international tariffs or export or import restrictions, or they decide to terminate their relationship with us, our order fulfillment may be delayed, and we would have to identify, select and qualify acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. Alternative contract manufacturers may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices, to our quality and performance standards or at all. Any significant interruption in manufacturing at our contract manufacturers for any reason could require us to reduce our supply of players or other products to our retailers and distributors, which in turn would reduce our revenue, or to incur higher freight costs than anticipated, which would negatively impact our player gross margin. In addition, our contract manufacturers facilities are located in Southeast Asia , the Peoples Republic of China and Brazil and may be subject to political, economic, labor, trade, social and legal uncertainties that may harm or disrupt our relationships with these parties. We believe that the international location of these facilities increases supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions, tariffs, and trade restrictions on exports or imports. Furthermore, any manufacturing issues affecting the quality of our products, including players and audio products, could harm our business. If our contract manufacturers fail for any reason to continue manufacturing our players or other products in required volumes and at high quality levels, or at all, we would have to identify, select and qualify acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. Alternative contract manufacturers may not be available to us when needed, or at all, or may not be 23 in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices, to our quality and performance standards, or at all. Any significant interruption in manufacturing at a contract manufacturer could require us to reduce our supply of players or other products to our retailers and distributors, which in turn would reduce our revenue, active account growth or streaming hour growth. Certain Roku TV brands do not have manufacturing capabilities and primarily depend upon contract manufacturers, and the supply of Roku TV models to the market could be disrupted if they encounter problems with their contract manufacturers or suppliers. Certain Roku TV brands do not have internal manufacturing capabilities and primarily rely upon contract manufacturers to build the Roku TV models that they sell to retailers. Their contract manufacturers may be vulnerable to capacity constraints and reduced component availability, increases in U.S. tariffs on imports of Roku TV models, future possible changes in U.S. regulations on exports of U.S. technologies or dealings with certain countries or parties, foreign tariffs on U.S. parts or components for Roku TV models that are assembled outside of the U.S., and their control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs, particularly when components are in short supply may be limited. Delays, component shortages, factory shutdowns due to the COVID-19 pandemic and other manufacturing and supply problems could impair the retail distribution of their Roku TV models. A significant interruption in the supply of Roku TV models to retailers and distributors could, in turn, reduce our active accounts and streaming hours. Furthermore, any manufacturing issues affecting the quality of our Roku TV brand partners Roku TV models, could harm our brand and our business. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements and manage our inventory with our contract manufacturers, we could incur additional costs, experience manufacturing delays and lose revenue. We bear supply risk under our contract manufacturing arrangements. Lead times for the materials and components that our contract manufacturers order on our behalf through different component suppliers vary significantly and depend on numerous factors, including the specific supplier, contract terms and market demand for a component at a given time. Lead times for certain key materials and components incorporated into our players or other products are currently lengthy, requiring our contract manufacturers to order materials and components several months in advance. If we overestimate our production requirements, our contract manufacturers may purchase excess components and build excess inventory. If our contract manufacturers, at our request, purchase excess components that are unique to our products or build excess products, we could be required to pay for these excess components or products. In the past, we have agreed to reimburse our contract manufacturers for purchased components that were not used as a result of our decision to discontinue a certain model of player or the use of particular components. If we incur costs to cover excess supply commitments, this would harm our business. Conversely, if we underestimate our player or other product requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate component inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing of our players or other products and result in delays or cancellation of orders from retailers and distributors. In addition, from time to time we have experienced unanticipated increases in demand that resulted in the need to ship players via air freight, which is more expensive than ocean freight, and adversely affected our player gross margin during such periods of high demand, for example, during end-of-year holidays. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements, our business may be harmed. Our players incorporate key components from sole source suppliers and if our contract manufacturers are unable to source these components on a timely basis, due to fabrication capacity issues or other material supply constraints, we will not be able to deliver our players to our retailers and distributors. We depend on sole source suppliers for key components in our players. Our players utilize specific system on chip, or SoC, Wi-Fi silicon products and Wi-Fi front-end modules from various manufacturers, depending on the player, for which we do not have a second source. Although this approach allows us to maximize player performance on lower cost hardware, reduce engineering qualification costs and develop stronger relationships with our strategic suppliers, this also creates supply chain risk. These sole-source suppliers could be constrained by fabrication capacity issues or material supply issues, such as tariffs or other export or import restrictions on U.S. parts or components for finished players that are used in final assembly of their components or on the finished players themselves. There is also the risk that the strategic supplier may stop producing such components, cease operations or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, our competitors or other companies, or become subject to U.S. or foreign sanctions or export control restrictions or penalties. 24 Such suppliers may also face production, shipping, or logistical constraints arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Any such interruption or delay may force us to seek similar components from alternative sources, which may not be available. Switching from a sole-source supplier would require that we redesign our players to accommodate new components and would require us to re-qualify our players with regulatory bodies, such as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which would be costly and time-consuming. Our reliance on sole-source suppliers involves a number of additional risks, including risks related to: supplier capacity constraints; price increases; timely delivery; component quality; and delays in, or the inability to execute on, a supplier roadmap for components and technologies. Any interruption in the supply of sole-source components for our players could adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled player deliveries to our retailers and distributors, result in lost sales and higher expenses and harm our business. Our players and Roku TV models must operate with various offerings, technologies and systems from our content publishers that we do not control. If our streaming devices do not operate effectively with those offerings, technologies and systems, our business may be harmed. The Roku OS is designed for performance using relatively low-cost hardware, which enables us to drive user growth with our players and Roku TV models offered at a low cost to consumers. However, this hardware must be interoperable with all channels and other offerings, technologies and systems from our content publishers, including virtual multi-channel video programming distributors. We have no control over these offerings, technologies and systems beyond our channel certification requirements, and if our players and Roku TV models do not provide our users with a high-quality experience on those offerings on a cost-effective basis or if changes are made to those offerings that are not compatible with our players or Roku TV models, we may be unable to increase active account growth and user engagement, we may be required to increase our hardware costs and our business will be harmed. We plan to continue to introduce new products regularly and we have experienced that it takes time to optimize such products to function well with these offerings, technologies and systems. In addition, many of our largest content publishers have the right to test and certify our new products before we can publish their channels on these devices. The certification processes can be time consuming and introduce third-party dependencies into our product release cycles. If content publishers do not certify new products on a timely basis or require us to make changes in order to obtain certifications, our product release plans may be adversely impacted, or we may not continue to offer certain channels. To continue to grow our active accounts and user engagement, we will need to prioritize development of our streaming devices to work better with new offerings, technologies and systems. If we are unable to maintain consistent operability of our devices that is on parity with or better than other platforms, our business could be harmed. In addition, any future changes to offerings, technologies and systems from our content publishers, such as virtual service operators, may impact the accessibility, speed, functionality, and other performance aspects of our streaming devices. We may not successfully develop streaming devices that operate effectively with these offerings, technologies or systems. If it becomes more difficult for our users to access and use these offerings, technologies or systems, our business could be harmed. Our streaming devices are technically complex and may contain undetected hardware errors or software bugs, which could manifest themselves in ways that could harm our reputation and our business. Our streaming devices and those of our licensees are technically complex and have contained and may in the future contain undetected software bugs or hardware errors. These bugs and errors can manifest themselves in any number of ways in our devices or our streaming platform, including through diminished performance, security vulnerabilities, data quality in logs or interpretation of data, malfunctions or even permanently disabled devices. Some errors in our devices may only be discovered after a device has been shipped and used by users and may in some cases only be detected under certain circumstances or after extended use. We also update the Roku OS and our software on a regular basis, and, despite our quality assurance processes, we could introduce bugs in the process of any such update. The introduction of a serious software bug could result in devices becoming permanently disabled. We offer a limited one-year warranty in the United States and any such defects discovered in our devices after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customer goodwill and users and increased service costs, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We could also face claims for product or information liability, tort or breach of warranty, or other violations of laws or regulations. In addition, our contracts with users contain provisions 25 relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of Roku and our products. In addition, if our insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business could be harmed. Components used in our products may fail as a result of manufacturing, design or other defects over which we have no control and render our devices permanently inoperable. We rely on third-party component suppliers to provide certain functionalities needed for the operation and use of our products. Any errors or defects in such third-party technology could result in errors in our products that could harm our business. If these components have a manufacturing, design or other defect, they can cause our products to fail and render them permanently inoperable. For example, the typical means by which our users connect their home networks to our players is by way of a Wi-Fi access point in the home network router. If the Wi-Fi receiver in our player fails, then our player cannot detect a home networks Wi-Fi access point, and our player will not be able to display or deliver any content to the TV screen. As a result, we may have to replace these players at our sole cost and expense. Should we have a widespread problem of this kind, our reputation in the market could be adversely affected and our replacement of these players would harm our business. If we are unable to obtain necessary or desirable third-party technology licenses, our ability to develop new streaming players or platform enhancements may be impaired. We utilize commercially available off-the-shelf technology in the development of our players and streaming platform. As we continue to introduce new features or improvements to our players and our streaming platform, we may be required to license additional technologies from third parties. These third-party licenses may be unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain necessary third-party licenses, we may be required to obtain substitute technologies with lower quality or performance standards, or at a greater cost, any of which could harm the competitiveness of our players, streaming platform and our business. Risks Related to Operating and Growing Our Business We have incurred operating losses in the past, expect to incur operating losses in the future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We began operations in 2002 and we have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since inception. As of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $332.4 million and for the year ended December 31, 2020 we experienced a net loss of $17.5 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we continue to expand our operations. If our revenue and gross profit do not grow at a greater rate than our operating expenses, we will not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We expect to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation the other risks and uncertainties described herein. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating or legal expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our expenses exceed our revenue, we may never achieve or maintain profitability and our business may be harmed. Our quarterly operating results may be volatile and are difficult to predict, and our stock price may decline if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our revenue, gross profit and other operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and may fail to match our past performance due to a variety of factors, including many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our operating results and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate include: the entrance of new competitors or competitive products or services, whether by established or new companies; our ability to retain and grow our active account base, increase engagement among new and existing users, and monetize our streaming platform; our ability to maintain effective pricing practices, in response to the competitive markets in which we operate or other macroeconomic factors, such as inflation or increased taxes; our revenue mix, which drives gross profit; supply of advertising inventory on our advertising platform and advertiser demand for advertising inventory; 26 seasonal, cyclical or other shifts in revenue from advertising or player sales; the timing of the launch of new or updated products, channels or features; the addition or loss of popular content or channels; the expense and availability of content to license for The Roku Channel; the ability of retailers to anticipate consumer demand; an increase in the manufacturing or component costs of our players or the manufacturing or component costs of our TV brand licensees for Roku TV models; delays in delivery of our players or our partners Roku TV models, or disruptions in our or our licensees supply or distribution chains, including any disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, tariffs, or other trade restrictions or disruptions; and an increase in costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, defending against third-party intellectual property infringement allegations or procuring rights to third-party intellectual property. Our gross margins vary across our devices and platform offerings. Our player segment revenue has a lower gross margin compared to our platform segment revenue derived through our arrangements with advertising, content distribution, billing, and licensing activities. Gross margins on our players vary across player models and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, component costs, player returns and other cost fluctuations. In addition, our gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be adversely impacted as a result of a shift in device, geographic or sales channel mix, component cost increases, price competition, or the introduction of new streaming devices, including those that have higher cost structures with flat or reduced pricing. We have in the past and may in the future strategically reduce our player gross margin in an effort to increase the number of active accounts and grow our gross profit. As a result, our player segment revenue may not increase as rapidly as it has historically, or at all, and, unless we are able to continue to increase our platform revenue and grow the number of active accounts, we may be unable to grow gross profit and our business will be harmed. If a reduction in gross margin does not result in an increase in our active accounts or increase our platform revenue and gross profit, our financial results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. If we have difficulty managing our growth in operating expenses, our business could be harmed. We have experienced significant growth in our research and development, sales and marketing, support services, operations, and general and administrative functions in recent years and expect to continue to expand these activities. Our historical growth has placed, and expected future growth will continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to: manage a larger organization; hire more employees, including engineers with relevant skills and experience; expand internationally; increase our sales and marketing efforts; expand the capacity to manufacture and distribute our players; broaden our customer support capabilities; support a larger number of TV brand and service operators; implement appropriate operational and financial systems; and maintain effective financial disclosure