Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. In addition, you should consider the interrelationship and compounding effects of two or more risks occurring simultaneously. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. You should not interpret our disclosure of any of the following risks to imply that such risks have not already materialized. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our Class A common stock speculative or risky: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry the highly competitive nature of the TV streaming industry that is rapidly evolving; the acceptance and growth of over-the-top advertising and advertising platforms; our ability to further monetize our streaming platform; our ability to attract advertisers and advertising agencies to our demand-side advertising platform; our ability to develop, maintain, and expand relationships with licensed Roku TV partners, manufacturing partners, and service operators; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with important content publishers; popular or new content publishers not publishing their content on our streaming platform; the non-renewal or early termination of our agreements with content publishers; maintaining an adequate supply of quality video ad inventory on our platform and selling the available supply; content publishers electing not to participate in platform features that we develop; irrelevant or unengaging advertising or media and entertainment promotional spending campaigns on our platform; our operation of The Roku Channel; users signing up for offerings and services outside of our platform; the evolution of our industry and the impact of many factors that are outside of our control; our and our licensed Roku TV partners reliance on retail sales channels to sell products; our ability to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty; advertiser or advertising agency delayed payment or failure to pay; maintaining adequate customer support levels; our introduction of new products and services; our and our licensed Roku TV partners reliance on contract manufacturers and limited manufacturing capabilities; our reliance on licensed Roku TV partners operations for the supply of Roku TV models; our ability to forecast manufacturing requirements and manage our supply chain and inventory levels; decreased availability or increased costs for materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products and our licensed Roku TV partners products; our ability to obtain key components from sole source suppliers; interoperability of our products with content publishers and other third parties offerings, technologies, and systems; detecting hardware defects and software errors in our products before they are released to end users; component manufacturing, design, or other defects that may render our products permanently inoperable; our ability to obtain or maintain necessary or desirable third-party technology licenses; Risks Related to Operating and Growing Our Business our history of operating losses; volatility of our quarterly operating results that could cause our stock price to decline; 14 Table o f Contents our ability to manage our growth; our ability to successfully expand our international operations; seasonality of our business and its impact on our revenue and gross profit; attracting and retaining key personnel and managing succession; maintaining systems that can support our growth, business arrangements, and financial rules; our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and investments and integrate acquired businesses; our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding credit facility; our ability to secure funds to meet our financial obligations and support our planned business growth; Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Reliability, and Data Privacy significant disruptions of information technology systems or data security incidents; legal obligations and potential liability or reputational harm related to the protection of personal and confidential information; disruptions in computer systems or other services that result in a degradation of our platform; changes in how network operators manage data that travel across their networks; Risks Related to Intellectual Property intellectual property infringement claims and litigation resulting in significant costs or the loss of important intellectual property rights; failure or inability to protect or enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights; our use of open source software; our agreements to indemnify certain of our partners if our technology is alleged to infringe on third parties intellectual property rights; Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions the impact of supply chain disruptions, inflationary pressures, recessionary fears, the COVID-19 pandemic, natural disasters, geopolitical conflicts, or other natural or man-made catastrophic events on our business; Legal and Regulatory Risks enactment of or changes to government regulation or laws related to our business; changes in U.S. or foreign trade policies, geopolitical conditions, and general economic conditions that impact our business; U.S. or international rules (or the absence of rules) that permit internet access network operators to degrade users internet service speeds or limit internet data consumption by users; liability for content that is distributed through or advertising that is served through our platform; our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting; the impact of changes in accounting principles; compliance with laws and regulations related to the payment of income taxes and collection of indirect taxes; changes to U.S. or foreign taxation laws or regulations; regulatory inquiries, investigations, and proceedings; Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock the dual class structure of our common stock; volatility in the market price of our Class A common stock; potential dilution or a decline in our stock price caused by future sales or issuance of our capital stock or rights to purchase capital stock; a decline in our stock price caused by future sales by existing stockholders; dependency on favorable securities and industry analyst reports; the significant legal, accounting, and other expenses associated with being a publicly traded company; the absence of dividends on our Class A or Class B common stock; anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws; and the limitations resulting from our selection of the Delaware Court of Chancery and the U.S. federal district courts as the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders. 15 Table o f Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The TV streaming industry is highly competitive and many companies, including large technology companies, content owners and aggregators, TV brands, and service operators, are actively focusing on this industry. If we fail to differentiate ourselves and compete successfully with these companies, it will be difficult for us to attract and retain users and our business will be harmed. The TV streaming industry is highly competitive and global. Our success depends in part on attracting users to and retaining users on, and the effective monetization of, our streaming platform. To attract and retain users, we need to be able to respond efficiently to changes in consumer tastes and preferences and to offer our users access to the content they love on terms that they accept. Effective monetization requires us to continue to update the features and functionality of our streaming platform for users, content publishers, and advertisers. We also must effectively support popular sources of streaming content that are available on our platform, such as Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, Netflix, and YouTube. And we must respond rapidly to actual and anticipated market trends in the TV streaming industry. Large technology companies such as Amazon, Apple, and Google offer TV streaming devices that compete with Roku streaming devices. In addition, Google licenses its Android operating system software for integration into smart TVs and service provider set-top boxes, and Amazon licenses its operating system software for integration into smart TVs and sells Amazon-branded smart TVs. These companies have greater financial resources than we do and can subsidize the cost of their streaming devices or licensing arrangements in order to promote their other products and services, which could make it harder for us to acquire new users, retain existing users, and increase streaming hours. These companies could also implement standards or technology that are not compatible with our products or that provide a better streaming experience. These companies also have greater resources to promote their brands through advertising than we do. In addition, many TV brands offer their own TV streaming solutions within their TVs. Other devices, such as game consoles, also incorporate TV streaming functionality. Similarly, some service operators, such as Comcast, offer TV streaming applications and devices as part of their cable service plans and can leverage their existing consumer bases, installation networks, broadband delivery networks, and name recognition to gain traction in the TV streaming market. If consumers of TV streaming content prefer alternative products to Roku streaming devices, we may not be able to achieve our expected growth in active accounts, streaming hours, revenue, gross profit or ARPU. We also compete for streaming hours with mobile streaming applications on smartphones and tablets, and users may prefer to view streaming content on such applications. Increased use of mobile or other platforms for TV streaming could adversely impact the growth of our streaming hours, harm our competitive position, and otherwise harm our business. We expect competition in TV streaming from the large technology companies and service operators described above, as well as new and growing companies, to increase in the future. This increased competition could result in pricing pressure, lower revenue and gross profit, or the failure of Roku streaming devices, our platform or our other products to gain or maintain broad market acceptance. To remain competitive and maintain our position as a leading TV streaming platform, we need to continuously invest in our platform, product development, marketing, service and support, and device distribution infrastructure. In addition, evolving TV standards and unknown future developments may require further investments in the development of Roku streaming devices, our platform and our other products. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investments needed to maintain our competitive position. In addition, most of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than us, which provide them with advantages in developing, marketing, or servicing new products and offerings. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to market demand, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sales, and distribution of their products or their content, and influence market acceptance of their products better than we can. These competitors may also be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and may be able to deliver products and services at a lower cost. Increased competition could reduce our sales volume, revenue, and operating margins, increase our operating costs, harm our competitive position, and otherwise harm our business. To enhance our users experience, we also offer audio products, including Roku Streambars, Roku wireless speakers, and Roku wireless subwoofers, and Roku smart home products, including indoor and outdoor cameras, video doorbells, smart lighting, and smart plugs. As a result, we may face additional competition from makers of TV audio speakers and soundbars and other TV peripheral devices, as well as makers of other smart home products. If these products do not operate as designed or do not enhance the TVs powered by Roku OS or other viewing experiences as we intend, our users overall viewing experience may be diminished, and this may impact the overall demand for our products and our partners Roku TV models. 16 Table o f Contents Our future growth depends on the acceptance and growth of over-the-top (OTT) advertising and OTT advertising platforms. We operate in a highly competitive advertising industry and compete for revenue from advertising with other streaming platforms and services, including social media and other digital platforms, as well as traditional media, such as radio, broadcast, cable and satellite TV, and satellite and internet radio. These competitors offer content and other advertising mediums that may be more attractive to advertisers than our streaming platform. These competitors are often very large and have more advertising experience and financial resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete for advertisers and may result in lower revenue and gross profit from advertising. For example, Netflix and Disney+ recently launched ad-supported tiers in their streaming services, which may further increase competition for streaming advertising revenue. If we are unable to increase our revenue from advertising by, among other things, continuing to improve our platforms capabilities to further optimize and measure advertisers campaigns, increasing our advertising inventory, and expanding our advertising sales team and programmatic capabilities, our business and our growth prospects may be harmed. We may not be able to compete effectively or adapt to any such changes or trends, which would harm our ability to grow our advertising revenue and would harm our business. Many advertisers continue to devote a substantial portion of their advertising budgets to traditional advertising, such as traditional TV, radio, and print, and to advertising through social media and other digital platforms. The future growth of our business depends on the growth of OTT advertising and on advertisers increasing their spending on advertising on our platform. Although traditional TV advertisers have shown growing interest in OTT advertising, we cannot be certain that their interest will continue to increase or that they will not revert to traditional TV advertising or shift their advertising spending to social media and other digital platforms (rather than to us). In addition, if we are unable to compete with social media and other digital platforms to win business from advertisers and agencies who have traditionally advertised on these platforms, such as direct-to-consumer and small or medium-sized businesses, our ability to grow our business may be limited. If advertisers, or their agency relationships, do not perceive meaningful benefits of OTT advertising, the market may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely impact our operating results and our ability to grow our business. Finally, there is political pressure in some countries to limit OTT advertising (including limiting the advertising that may be shown to viewers of childrens content) or impose local content requirements on OTT services, which could pose a threat to our services. We may not be successful in our efforts to further monetize our streaming platform, which may harm our business. Our business model depends on our ability to generate platform revenue from advertisers and content publishers. We generate platform revenue primarily from the sale of digital advertising and related services, and content distribution services (such as subscription and transaction revenue shares, media and entertainment promotional spending, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded channel buttons on remote controls). As such, we are seeking to expand the number of active accounts and increase the number of hours that are streamed across our platform in an effort to create additional platform revenue opportunities. As our user base grows and as we increase the amount of content offered and streamed across our platform, we must effectively monetize our expanding user base and streaming activity. The total number of streaming hours, however, does not correlate with platform revenue on a period-by-period basis, primarily because we do not monetize every hour streamed or every user on our platform. Moreover, streaming hours on our platform are measured whenever a Roku streaming device is streaming content, whether a viewer is actively watching or not. For example, if a player is connected to a TV, and the viewer turns off the TV, steps away, or falls asleep and does not stop or pause the player, then the particular streaming channel may continue to play content for a period of time determined by the streaming channel. We believe that this also occurs across a wide variety of non-Roku streaming devices and other set-top boxes. Since the first quarter of 2020, all Roku devices include a Roku OS feature that is designed to identify when content has been continuously streaming on a channel for an extended period of time without user interaction. This feature periodically prompts the user to confirm that they are still watching the selected channel and closes the channel if the user does not respond affirmatively. Some of our leading channel partners, including Netflix, also have similar features within their channels. Our ability to deliver more relevant advertisements to our users and to increase our platforms value to advertisers and content publishers depends on the collection of user engagement data, which may be restricted or prevented by a number of factors. Users may decide to opt out or restrict our ability to collect viewing data or to provide them with more relevant advertisements. Content publishers may also refuse to allow us to collect data regarding user engagement or refuse to implement mechanisms we request to ensure compliance with our legal obligations or technical requirements. For example, we are not able to fully utilize program level viewing data from many of our most popular channels to improve the relevancy of advertisements provided to our users. 17 Table o f Contents Other channels available on our platform, such as Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV+, Hulu, and YouTube, are focused on increasing user engagement and time spent within their channels by allowing users to purchase additional content and streaming services within their channels; when users purchase these additional services within these channels, we may earn less revenue than when the services are purchased directly from us. If our users spend most of their time within particular channels where we have limited or no ability to place advertisements or leverage user information, or our users opt out from our ability to collect data for use in providing more relevant advertisements, we may not be able to achieve our expected growth in platform revenue or gross profit. Additionally, our distribution agreements with our most popular channels are renegotiated periodically; thus, even if we are currently able to monetize streaming hours within a channel, we may not be able to do so in the future. If we are unable to further monetize our streaming platform, our business may be harmed. Our efforts to monetize our streaming platform through ad-supported content are still developing and may not continue to grow as we expect, and our platform revenue growth has been, and may continue to be, lower than expected due to advertisers significantly curtailing or pausing advertising spending due to inflationary pressures, recessionary fears or other reasons that are out of our control. In addition, advertisers spending commitments, such as those we obtain in connection with annual TV Upfront presentations, are typically not fully binding, and the revenue we receive from such commitments may be less than the initially committed amount. This means that in order to materially increase the monetization of our streaming platform through the sale of video advertising, we will need to attract significantly more advertising dollars to our streaming platform as well as deliver ad-supported content that results in our users streaming significantly more ad-supported content. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in monetizing our streaming platform through the distribution of ad-supported content. If we are unable to attract advertisers or advertising agencies to our OneView ad platform or if we are not successful in running a demand-side advertising platform, our business may be harmed. Through our OneView ad platform, advertisers and advertising agencies can programmatically purchase and manage their OTT, desktop and mobile advertising campaigns. OneView leverages the demand-side platform developed by dataxu, which we acquired in November 2019, and integrates the reach, inventory, and capabilities of our proprietary advertising products and services. The market for programmatic OTT ad buying is an emerging market, and our current and potential advertisers and advertising agencies may not shift to programmatic ad buying from other buying methods as quickly as we expect or at all. If the market for programmatic OTT ad buying deteriorates or develops more slowly than we expect, advertisers and advertising agencies may not use OneView or we may not attract prospective advertisers or advertising agencies to OneView, and our business could be harmed. In addition, if OneView does not have the functionality or services expected by advertisers or advertising agencies, we may not be able to attract their advertising spend to OneView, or our existing customers may not maintain or increase their spend on OneView. Moreover, our ownership of OneView may negatively impact the ability of OneView to purchase advertising on non-Roku platforms. If we fail to adapt to our rapidly changing industry or to our customers evolving needs, advertisers and advertising agencies will not adopt OneView, and our business may be harmed. We also may not be able to compete effectively with more established demand-side platforms or be able to adapt to changes or trends in programmatic OTT advertising, which would harm our ability to grow our advertising revenue and harm our business. Our growth depends in part on our ability to develop, maintain, and expand relationships with our licensed Roku TV partners and manufacturing partners in the United States and international markets and, to a lesser extent, service operators. We have developed, and intend to continue to develop and expand, relationships with TV brand and manufacturing partners. We continue to invest in the growth and expansion of our Roku TV program both in the United States and international markets. In the past few years, the sale of Roku TV models by our licensed Roku TV partners has materially contributed to our active account growth, streaming hours, and platform monetization efforts. This growth has primarily been driven by North America; however, our Roku TV licensing program has been expanded to certain international markets and represents a growing share of new active accounts. We license the Roku OS and our smart TV reference designs to certain licensed Roku TV partners to manufacture Roku TV models. We do not typically receive, nor do we typically expect to receive, license revenue from these arrangements, but we expect to incur expenses in connection with these commercial agreements. The primary economic benefits that we derive from these license arrangements have been and will likely continue to be indirect, primarily from growing our active accounts, increasing streaming hours, and generating content distribution and advertising-related revenue on our platform. If these arrangements do not continue to result in increased active accounts and streaming hours, and if that growth does not in turn lead to successfully monetizing that increased user activity, our business may be harmed. 18 Table o f Contents While we recently announced the launch of a new line of Roku-branded TVs (the Roku Select and Roku Plus Series TVs) that will be designed, made, and sold by us, the loss of a relationship with a licensed Roku TV partner in the near future could harm our results of operations, damage our reputation, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, and result in the loss of revenue. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships with any of these third parties, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, or other impediments to these relationships, our ability to grow or maintain our business could be adversely impacted. We have also developed licensing relationships with certain service operators, primarily in international markets; however, this program has been decreasing in scale in recent years, as we have shifted the focus of our international growth to the sale of Roku streaming devices and expanding our Roku OS licensing program with licensed Roku TV partners. Based on the decreasing scale of our licensing program for service operators, including termination of these relationships, we expect that the number of active accounts generated from this program will continue to decline, which may impact the overall growth rate of our active accounts in international markets. Our licensing arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and complete. Our current and potential partners include TV brands, cable and satellite companies, and telecommunication providers. Under these license arrangements, we generally have limited or no control over the amount and timing of resources these entities dedicate to the relationship. In the past, our licensed Roku TV partners have failed to meet their forecasts and anticipated market launch dates for distributing Roku TV models, and they may fail to meet their forecasts or such launches in the future. If our licensed Roku TV partners or service operator partners fail to meet their forecasts or such launches for distributing licensed streaming devices or choose to deploy competing streaming solutions within their product lines, our business may be harmed. We depend on a small number of content publishers for a majority of our streaming hours, and if we fail to maintain these relationships, our business could be harmed. Historically, a small number of content publishers have accounted for a significant portion of the hours streamed on our platform. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, the top three streaming services represented over 50% of all hours streamed in the period. If, for any reason, we cease distributing channels that have historically streamed a large percentage of the aggregate streaming hours on our platform, our streaming hours, our active accounts, or Roku streaming device sales may be adversely affected, and our business may be harmed. If popular or new content publishers do not publish content on our platform, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users. We must continuously maintain existing relationships and identify and establish new relationships with content publishers to provide popular streaming channels, streaming channel features, and content. In order to remain competitive, we must consistently meet user demand for popular streaming channels, streaming channel features, and content, particularly as we launch new streaming devices, introduce new TVs powered by Roku OS, or enter new markets, including international markets. If we are not successful in helping our content publishers launch and maintain streaming channels and streaming channel features that attract and retain a significant number of users on our streaming platform or if we are not able to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business will be harmed. Our ability to successfully help content publishers maintain and expand their channel offerings on a cost-effective basis largely depends on our ability to: effectively promote and market new and existing streaming channels; minimize launch delays of new and updated streaming channels; and minimize streaming platform downtime and other technical difficulties. In addition, if service operators, including traditional TV providers, refuse to grant our users access to stream certain channels or only make content available on devices they prefer, our ability to offer a broad selection of popular streaming channels or content may be limited. If we fail to help our content publishers maintain and expand their audiences on our platform or their channels are not available on our platform, our business may be harmed. The non-renewal or early termination of agreements with our content publishers may result in the removal of certain channels or channel features from our streaming platform and may harm our active account growth and engagement. We enter into agreements with all our content publishers, which have varying terms and conditions, including expiration dates and rights to terminate under certain circumstances. Our agreements with content publishers generally have terms of one to three years and can be terminated before the end of the term by the content publisher under certain circumstances, including if we materially breach the agreement, become insolvent, enter bankruptcy, commit fraud, or fail to adhere to the content publishers security or other platform certification requirements. 19 Table o f Contents Upon expiration of these agreements, we are required to re-negotiate and renew them in order to continue providing content from these content publishers on our streaming platform. We have in the past been unable, and in the future may not be able, to reach a satisfactory agreement with certain content publishers before our existing agreements have expired. If we are unable to renew such agreements on a timely basis on mutually agreeable terms, or if a content publisher terminates an agreement with us prior to its expiration, we may be required to temporarily or permanently remove certain channels or channel features from our streaming platform. The loss of such channels or channel features from our streaming platform for any period of time may harm our business. More broadly, if we fail to maintain our relationships with the content publishers on terms favorable to us, or at all, or if these content publishers face problems in delivering their content across our platform, we may lose channel partners or users and our business may be harmed. If we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of quality video ad inventory on our platform or effectively sell our available video ad inventory, our business may be harmed. Our business model depends on our ability to grow video ad inventory on our streaming platform and sell it to advertisers. While The Roku Channel has historically served as a valuable source of video ad inventory for us to sell, there is no guarantee that it will continue to do so in the future. If The Roku Channel is unable to secure content that is appealing to our users and advertisers, or is unable to do so on terms that provide a sufficient supply of ad inventory at reasonable cost, our supply of video ad inventory will be negatively impacted. We are also dependent on our ability to monetize video ad inventory within other ad-supported channels on our streaming platform. We seek to obtain the ability to sell such inventory from the content publishers of such channels. We may fail to attract content publishers that generate a sufficient quantity or quality of ad-supported content hours on our streaming platform or fail to obtain access to a sufficient quantity and quality of ad inventory from the publishers of such content. Our access to video ad inventory in ad-supported streaming channels on our platform varies greatly among channels. Accordingly, we may not have access to a significant portion of the video ad inventory on our platform. For certain channels, including YouTubes ad-supported channel, we have no access to video ad inventory at this time, and we may not secure access in the future. Moreover, when existing SVOD services introduce new ad-supported tiers to their streaming services, we have in the past and in the future may not be able to reach agreement on access to video ad inventory on these tiers on mutually agreeable terms, or at all. The amount, quality, and cost of video ad inventory available to us can change at any time. If we are unable to grow and maintain a sufficient supply of quality video ad inventory at reasonable costs to keep up with demand, our business may be harmed. If our content publishers do not participate in new features that we may introduce from time to time, our business may be harmed. As our streaming platform and products evolve, we will continue to introduce new features, which may or may not be attractive to our content publishers or meet their requirements. For example, some content publishers have elected not to participate in our new home screen menu features or have imposed limits on our data gathering for usage within their channels. In addition, our streaming platform utilizes our proprietary Brightscript scripting language in order to allow our content publishers to develop and create channels on our streaming platform. If we introduce new features or utilize a new scripting language in the future, such a change may not comply with certain content publishers certification requirements. In addition, our content publishers may find other languages, such as HTML5, more attractive to develop for and shift their resources to developing their channels on other platforms. If key content publishers do not find our streaming platform simple and attractive to develop channels for, do not value and participate in all of the features and functionality that our streaming platform offers, or determine that our software developer kit or new features of our platform do not meet their certification requirements, our business may be harmed. If the advertising and media and entertainment promotional spending campaigns on our platform are not relevant or not engaging to our users, our growth in active accounts and streaming hours may be adversely impacted. We have made, and are continuing to make, investments to enable advertisers and content publishers to deliver relevant advertising and media and entertainment promotional spending campaigns to our users. Existing and prospective advertisers and content publishers may not be successful in serving ads and media and entertainment promotional spending campaigns that lead to and maintain user engagement. Those ads and campaigns may seem irrelevant, repetitive, or overly targeted and intrusive. We are continuously seeking to balance the objectives of our advertisers and content publishers with our desire to provide an optimal user experience, but we may not be successful in achieving a balance that continues to attract and retain users, advertisers, and content publishers. If the advertising and media and entertainment promotional spending campaigns on our streaming platform are not relevant, overly intrusive or too frequent and impede the use of our platform, our users may stop using our platform, which will harm our business. 20 Table o f Contents We are subject to various risks in connection with our operation of The Roku Channel. We operate The Roku Channel, which offers ad-supported free access for users to a collection of films, television series, live linear television, and other content. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs and expenses in connection with the development, expansion, and operation of The Roku Channel, which we monetize primarily through advertising. For example, we previously acquired content rights, including rights to certain projects in development, from the mobile-first video distribution service known as Quibi, and announced that The Roku Channel would become the home of such content. In addition, we acquired the entities comprising the This Old House business, which own and produce the This Old House and Ask This Old House TV programs and operate related business lines, to further the growth strategy and ad-supported content offerings in The Roku Channel. We also commission original content that we own and distribute on The Roku Channel. If our users do not continue to stream the ad-supported content we make available on The Roku Channel, we will not have the opportunity to monetize The Roku Channel through revenue generated from advertising. In order to attract users to the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel and drive streaming of ad-supported video on The Roku Channel, we must secure rights to stream content that is appealing to our users and advertisers. In part, we do this by directly licensing certain content from content owners, such as television and movie studios. The agreements that we enter into with these content owners have varying terms and provide us with rights to make specific content available through The Roku Channel during certain periods of time. Upon expiration of these agreements, we are required to re-negotiate and renew these agreements with the content owners, or enter into new agreements with other content owners, in order to obtain rights to distribute additional titles or to extend the duration of the rights previously granted. If we are unable to enter into content license agreements on acceptable terms to access content that enables us to attract and retain users of the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel, or if the content we do secure rights to stream is ultimately not appealing to our users and advertisers, usage of The Roku Channel may decline, and our business may be harmed. In addition, following the Quibi and This Old House transactions and the launch of our advertising brand studio, we are producing content for distribution on The Roku Channel and other platforms. We have limited experience producing content, and we may not be successful in doing so in a cost-effective manner that is appealing to our users and advertisers and furthers the growth of The Roku Channel. We also take on risks associated with content production, such as completion and key talent risk. Furthermore, if the advertisements on The Roku Channel are not relevant to our users or such advertisements are overly intrusive and impede our users enjoyment of the available content, our users may not stream content and view advertisements on The Roku Channel, and The Roku Channel may not generate sufficient revenue from advertising to be cost effective for us to operate. In addition, we distribute The Roku Channel on platforms other than our own streaming platform, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting a large number of users or generating significant revenue from advertising through the distribution of The Roku Channel on such other streaming platforms. If our users sign up for offerings and services outside of our platform or through other channels on our platform, our business may be harmed. We earn revenue by acquiring subscribers for certain of our content publishers activated on or through our platform, including Premium Subscriptions on The Roku Channel, which allow our users to pay for content from various content publishers. If users reduce the degree to which they use our platform for these purchases or subscriptions for any reason, and instead increase the degree to which they pay for services directly with content publishers or by other means for which we do not receive attribution, our business may be harmed. In addition, certain channels available on our platform allow users to purchase additional streaming services from within their channels. The revenue we earn from these transactions is not always equivalent to the revenue we earn from sales of such additional services on a stand-alone basis through our platform. If users increase their spending on such in-channel transactions at the expense of stand-alone purchases through our platform, our business may be harmed. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry that will be impacted by many factors that are outside of our control, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. TV streaming is a rapidly evolving industry, making our business and prospects difficult to evaluate. The growth and profitability of this industry and the level of demand and market acceptance for our products and streaming platform are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. We believe that the continued growth of streaming as an entertainment alternative will depend on the availability and growth of cost-effective broadband internet access (including mobile broadband internet access), the quality and reliability of broadband content delivery, broadband service providers ability to control the delivery speed of different content traveling on their networks, the quality and reliability of new devices and technology, the cost for users relative to other sources of content, the quality and breadth of content that is delivered across streaming platforms, and other macroeconomic conditions. Accordingly, our growth and the future evolution of TV streaming as an industry, which is likely to impact our success, is dependent on many factors that are outside of our control. 21 Table o f Contents We and our licensed Roku TV partners depend on retail sales channels to effectively market and sell our respective products, and if we or our partners fail to maintain and expand effective retail sales channels, we or our partners could experience lower product sales. To continue to increase our active accounts, we must maintain and expand retail sales channels for our products and for the Roku products sold by our partners or licensees. The majority of our products and our licensed Roku TV partners products are sold through traditional brick and mortar retailers, such as Best Buy, Target, and Walmart, including their online sales platforms, and online retailers such as Amazon. We also sell certain products directly through our website and internationally through distributors and retailers such as Coppel in Mexico, Magazine Luiza in Brazil, and MediaMarkt in Germany. As we have only recently expanded to certain international markets, we may not have established a strong reputation or relationships with retailers for those markets as compared to our sales channels in the United States or our competitors in international markets. Amazon and Walmart in total accounted for 59% of our devices revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, and 57% for the year ended December 31, 2021. Our retailers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. We have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these retailers or distributors. If one or several retailers or distributors were to discontinue selling our products or our licensed Roku TV partners products, choose not to prominently display those devices in their stores or on their websites, or close or severely limit access to their brick and mortar locations, the volume of our products or our licensed Roku TV partners products sold could decrease, which would harm our business. If any of our existing licensed Roku TV partners choose to work exclusively with, or divert a significant portion of their business with us to, other operating system developers, this may adversely impact our ability to continue to license the Roku OS and our smart TV reference design to TV brands and our ability to continue to grow active accounts and monetize the Roku OS. Traditional retailers have limited shelf and end cap space in their stores and limited promotional budgets, and online retailers have limited prime website product placement space. Competition is intense for these resources, and a competitor with more extensive product lines, stronger brand identity and greater marketing resources, such as Amazon or Google, possesses greater bargaining power with retailers. In addition, one of our online retailers, Amazon, sells its own competitive streaming devices, smart TVs, and smart home devices, is able to market and promote these products more prominently on its website, and could refuse to offer or promote our products on its website. Any reduction in our ability to place and promote our products, or increased competition for available shelf or website placement, could require us to increase our marketing or other expenditures to maintain our product visibility or could result in reduced visibility for our products, which may harm our business. In particular, the availability of product placement during peak retail periods, such as the holiday season, is critical to our revenue growth, and if we are unable to effectively sell our products during these periods, our business would be harmed. If our efforts to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain users, and our business may be harmed. Building and maintaining a strong brand is important to attract and retain users, as potential users have a number of TV streaming choices. Successfully building a brand is a time-consuming and comprehensive endeavor and can be positively and negatively impacted by any number of factors. Certain factors, such as the quality or pricing of our products or our customer service, are within our control. Other factors, such as the quality and reliability of the Roku TV models made by our licensed Roku TV partners and the quality of the content that our content publishers provide, may be out of our control, yet users may nonetheless attribute those factors to us. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and market share more quickly and effectively than we can. Many of our competitors are larger companies and may have greater resources to devote to the promotion of their brands through traditional advertising, digital advertising or website product placement. If we are unable to execute on building a strong brand, it may be difficult to differentiate our business and streaming platform from our competitors in the marketplace, therefore our ability to attract and retain users may be adversely affected and our business may be harmed. Our streaming platform allows our users to choose from a wide variety of channels, representing a variety of content from a wide range of content publishers. Our users can choose and control which channels they download and watch, and they can use certain settings to prevent channels from being downloaded to Roku streaming devices. While we have policies that prohibit the publication of content that is unlawful, incites illegal activities, or violates third-party rights, among other things, we may distribute channels that include controversial content. Controversies related to the content included on certain channels that we distribute have resulted in, and could in the future result in, negative publicity, cause harm to our reputation and brand, or subject us to claims and may harm our business. 22 Table o f Contents We are subject to payment-related risks and, if our advertisers or advertising agencies do not pay or dispute their invoices, our business may be harmed. Many of our contracts with advertising agencies provide that if the advertiser does not pay the agency, the agency is not liable to us, and we must seek payment solely from the advertiser, a type of arrangement called sequential liability. Contracting with these agencies, which in some cases have or may develop higher-risk credit profiles, may subject us to greater credit risk than if we were to contract directly with advertisers. This credit risk may vary depending on the nature of an advertising agencys aggregated advertiser base. In addition, typically, we are contractually required to pay advertising inventory data suppliers within a negotiated period of time, regardless of whether our advertisers or advertising agencies pay us on time, or at all. In addition, we typically experience slow payment cycles by advertising agencies as is common in the advertising industry. While we attempt to balance payment periods with our suppliers and advertisers and advertising agencies, we are not always successful. As a result, we can often face a timing issue with our accounts payable on shorter cycles than our accounts receivables, requiring us to remit payments from our own funds, and accept the risk of credit losses. We may also be involved in disputes with agencies and their advertisers over the operation of our streaming platform, the terms of our agreements or our billings for purchases made by them through our streaming platform or through our demand-side platform. If we are unable to collect or make adjustments to bills, we could incur credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which the write-offs occur. In the future, bad debt may exceed reserves for such contingencies, and our bad debt exposure may increase over time. Any increase in write-offs for bad debt could have a materially negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are not paid by our advertisers or advertising agencies on time or at all, our business may be harmed. The quality of our customer support is important, and if we fail to provide adequate levels of customer support, we could lose users, advertisers, content partners, and licensed Roku TV partners, which could harm our business. Our users depend on our customer support organization to resolve issues relating to our products and our streaming platform. A high level of support is critical for the success of our business. We currently outsource the majority of our customer support operation to a third-party customer support organization which provides support to end users. In addition, we train our licensed Roku TV partners and service operator licensees to provide first-level customer support to users of Roku TV models. If we do not effectively train, update, and manage our third-party customer support organization to assist our users and licensees, and if that support organization does not succeed in helping them quickly resolve issues or provide effective ongoing support, it could adversely affect our ability to monetize our streaming platform, to sell our products to consumers and could harm our reputation with potential new customers and our licensees. We must continue to innovate and develop new and existing products and services to remain competitive, and new products and services expose our business to new risks. We must continually innovate and improve our products and services and develop new products and services to meet changing consumer demands. In particular, we recently introduced Roku Select and Roku Plus Series TVs (a new line of Roku-branded TVs that will be designed, made, and sold by us in 2023) and Roku smart home products (including indoor and outdoor cameras, video doorbells, smart lighting, and smart plugs) and related subscription services. The introduction of a new product or service is a complex task, involving significant expenditures in research and development, promotion, and sales channel development, and can expose our business to new risks. The introduction of new products and services or changes to our existing products and services may result in new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, new litigation or claims, or other complications that could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. For example, we have faced and may continue to face new intellectual property infringement claims related to new products and services we have introduced. In addition, our entrance into entirely new lines of business beyond our historical core business of TV streaming and advertising, such as our launch of Roku smart home products, may change our risk profile and subject us to risks that differ from the risks we face as a result of our TV streaming business. Whether users will broadly adopt our new products or services is not certain. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and competitively priced products and services and add new desirable content and features to our streaming platform. Moreover, we must introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, and we must secure production orders for new products from our contract manufacturers. The development of new products and services is a highly complex process, and while our research and development efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful. The successful development and introduction of new products and services depends on a number of factors, including: the accuracy of our forecasts for market requirements beyond near-term visibility; our ability to anticipate and react to new technologies and evolving consumer trends; 23 Table o f Contents our development, licensing, or acquisition of new technologies; our timely completion of new designs and development; our ability to timely and adequately redesign or resolve design or manufacturing or security issues; our ability to identify and contract with an appropriate manufacturer; the ability of our contract manufacturers to cost-effectively manufacture our new products; the availability of materials and key components used in manufacturing; tariffs, trade, sanctions, and export restrictions by the U.S. or foreign governments, which could impact the pricing, timing and availability of new products and depress consumer demand, limit the ability of our contract manufacturers to obtain key parts, components, software, and technologies, and lead to shortages; the ability of our contract manufacturers to produce quality products and minimize defects, manufacturing mishaps, and shipping delays; and our ability to attract and retain world-class research and development personnel. If any of these or other factors materializes, we may not be able to develop and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our business may be harmed. We do not have our own manufacturing capabilities and primarily depend upon a limited number of contract manufacturers, and our operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with our contract manufacturers. We do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities and rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to build our players, smart home products, and Roku-branded TVs. Our contract manufacturers are vulnerable to, among other issues: capacity constraints; reduced component availability; production, supply chain, or shipping disruptions or delays, including from labor disputes, strikes, mechanical issues, quality control issues, natural disasters, geopolitical conflicts, and public health crises; and the impact of U.S. or foreign tariffs, trade, or sanctions restrictions on components, finished goods, software, other products, or data transfers. As a result, we have limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs, particularly when components are in short supply or when we introduce new products. We also have limited control over our contract manufacturers quality systems and controls, and therefore must rely on them to manufacture our products to our quality and performance standards and specifications. Delays, component shortages, quality issues, and other manufacturing and supply problems have impaired, and could in the future impair, the retail distribution of our products and ultimately our brand. Furthermore, any adverse change in our contract manufacturers financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply our products to our retailers and distributors. We also rely upon our contract manufacturers and other contractors to perform some of the development work on our products. The contract manufacturers or other contractors may be unwilling or unable to successfully complete desired development or fix defects or errors in a timely manner. Delays in development work by contract manufacturers or contractors could delay launch of new or improved products. Our contracts with our contract manufacturers generally may not contain terms that protect us against development, manufacturing, and supply disruptions or risks. For example, such contracts may not obligate our contract manufacturers to supply our products in any specific quantity or at any specific price. If our contract manufacturers are unable to fulfill our production requirements in a timely manner, if their costs increase because of inflationary pressures, U.S. or international tariffs, sanctions, export or import restrictions, or if they decide to terminate their relationship with us, our order fulfillment may be delayed or terminated, and we would have to attempt to identify, select, and qualify acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. Alternative contract manufacturers may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices, to our quality and performance standards on a timely basis, or at all. Any significant interruption in manufacturing at our contract manufacturers for any reason could require us to reduce our supply of products to our retailers and distributors, which in turn would reduce our revenue, or incur higher freight costs than anticipated, which would negatively impact our devices gross margin. 24 Table o f Contents In addition, our contract manufacturers facilities, and the facilities of our contract manufacturers suppliers, are located in various geographic areas that may be subject to political, economic, labor, trade, public health, social, and legal uncertainties, including Taiwan, Vietnam, China, and Brazil, and such uncertainties may harm or disrupt our relationships with these parties or their ability to perform. For example, if the current tensions between Taiwan and China escalate and impact the operations of our contract manufacturers and their Taiwanese suppliers, our supply chain and our business could be adversely affected. We believe that the international location of these facilities increases supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions, tariffs, and trade restrictions on exports or imports. The supply of Roku TV models to the market could be disrupted if our licensed Roku TV partners encounter problems with their internal operations or with their contract manufacturers, assemblers, or component suppliers. Some of our licensed Roku TV partners have internal manufacturing capabilities, while others rely primarily or exclusively upon contract manufacturers to build the Roku TV models that our licensed Roku TV partners sell to retailers. Regardless of whether their manufacturing capabilities are internal or contracted, our licensed Roku TV partners manufacturers may be vulnerable to capacity constraints and reduced component availability; increases in tariffs on imports of Roku TV models; future possible changes in regulations on exports: restrictions, by the United States or otherwise, on dealings with certain countries, companies, or imported inputs; tariffs on parts or components for Roku TV models; and supply chain disruptions and shipping delays. Our licensed Roku TV partners control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs, particularly when components are in short supply, may be limited. For those licensed Roku TV partners with contract manufacturers or suppliers, the problems are exacerbated because the contract manufacturer is a third party, and the licensed Roku TV partner does not have direct visibility into or control over the operations. Delays, component shortages, and other manufacturing and supply problems could impair the manufacture or distribution of Roku TV models. Interruptions in the supply of Roku TV models to retailers and distributors or increases in the pricing of Roku TV models at times have negatively affected, and could adversely affect in the future, the volume of Roku TV models sold at retail, resulting in slower active account and streaming hour growth. Furthermore, any manufacturing, design, or other issues affecting the quality or performance of Roku TV models could harm our brand and our business. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements for our products and manage our inventory with our contract manufacturers, we could incur additional costs, experience manufacturing delays, and lose revenue. We bear risks of excess and insufficient inventories under our contract manufacturing arrangements. For example, our contract manufacturers order materials and components in advance in an effort to meet our projected needs for our products. Lead times for the materials and components that our contract manufacturers order on our behalf through different component suppliers may vary significantly and depend on numerous factors outside of our control, including the specific supplier, contract terms, shipping and freight, market demand for a component at a given time, and trade and government relations. Lead times for certain key materials and components incorporated into our products are currently lengthy and may require our contract manufacturers to order materials and components many months in advance. If we overestimate our production requirements, our contract manufacturers may purchase excess components and build excess inventory. If our contract manufacturers, at our request, purchase excess components or build excess products, we could be required to pay for these excess components or products. In the past, we have agreed to reimburse our contract manufacturers for purchased components that were not used as a result of our decision to discontinue a certain model or the use of particular components. If we incur costs to cover excess supply commitments, our business may be harmed. Conversely, if we underestimate our product requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate material or component inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing of our products, result in insufficient quantities available to meet demand, and result in delays or cancellation of orders from retailers and distributors. In addition, from time to time we have experienced unanticipated increases in demand that resulted in the need to ship our products via air freight, which is more expensive than ocean freight, and adversely affected our devices gross margin during such periods of high demand (for example, during end-of-year holidays). If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements, our business may be harmed. Our products incorporate key components from sole source suppliers, and if our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products to our retailers and distributors. We depend on sole source suppliers for key components in our products. For example, each of our streaming players and TVs powered by Roku OS may utilize a specific system on chip (or SoC), Wi-Fi silicon product, and Wi-Fi front-end module, each of which may be available from only a single manufacturer and for which we do not have a second source. 25 Table o f Contents Although this approach allows us to maximize product performance on lower cost hardware, reduce engineering development and qualification costs, and develop stronger relationships with our strategic suppliers, this also creates supply chain risk. These sole-source suppliers could be constrained by fabrication capacity issues or material supply issues, such as U.S. or foreign tariffs, war or other government or trade relations issues, other export or import restrictions on parts or components for finished products that are used in final assembly of their components (or on the finished products themselves), or shortages of key components. There is also a risk that the strategic supplier may stop producing such components, cease operations, be acquired by or enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors or other companies, put contract manufacturers on allocation because of semiconductor shortages, or become subject to U.S. or foreign sanctions or export control restrictions or penalties. Such suppliers have experienced, and may in the future experience, production, shipping, or logistical constraints arising from macroeconomic conditions or other circumstances, such as inflationary pressures, geopolitical conflict, and supply chain disruptions. Such interruptions and delays have in the past and may in the future force us to seek similar components from alternative sources, which may not always be available, and which may cause us to delay product introductions and incur air freight expense. Switching from a sole-source supplier may require that we adapt our software, and redesign our products to accommodate new chips and components, and may require us to re-qualify our products with regulatory bodies, such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which would be costly and time-consuming. Our reliance on sole-source suppliers involves a number of additional risks, including risks related to: supplier capacity constraints; price increases, including increases related to inflationary pressures; timely delivery; component quality; and delays in, or the inability to execute on, a supplier roadmap for components and technologies. Any interruption in the supply of sole-source components for our products could adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our retailers and distributors, result in lost sales and higher expenses, and harm our business. If our products do not operate effectively with various offerings, technologies, and systems from content publishers and other third parties that we do not control, our business may be harmed. The Roku OS is designed to perform using relatively low-cost hardware, which enables us to drive user growth via Roku streaming devices offered at a low cost to consumers. However, this hardware must be interoperable with all channels and other offerings, technologies, and systems from our content publishers, including virtual multi-channel video programming distributors, and other third parties. We have no control over these offerings, technologies, and systems beyond our channel certification requirements, and if Roku streaming devices do not provide our users with a high-quality experience on those offerings on a cost-effective basis or if changes are made to those offerings that are not compatible with Roku streaming devices, we may be unable to increase active account growth and user engagement or may be required to increase our hardware costs, and our business will be harmed. We plan to continue to introduce new products regularly, including, for example, our recently announced Roku-branded TVs, and we have experienced that it takes time to optimize such products to function well with these offerings, technologies and systems. In addition, many of our largest content publishers have the right to test and certify our new products before we can publish their channels. The certification processes can be time consuming and introduce third-party dependencies into our product release cycles. If content publishers do not certify new products on a timely basis or require us to make changes in order to obtain certifications, our product release plans may be adversely impacted, we may not be able to offer certain products to all licensed Roku TV partners or we may not continue to offer certain channels. To continue to grow our active accounts and user engagement, we will need to prioritize development of Roku streaming devices to work better with new offerings, technologies, and systems, including our recently announced smart home products. If we are unable to maintain consistent operability of Roku streaming devices that is on parity with or better than other platforms, our business could be harmed. In addition, any future changes to offerings, technologies, and systems from our content publishers, such as virtual service operators, may impact the accessibility, speed, functionality, and other performance aspects of Roku streaming devices. We may not successfully develop Roku streaming devices that operate effectively with these offerings, technologies, or systems. If it becomes more difficult for our users to access and use these offerings, technologies, or systems, our business could be harmed. 26 Table o f Contents Our products are complex and may contain hardware defects and software errors, which could manifest themselves in ways that could harm our reputation and our business. Our products and the products of our licensed Roku TV partners are complex and have contained and may in the future contain hardware defects or software errors. These defects and errors can manifest themselves in any number of ways in our products or our streaming platform, including through diminished performance, security vulnerabilities, data loss or poor quality, device malfunctions, or even permanently disabled products. Some errors may only be discovered after a product has been shipped and used by users and may in some cases only be detected under certain circumstances or after extended use. We update our software on a regular basis, and, despite our quality assurance processes, we could introduce software errors in the process of any such update. The introduction of a serious software error could result in products becoming permanently disabled. We offer a limited warranty for our products, in accordance with applicable law, however, providing software updates, product support, and other activities could cause us to be responsible for issues with products for an extended period of time. Any defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customer goodwill and users, and increased service costs, any of which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We could also face claims for product or information liability, tort or breach of warranty, or other violations of laws or regulations. In addition, our contracts with our end users contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of Roku and our products. In addition, if our insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business could be harmed. Components used in our products may fail as a result of manufacturing, design, or other defects that were unknown to us or over which we have no control and may render our products permanently inoperable. We rely on third-party component suppliers to provide certain functionalities needed for the operation and use of our products. Any errors or defects in such third-party technology could result in errors or defects in our products that could harm our business. If these components have a manufacturing, design, or other defect, they could cause our products to fail and could render them permanently inoperable. For example, the typical means by which our users connect their home networks to our players is by way of a Wi-Fi access point in the home network router. If the Wi-Fi receiver or transmitter in a player fails and cannot detect a home networks Wi-Fi access point, the player will not be able to display or deliver any content to the TV screen. As a result, we may have to recall and replace defective products, which could be at a considerable cost and expense. Should we have a widespread problem of this kind, our reputation in the market could also be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain or maintain necessary or desirable third-party technology licenses, our ability to develop new products or streaming platform enhancements may be impaired. We utilize or enable certain industry standard and other commercially available technology in our products and streaming platform that is licensed by third parties. As we continue to introduce new features or improvements to our products and on our streaming platform, we may be required to license additional technologies from third parties. These third-party licenses may be unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain necessary third-party licenses, we may be required to obtain substitute technologies with lower quality or performance standards, or at a greater cost, any of which could harm the competitiveness of our products, streaming platform, and our business. Risks Related to Operating and Growing Our Business We have incurred operating losses in the past, and although we have achieved profitability in certain prior quarters, we expect to incur operating losses in the future and may not be able to achieve profitability again in the near term or at all. We have incurred operating losses in the past, and we may incur operating losses in the future. Although we achieved profitability in certain prior quarters, we may not be able to achieve profitability again in the near term or at all. As of December 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $588.0 million. We generally expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we continue to expand our operations and invest in growth and new areas, although we expect operating expense year-over-year growth to significantly decline over the course of 2023. If our revenue and gross profit do not grow at a greater rate than our operating expenses, we may not be able to achieve profitability again. We expect our profitability to fluctuate in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation the other risks and uncertainties described herein. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating or legal expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other factors that may result in losses in future periods. 27 Table o f Contents Our quarterly operating results may be volatile and are difficult to predict, and our stock price may decline if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our revenue, gross profit, and other operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and may fail to match our past performance due to a variety of factors, including many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our operating results and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate include: the entrance of new competitors or competitive products or services, whether by established or new companies; our ability to retain and grow our active account base, increase engagement among new and existing users, and monetize our streaming platform; our ability to maintain effective pricing practices in response to the competitive markets in which we operate or other macroeconomic factors, such as increased taxes or inflationary pressures, such as those the market is currently experiencing, and our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; our revenue mix, which drives gross profit; supply of advertising inventory on our advertising platform and advertiser demand for advertising inventory; seasonal, cyclical, or other shifts in revenue from advertising or product sales; the timing of the launch of new or updated products, channels, or features; the addition or loss of popular content or channels; the expense and availability of content to license or produce for The Roku Channel; the ability of retailers to anticipate consumer demand; an increase in the manufacturing or component costs of our products or partner-branded products; delays in delivery of our products or partner-branded products, or disruptions in our or our partners supply or distribution chains; and an increase in costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, defending against third-party intellectual property infringement allegations, or procuring rights to third-party intellectual property. Our gross margins vary across our devices and platform offerings. Our devices segment (which generates revenue from the sale of streaming players, audio products, smart home products, and related accessories, and licensing arrangements with service operators and licensed Roku TV brand partners) has lower gross margins compared to our platform segment (which generates revenue from the sale of digital advertising and related services including the demand-side platform and content distribution services such as subscription and transaction revenue shares, media and entertainment promotional spending, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded channel buttons on remote controls). Gross margins on our streaming players, audio products, and smart home products vary across models and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, component costs, device returns, and other cost fluctuations. In addition, our gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be adversely impacted as a result of a shift in device, geographic, or sales channel mix, component cost increases, price competition, or the introduction of new products, including those that have higher cost structures with flat or reduced pricing. We have in the past and may in the future strategically reduce our devices gross margin in an effort to increase the number of active accounts and grow our gross profit. As a result, our devices revenue may not increase as rapidly as it has historically, or at all, and, unless we are able to continue to increase our platform revenue and grow the number of active accounts, we may be unable to grow gross profit and our business will be harmed. For example, in the past, global supply chain disruptions have resulted in shipping delays, increased shipping costs, component shortages, and increases in component prices, which negatively affected our devices gross margin. If a reduction in gross margin does not result in an increase in our active accounts or an increase in our platform revenue and gross profit, our financial results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. In addition, our platform segment has experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, lower gross margins than we anticipate. If our platform gross margins are lower than we anticipate, our financial results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. If we have difficulty managing our growth in operating expenses, our business could be harmed. We have experienced significant growth in our research and development, sales and marketing, support services, operations, and general and administrative functions in recent years and expect to continue to expand these activities. Our historical growth has placed, and expected future growth will continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to: manage a larger organization; hire more employees, including engineers with relevant skills and experience; 28 Table o f Contents expand internationally; increase our sales and marketing efforts; expand the capacity to manufacture and distribute our products; broaden our customer support capabilities; expand our product offerings; support our licensed Roku TV partners and service operators; expand and improve the content offering on our platform; implement appropriate operational and financial systems; and maintain effective financial disclosure