Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Key Performance Metrics and Non-GAAP Measure, elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional detail. Demand-side platform (DSP): Programmatic advertising technology that allows advertisers and advertising agencies to buy advertising inventory across multiple platforms and publishers through one interface. FAST: Free, ad-supported linear streaming TV, which does not include on-demand content. Licensed Roku TV partners: TV original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that license the Roku TV OS and leverage our smart TV reference designs to build TVs. Linear TV: A TV format that provides programming at specifically scheduled times. Premium Subscriptions: Subscription-based streaming services from content partners (e.g., Paramount) offered through The Roku Channel. Roku-branded TVs: TVs powered by the Roku TV OS that are designed, made, and sold by Roku. Roku-branded TVs include the Roku Select, Roku Plus, and Roku Pro Series TVs. Roku Experience: The user experience on the Roku platform, representing all the features that Roku builds and operates to engage, delight, and help our viewers easily find great entertainment. Roku Home Screen: The first screen the viewer sees when they begin streaming with a Roku streaming device. The viewer is also returned to the Roku Home Screen by pressing the home button on the Roku remote or when exiting apps. Roku Home Screen Menu: The left-hand navigation bar on the Roku Home Screen. Roku Originals: Original content programming created by Roku. Roku TV OS (or Roku platform): Roku operating system that is purpose built for TV and powers Roku streaming devices. Roku TV models: TVs powered by the Roku TV OS that are made and sold by our licensed Roku TV partners. Supply-side platform (SSP): Programmatic advertising technology that enables publishers to sell their advertising inventory to multiple demand sources. Streaming: The distribution of video, music, or other media content via the internet. Streaming device: Any device that enables streaming. Roku streaming devices include Roku streaming players, Roku TV models, and Roku-branded TVs. Streaming Hours: The aggregate amount of time streaming devices stream content on Rokus streaming platform in a given period. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Key Performance Metrics and Non-GAAP Measure, elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional detail. Streaming Households (previously Active Accounts): The number of distinct user accounts that have streamed content on our platform within the last 30 days of the period. Previously we referred to this measure as Active Accounts. While we changed this term to better reflect the nature of our business, we calculate it using the same methodology that we used to calculate Active Accounts. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Key Performance Metrics and Non-GAAP Measure, elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional detail. Beginning with our Q1 2025 earnings results, we will no longer report quarterly updates on Streaming Households and, by extension, ARPU. Streaming platform: The technology that delivers the viewer experience and streaming apps (e.g., The Roku Channel and Netflix) over an internet connection to a users TV. Streaming players: A device that connects to a TV via an HDMI connection to enable streaming to the TV (such as the Roku Express, Roku Express 4K, Roku Streaming Stick 4K, Roku Ultra, Roku Streambar, and Roku Streambar Pro). Smart TV: A television that is connected to the internet through an operating system (e.g., the Roku TV OS). Subscription Video on Demand (SVOD): Streaming content that is available on demand, requires a paid subscription, and can be ad-supported or ad-free. TV streaming: The act of streaming content over the internet on a TV. The Roku Channel: Rokus owned and operated streaming service. The Roku Channel aggregates three types of contentAVOD, FAST, and Premium Subscriptionswithin The Roku Channel app and through viewing experiences integrated throughout the Roku platform (e.g., Live TV on the Roku Home Screen Menu). ii Table of Contents NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), about us and our industry that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical facts in this Annual Report, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial condition, business strategy, and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, continue, could, design, developing, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, potentially, predict, project, should, will, would, target, or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. We caution you that the foregoing may not encompass all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including risks described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report, regarding, among other things: our financial performance, including our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, profitability, and key performance metrics; the impact of macroeconomic conditions, uncertainties, and geopolitical conflicts on our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we and our advertisers, content partners, licensed Roku TV partners, other device licensees, manufacturers, suppliers, retailers, and viewers operate; our ability to attract and retain viewers and increase Streaming Hours; our ability to attract and retain advertisers to purchase advertising on our streaming platform; our ability to attract and retain TV brands and manufacturing partners to license and deploy our technology; our ability to produce or acquire rights to distribute popular content on our streaming platform on favorable terms, or at all, including the renewals of our existing agreements with content partners; changes in TV viewing habits and the growth of TV streaming; the growth of our relevant markets, including the growth in advertising spend on TV streaming platforms, and our ability to successfully grow our business in those markets; our ability to adapt to changing market conditions and technological developments; our ability to develop and launch new products and provide ancillary services and support; our ability to integrate acquired businesses, products, and technologies; our ability to expand our products and services into adjacent markets, scale our operations in these markets, and do so profitably over time; our ability to compete effectively with existing competitors and new market entrants; our ability to successfully manage domestic and international expansion; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to address potential and actual cybersecurity incidents and system failures involving our products, systems and operations; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all; our ability to manage the selling prices of our products to increase Streaming Households; and our ability to comply with laws and regulations that currently apply or may become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally, including compliance with privacy and data protection regulations. Other sections of this Annual Report may include additional factors that could harm our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ from those contained in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Annual Report or to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. You should read this Annual Report, and the documents referenced in and filed as exhibits to this Annual Report, with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance, and achievements may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Investors and others should note that we may announce material business and financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (roku.com/investor), our blog (roku.com/blog), U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, webcasts, press releases, and conference calls. We use these mediums to communicate with investors and the general public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. It is possible that the information that we make available may be deemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information that we post on our investor relations website. Roku, the Roku logo, and other trade names, trademarks, or service marks of Roku appearing in this report are the property of Roku. Trade names, trademarks, and service marks of other companies appearing in this report are the property of their respective holders. Information contained on or accessible through the websites listed above is not incorporated by reference nor otherwise included in this Annual Report, and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. iii Table of Contents PART I Item 1: Business Overview Roku, Inc. (Roku, the Company, we, or us) is the leading TV streaming platform in the United States, Canada, and Mexico by hours streamed. We pioneered streaming to the TV and believe that all TV will be streamed. The shift of the TV ecosystem to streaming continues and is expanding TVs capabilities for viewers, content partners, advertisers, and other industry participants. Nearly every major media company not only has a streaming service, but has also expanded beyond pure subscription streaming models to ad-supported streaming options. Advertisers use TV streaming to reach viewers who are increasingly unreachable on traditional TV, while also benefiting from the digital advertising capabilities that TV streaming platforms can deliver. Our Mission Our mission is to be the global TV streaming platform that connects and benefits the entire TV ecosystem of viewers, content partners, and advertisers. Through our TV streaming platform, we connect viewers to the entertainment they love; enable content partners to build, engage, and monetize large audiences; and provide advertisers with unique capabilities to reach viewers. Our Strategy and Business Model The foundation of our platform is the Roku TV OS, which is purpose built for TVs and powers Roku streaming devices. The Roku TV OS is designed to run on low-cost hardware, which enables Roku streaming devices to be sold to consumers at competitive prices. The Roku TV OS connects viewers to our streaming platform via a broadband network, giving them access to a wide selection of content through an experience that is both delightful and easy to use. We provide periodic updates via the Roku TV OS to continuously deliver an exceptional streaming experience. We dedicate significant resources to build, maintain, and advance the Roku TV OS; to provide an industry-leading streaming platform for our viewers, content partners, and advertisers; to obtain content for our streaming platform that attracts viewers, including our own original programming (Roku Originals); and to extend Rokus leadership as the global shift to TV streaming continues. Our three-phased business modelgrow scale, grow engagement, and grow monetizationdrives our mission. We leverage our position as the TV streaming platform to help our viewers find content across the streaming universe, while simultaneously growing monetization. Our three key initiatives to grow platform revenue are to innovate the Roku Home Screen to expand monetization, grow advertising demand through deeper third-party platform integrations, and grow Roku-billed subscriptions. Devices Segment: Providing Easy Access to TV Streaming We make TV streaming accessible to consumers through a broad lineup of devices, at a variety of competitive price points. Our devices segment generates revenue from the sale of Roku streaming players, Roku-branded TVs, smart home products and services, audio products, and related accessories. Roku TV models are TVs made and sold by our Roku TV partners, which are TV original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that license the Roku TV OS and leverage our smart TV reference designs. We have driven strong Streaming Household growth through this Roku TV licensing program, which we launched more than 10 years ago. In 2023, we launched Roku-branded TVs, which are designed, made, and sold by us. This award-winning lineup includes the Roku Select and Roku Plus Series TVs, and the Roku Pro Series TVs, which are our higher-performing TVs that we launched in spring 2024. Roku-branded TVs complement our successful Roku TV licensing program. We believe our Roku-branded TVs will enable us to further grow our leadership position in TV streaming and compete in the higher-end range of performance TVs. Roku-branded TVs will also help us innovate more quickly in all aspects of hardware and software and test directly with viewers, improving the product and viewer experience and strengthening the entire Roku ecosystem. Roku streaming players enable users to easily turn (nearly) any TV into a smart TV. We launch new streaming player models periodically with a focus on offering high performance at an affordable price. In September 2024, we launched our most powerful streaming player to date: the 2024 Roku Ultra. This premium streaming player comes bundled with the Voice Remote Pro (2nd edition), our most advanced remote. Roku streaming devices are broadly distributed at popular national retailers such as Amazon, Best Buy, Costco, CVS, The Home Depot, Lowes, Sams Club, Target, Walgreens, and Walmart. 1 Table of Contents Audio is an important part of the TV streaming experience, and we offer Roku-branded wireless speakers and subwoofers that seamlessly connect to TVs powered by the Roku TV OS. Additionally, Roku TV Ready allows certified soundbars to quickly and easily connect to Roku TVs, enabling the use of one remote and having all the sound settings uploaded to the TV. This is another example of Rokus innovative TV ecosystem. The Roku ecosystem extends beyond TV streaming and audio to smart home devices that include cameras, video doorbells, lights, plugs, a home monitoring system, and our Roku Smart Home mobile application for iOS and Android. Similar to our TV streaming business model, we build scale by selling Roku Smart Home devices and then monetize through smart home services. We offer subscription plans for our cameras, video doorbells, and home monitoring system. Through our streaming devices and the Roku platform, we provide viewers tremendous choice, value, and an exceptional viewer experience. In 2024, we added 9.8 million net Streaming Households, ending the year with 89.8 million Streaming Households. Platform Segment: Growing and Monetizing User Engagement The Roku Experience We call the user experience on the Roku platform the Roku Experience. It represents all the features that Roku builds and operates to engage, delight, and help our viewers find great entertainment. A key competitive advantage that continues to drive our success is the combination of our significant scale and the Roku Experience, which begins with the Roku Home Screen. The Roku Home Screen is the first thing our viewers see when they start streaming, and from this position, we can help the viewer decide what to watch every day across the vast range of options available to them on our streaming platform. As an example, sports is an important entertainment category for viewers and advertisers, and Roku is focused on benefiting from its ongoing shift to streaming. Available from the Roku Home Screen Menu, the Roku Sports Zone organizes sports programming in a single location, and its features are integrated throughout the Roku Experience. We partnered with the NFL to launch our first league-branded zone in 2023, and in 2024 we added zones for the NBA and MLB. We also have zones for college football, college basketball, and womens sports, among others. Each zone helps viewers find live and upcoming games and related content such as previews, highlights, commentary, and documentaries. In addition to sports, we build viewer experiences around popular entertainment genres like home improvement and food and tentpole events like the Olympics and the Oscars. The Roku Channel Another top engagement driver on our streaming platform is The Roku Channel, our owned and operated streaming app. The Roku Channel aggregates a broad variety of entertainment into a unified streaming experience, through three distinct types of content: AVOD (ad-supported video on demand): Viewers can stream a broad variety of 80,000+ movies and TV shows, including Roku Originals, for free. Live TV: Viewers have access to watch 500+ FAST (free, ad-supported linear streaming TV) channels in genres ranging from news to sports to entertainment to creator content. Premium Subscriptions: Viewers can easily sign up, view, and manage subscriptions to dozens of SVOD apps, such as Max and Paramount+, with a single, monthly bill. The foundation of our content strategy for The Roku Channel is third-party licensed content and, to a smaller extent, our original programming, Roku Originals. Our content spend is intended to be commensurate with the growth trajectory of The Roku Channel and with the broader macroeconomic environment. The Roku Channel is available on devices powered by the Roku TV OS in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Mexico. In the United States, it is also available via the Roku mobile app, online at TheRokuChannel.Roku.com, and on Amazon Fire TVs, Samsung TVs, Google TV, and other Android TV OS devices. Owning and operating both The Roku Channel and our streaming platform creates unique value, making us a leader in free content, positioning us to be a valuable partner to content partners, and providing a large source of advertising inventory. The Roku Channel benefits from its integration throughout the Roku Experience, which has features such as Live TV, Sports, What to Watch, and more that can surface content to our viewers directly. The Roku Channel is a core strategic asset in our monetization efforts that simultaneously benefits viewers, content partners, and advertisers, while generating platform revenue. Streaming Hours We grew Streaming Hours on the overall Roku platform from 106.0 billion hours in 2023 to 127.1 billion hours in 2024 through increasing the distribution of Roku streaming devices, increasing our Streaming Households, and continuing to enhance the Roku Experience. We are always seeking new ways to innovate to expand the role the Roku Experience can play in helping viewers find what to watch, which simultaneously benefits our content partners and advertisers while creating monetization opportunities for Roku. 2 Table of Contents Platform Revenue Our TV streaming platform enables content partners and advertisers to reach audiences that are increasingly unreachable on traditional TV. Each user on our streaming platform creates multiple revenue opportunities for Roku through activities such as navigating through the Roku Experience, watching ad-supported content, or signing up for subscription services. We generate platform revenue primarily from the sale of digital advertising (including direct and programmatic video advertising, ads integrated into our UI, and related services), as well as streaming services distribution (including subscription and transaction revenue shares, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded app buttons on remote controls). We empower viewers to choose how much they want to spend on content by offering them a broad array of free, ad-supported, subscription, and transactional viewing options. Our direct relationship with customers provides us with insights about their behavior on our streaming platform, including certain content viewers search for, the apps viewers install and watch, and the types of content that viewers purchase or subscribe to on our streaming platform. This first party data enables us to develop actionable insights such as content recommendations to improve our viewers experience. In 2024, we added a new personalized content row powered by AI to the Roku Home Screen. Unlike suggestions from streaming services, which are restricted to their libraries, our recommendations include content from streaming apps across our platform. This content row is designed to recommend TV shows and movies to viewers while simultaneously driving growth for Roku in areas such as Streaming Hours, SVOD signups, and ad reach. Our significant scale, ability to reach highly engaged viewers, tools that enable seamless signups, and marketing/discovery features make us an attractive platform to content partners. They can also reach and engage those viewers who do not use traditional TV services. As more viewers shift to TV streaming, content partners that publish apps on our platform are able to reach these streaming audiences at scale and engage viewers directly. We make it easy for content partners to distribute and monetize their streaming content through three primary business models: SVOD, which includes subscriptions to individual video on demand apps and so-called virtual multichannel video programming distribution (vMVPD) services; ad-supported video, which includes AVOD apps with on demand content that do not charge a subscription fee to users, as well as FAST; and transaction video on demand (TVOD), which includes apps that offer a la carte content purchases or rentals. Our billing service assists content partners with their billing needs, such as managing payment methods, subscriptions, and customer invoices. This service also allows content partners to enable a frictionless signup within their app, and we believe this key benefit simplifies user subscription signups and drives purchase and retention for our content partners. Content partners also have access to our media and entertainment tools to help them attract, engage, and retain viewers by investing in promoting their content on our streaming platform. Content partners can use a variety of ad types, such as native display ads on the Roku Home Screen to drive app downloads, promote an apps content, or direct traffic to their apps in order to drive subscriptions or movie and TV show consumption. We also derive revenue from the sale of branded app buttons on Roku remote controls that are intended to increase incremental usage of an app by enabling viewers to launch straight into the app from any screen. Our analytics and reporting assist content partners with analyzing viewership trends and metrics for specific titles, and we also can help content partners target new audiences that are more likely to subscribe to their services. Just as ads evolved decades ago when TV replaced radio as the primary entertainment medium, ads on TV streaming offer new and more performant opportunities than traditional TV. Advertisers are able to leverage the combination of our significant scale, our direct relationship with viewers, and our innovative ad products and technology to reach consumers with relevant messages. We offer advertisers a unique and effective set of tools to reach viewers and measure both the effectiveness of the ads served and their return on investment. We sell both in-stream video ads and display ads integrated into our user interface (UI). Our standard in-stream video ads are the same as the video advertising seen on traditional TV, but they are made more performant with data and technology. Additionally, we are able to offer a broader array of ad experiences than standard video ads, such as the ability to takeover an entire ad break, ads related to a specific Roku Original, and ads that appear when the viewer pauses content. The display ads we offer are integrated into the Roku Experience and are only possible because we are the streaming platform. These differentiated ads fall into three main categories of native ads, native destinations, and action ads. Native ads are high-visibility placements within our iconic Roku City screensaver, wallpaper-branded themes on the Roku Home Screen or The Roku Channel, spotlight ads (placed directly below the Roku Home Screen Menu), or marquee ads (placed directly to the right of the app tiles on the Roku Home Screen Menu) which can be either static or video. Native destinations include sponsorships of a playlist, zone (e.g., the Roku Sports Zone), fan experience (e.g., the premiere of a new TV show season), or a pass that provides viewers with a free movie/TV show. Action ads can be combined with other ad types and create an easy way for viewers to use their remote to subscribe to a service, purchase an item, or receive more information (e.g., OK-to-Text, OK-to-Checkout). Many of our action ads are in partnership with companies such as Walmart, Shopify, and Instacart that connect their products with viewers and provide enhanced targeting and closed-loop measurement. 3 Table of Contents Roku enables advertisers to measure TV streaming ad performance throughout the Roku Experience. Our measurement framework is built on a foundation of verified identity, consisting of direct relationships with viewers. We can combine this asset with the advertisers preferred data sources to provide an expansive measurement toolkit that includes reach measurement, brand resonance, and sales attribution, among others. We also have partnerships with companies such as iSpot.TV that allow advertisers to buy, optimize, and measure their campaigns, whether directly through Roku or through another buying platform. Business Growth Investment in Growth We believe that our future performance will depend on the success of the investments in our business that we have made, and will continue to make, to further differentiate our streaming platform and increase the value we deliver to our viewers, content partners, and advertisers. We must regularly update and enhance our streaming platform to meet evolving viewer behavior and provide a best-in-class content delivery and advertising platform. We must provide content partners with best-in-class publishing tools and actionable audience insights. We must continue to innovate and invest in our advertising capabilities and technology so that we attract and encourage incremental advertising spend on our streaming platform. We aim to balance our commitment to growing Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow with our investments to further expand our scale, engagement, and monetization. Advertising Innovation We continue to innovate our advertising offerings. On the Roku Home Screen, we recently enhanced our marquee ads from static display to video. This new video capability has attracted diverse brands and verticals such as tech, financial services, quick-service restaurants, retail, consumer packaged goods, and auto. This is part of our ongoing effort to diversify display ads on the Roku Home Screen beyond media and entertainment advertisers. We are working to offer video in the marquee ads to more brands, while continuing to deliver a delightful user experience. As part of our efforts to grow advertising demand, we are making it easier for advertisers to execute campaigns programmatically by expanding and deepening our relationships with third-party platforms, including demand-side platforms (DSPs), supply-side platforms (SSPs), retail media networks, measurement, and other strategic partners. The Trade Desk (TTD) represents our deepest integration to date with a DSP. Additionally, Roku has adopted Unified ID 2.0 (UID2), an identity solution developed by TTD, that allows advertisers to deliver more personalized ad experiences across Rokus inventory and devices at scale. We expect we will continue to integrate with third-party DSPs to expand our ability to serve multiple price points, and in doing so, we expect to drive incremental revenue over time. We have also expanded our ad offering to better serve small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs). Roku Ads Manager, launched in September 2024, is our self-service connected TV advertising solution, providing performance features like advanced targeting, conversion optimization and measurement, and shoppable ad formats. This solution builds on our growing list of ad offerings that provide advertisers with more choices with regard to how they buy Roku Media whether through direct IO (insertion order), a preferred DSP partner, or self-service. This allows us to serve a diverse array of advertisers across verticals and business sizes, from SMBs to enterprise companies. International Markets The shift from traditional TV to TV streaming is a global phenomenon, as it offers viewers better choice and greater control over their entertainment. We believe that the value our business delivers to viewers, content partners, and advertisers is as compelling in international markets as it is in the United States. Today Roku streaming devices are available in 15+ countries. We are the leading TV streaming platform in the United States, Canada, and Mexico by hours streamed. Internationally, we continue to grow our footprint and deepen our presence in key markets. In Latin America, we announced Roku TV models with Multi in Brazil; Kalley in Colombia; RCA in Chile; and Sharp, Caixun, and Hyundai in Peru. In the United Kingdom, we announced new Roku TV models with CHiQ, JVC, Veltek, and Logik and launched Roku TV models with Westinghouse. In international markets, we plan to continue to focus on building scale first, increasing engagement, and ultimately driving monetization. We are successfully growing The Roku Channel audience internationally. The Roku Channel is available on devices powered by the Roku TV OS in the United Kingdom, Canada, and Mexico. Mexico remains the channels largest market outside of the United States by Streaming Households and Streaming Hours. With strong scale and engagement, we are working to grow monetization in Mexico. Sales and Marketing We engage in a wide variety of sales and marketing activities to continuously grow scale, engagement, and monetization and dedicate significant resources to this area. Our sales and marketing activities are primarily focused on building and expanding relationships with content partners, advertisers, TV brands, and retailers, and driving sales of our products and our licensed Roku TV partners products to consumers through retail distribution channels. 4 Table of Contents We have dedicated business development teams that develop and maintain relationships to promote and build awareness of the features and advantages of our streaming platform among content partners, advertisers, and TV brands. Our data science team supports our sales and marketing efforts by analyzing data on our streaming platform to increase effectiveness for our content partners and advertisers as well as for our consumer marketing campaigns. Our relationship with content partners is typically client-direct. Through our dedicated content partner relationship management team, we enter into agreements with content partners to distribute their apps on our streaming platform, or license their content for The Roku Channel, or both. As part of our distribution agreements with AVOD apps, we typically secure direct access to a portion of the content partners video advertising inventory for our monetization, and our sales efforts are differentiated and complementary to that of our content partners. Whereas our content partners typically feature their brand and content in their sale, we focus on delivering a large streaming audience across many apps and via other Roku-branded experiences such as the Roku Home Screen at once using our own data. We sell advertising to a wide range of advertisers helping them reach their goals across numerous key performance indicators. We are developing relationships with more third-party ad-buying platforms (e.g., retail media networks, DSPs, SSPs, and other strategic partners) to reach marketers buying programmatic advertising on such platforms and to create more demand opportunities for our advertising inventory. Our ad sales teams and products are organized into groups that specialize in the unique needs of each area: (i) agency holding companies and Fortune 500 brands, (ii) independent agency and mid-market clients, (iii) content partners and entertainment brands, (iv) performance and direct-to-consumer brands, and (v) international markets. We work with our licensed Roku TV partners to assist in all phases of the development of Roku TV models, including planning, manufacturing, and marketing. In the United States, the majority of our products and our licensed Roku TV partners products are sold through traditional brick and mortar retailers, such as Best Buy, Target, and Walmart, including their online sales platforms, and online retailers such as Amazon, and to a lesser extent our website (excluding Roku TV models). We also sell products internationally through distributors and to retailers. Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, and Target collectively accounted for 81% of our devices revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 and 76% of our devices revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023. We support retailers with an experienced sales management team and work closely with these retailers to assist with marketing and product mix forecasting. We intend to continue to invest significant resources in our sales and marketing efforts. Seasonality We have historically seen seasonality in our business related to advertising and device sales. Our revenue and gross profit are traditionally strongest in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and represent a higher percentage of the total net revenue for such fiscal year due to higher consumer purchases and increased advertising during holiday seasons. Furthermore, in preparation for the fourth quarter holiday season, we recognize significant discounts in the average selling prices of our streaming device sales through retailers in an effort to grow our Streaming Households, which typically reduce our devices gross margin or results in a devices gross loss in the fourth quarter. Research and Development Our research and development model relies on a combination of in-house staff and outsourced development and manufacturing partners to cost-effectively improve and enhance our platform, and to develop new TVs, players, audio products, smart home devices, features, and functionality. We work closely with content partners, advertisers, and licensed Roku TV partners to understand their current and future needs. We have designed a product development process that seeks to take input from our partners into account when making decisions about our future product and service offerings. In addition, we solicit user feedback in the development of new features and enhancements to our platform. We intend to continue to invest significantly in research and development to bring new or improved products and services to market. Manufacturing We outsource the manufacturing of our products to our contract manufacturers, original design manufacturers, and other contractors and vendors. All of our products are manufactured in China, Southeast Asia, Brazil, and Mexico. Our contracts do not obligate our partners to supply products to us in any specific quantity or at any specific price. Our manufacturers procure components and assemble our products to demand forecasts we establish based upon historical trends and analysis from our sales, operations, and product management functions. The manufacturers ship our products to our third-party warehouses, from where we ship our products directly to retailers, wholesale distributors, and consumers. Government Regulation Our business and our products and platform are subject to numerous U.S. federal, U.S. state, and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. These laws and regulations include general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specific to providers of internet-delivered streaming services and internet-connected devices. 5 Table of Contents For example, in both the United States and abroad, the regulatory framework for privacy and data security issues is rapidly evolving. U.S. federal and state consumer protection regulators generally exercise oversight of consumer protections, often bringing enforcement actions for unfair acts or deceptive practices related to privacy and security or other consumer protection matters. An increasing number of states have passed, or are considering, legislation to govern consumer privacy or consumer protection online. Likewise, foreign jurisdictions in which we operate impose different, and sometimes more stringent, consumer and privacy protections, compared to the United States. Consumer privacy and consumer protection laws, and regulators interpretations of these laws, may become more diverse and restrictive over time, increasing the challenges and costs associated with complying with these laws in all jurisdictions. Governments in both the U.S. and other jurisdictions also have adopted, or are considering adoption, of laws and regulations intended to protect minors privacy and otherwise protect minors from perceived harms online. Privacy and other laws also may limit the ability of advertisers to fully utilize our platform, which could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, the internet is a vital component of our business and is subject to a variety of laws and regulations in jurisdictions throughout the world. We historically have relied on the openness and accessibility of the internet to conduct our business, and government regulations that impede the preservation of the open internet could harm our business. Regulators in the United States and abroad continue to evaluate policy changes that could affect the openness of the internet. Our business also is subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as U.S. and foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate and the countries in which our contract manufacturers, component suppliers, and other business partners are located. For example, the threat, implementation, or modification of new import restrictions in the U.S., as well as any retaliatory measures adopted by affected U.S. trade partners, could prove disruptive to the business environment in which we operate. Finally, our content business is subject to a wide range of government regulations that may vary by jurisdiction. Some nations highly regulate media, including TV streaming. Others have (or may consider) regulations that mandate certain local content quotas or production requirements, for cultural preservation or other reasons. Because our business depends on the creation and production of content, and on the availability of third-party content, delivered over the internet, increased regulation of TV streaming or changes in laws or regulations governing internet transmission of content could adversely affect our business and the attractiveness of our platform. Additionally, these kinds of regulations may make operating in certain jurisdictions more expensive or restrictive. New laws and regulations, individually or in the aggregate, could increase our cost of doing business, impact our competitive position, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are substantial and are likely to increase in the future. Compliance with existing or future laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to internet and online services, data privacy and security, consumer protection, global trade, environmental protection, employee health and safety, and taxes, could have an adverse impact on our business in subsequent periods. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may be subject to significant liabilities and other penalties as well as harm to our reputation. For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business and associated risks, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, elsewhere in this Annual Report. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 1,500 issued patents and 600 pending applications in the United States and foreign countries. We also license technology from third parties when we believe it will facilitate our product offerings or business. For information about the intellectual property risks applicable to our business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, elsewhere in this Annual Report. Competition The TV streaming industry is highly competitive and, as it continues to evolve, we will continue to face strong competition in every aspect of our business. We compete with much larger companies which have resources and brand recognition that pose significant competitive challenges. In the face of this competition, we believe our success depends on building scale by growing our user base, growing engagement by increasing the hours of content streamed through our platform, and growing the monetization of the activities that viewers engage in through our platform. Our competitors include: companies that offer TV streaming devices that compete with Roku streaming devices and companies that license their operating systems for integration into smart TVs and other streaming products; TV brands that offer their own TV streaming solutions within their TVs as well as other devices such as game consoles, DVD players, Blu-ray players, and set-top boxes that leverage their own operating systems; 6 Table of Contents streaming applications that enable users to stream content on phones, tablets, and laptop computers; companies that produce and aggregate TV streaming content with the goal of attracting wide audiences; companies that offer advertisers the opportunity to reach viewers on other content and advertising mediums, including on other ad-supported streaming services and social media applications; companies that offer users other sources for news and entertainment, including broadcast and cable television networks, newspapers and magazines, social networks, and video games; companies that offer products that compete with our audio products or our smart home products and services; and companies that operate in the same locations as our offices or offer remote work positions that may be better able to attract and retain top talent in engineering, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, and other organizations. We also compete with other entertainment providers, including other TV streaming companies and content publishers, in seeking high quality content to license for our platform and for talent and programming concepts for original content projects. We also compete with these same publishers in seeking to sell advertising to support the distribution of streaming content. A number of leading content publishers have launched ad-supported subscription tiers and FAST channels, which offer consumers access to content either for free or for a lower subscription fee. As the TV streaming market continues to develop, we may become subject to additional competition as we introduce or develop new products and services, as our existing products and services evolve, or as other companies introduce competing products and services. Human Capital Management We believe our success depends on our culture and our ability to attract and retain our employees. As of December 31, 2024, we employed approximately 3,340 full-time employees located in 15 countries. Only our employees in Brazil are represented by a labor union with respect to their employment. The majority of our employees have adopted a hybrid work schedule (consisting of both in-person work and working from home). We want our employees to be proud to work at Roku. Our entrepreneurial, execution-focused culture emphasizes recruiting talented individuals, encouraging teamwork, and expecting our employees to perform at a high level. We also emphasize integrity, transparency, and honesty in our internal and external conduct of business. All employees are required to comply fully with our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, which sets forth our values, business culture, and practices. Across Roku, teams are expected to communicate clearly, in real time. Because our employees are trusted and encouraged to make decisions, our leadership communicates plans, milestones, and strategic context broadly, and our employees are trusted to maintain the confidentiality of such information. Our employees are encouraged to leverage our broad talent base for diverse points of view when making decisions. As we grow our business, our goal is to ensure that Roku continues to be a great place to work and thrive. We are committed to fostering an inclusive workplace to spark innovation, strengthen teamwork, equip us to build exceptional products, and drive us to deliver the best TV streaming content. We believe our employees should feel respected, valued, and empowered to contribute, collaborate, and thrive. Our Inclusion Strategy team partners across Roku to implement coordinated programs that advance inclusion, supports our employee resource groups, and collaborates with our Talent Acquisition team to expand our talent community and share our employer brand story. In addition, as a global TV streaming platform, we seek to delight our consumers through inclusive content, services, and partnerships that enrich the Roku Experience for our audiences everywhere. Our Inclusion Strategy and Roku Media teams partner to elevate storytelling that authentically represents and resonates with audiences from different backgrounds. We seek to make purposeful investments in developing future talent across our industry through our Social Impact program. Our employees partner with nonprofits to share their expertise and provide young people with valuable industry insights and hands-on experiences. We also collaborate with external organizations to connect a broad range of talent with real-world opportunities in media and entertainment. Our Learning and Talent Development team provides our employees with the training and development needed to support our strategic priorities and growth. Our employee development programs begin with a comprehensive new hire onboarding experience covering our culture, business, and the resources needed to increase our new hires speed to productivity. In addition to required trainings, we offer employees a suite of highly encouraged offerings covering topics such as high-performance feedback, career development, change management, and communication skills. Managers are provided with training on expectations for managers and have access to a 1:1 leadership coaching program to support new and newly promoted leaders in managing and leading effectively. In addition, all employees have access to on-demand technical and non-technical skill development through LinkedIn Learning. We intend to continue to review, refresh, purchase, and custom-build additional training materials to support our global employees performance and development needs. 7 Table of Contents Our total compensation program is designed to attract, retain, and reward talented professionals. As a result, we endeavor to pay competitive total compensation that is guided by market rates and tailored to account for the specific needs and responsibilities of a particular position as well as the unique qualifications of the individual employee. In determining each employees total compensation opportunity, we consider what that employee would be paid by another employer, what we would have to pay to replace that employee if the employee leaves Roku, and the amount we would pay to retain that employee. Generally, we pay employees total compensation that is comprised of salary and equity awards rather than offering specific benefits or perks that might be valued differently by different employees. We generally do not pay cash bonuses (other than to employees eligible for sales commissions) or have performance-based equity awards because our employees are expected to work at the highest level. We recognize that our employees are most likely to thrive when they have the resources to meet their needs and the time and support to succeed in their professional and personal lives. In support of this, we offer a variety of benefits and wellness offerings to our employees around the world. Available Information Our website address is www.roku.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (roku.com/investor), our blog (roku.com/blog), SEC filings, webcasts, press releases, and conference calls. We use these mediums to communicate with investors and the general public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. It is possible that the information we make available may bedeemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our investor relations website. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding companies (including Roku) that file electronically with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through the websites listed above is not incorporated by reference nor otherwise included in this Annual Report, and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 8 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves significant risks, some of which are described below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all the other information in this Annual Report, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, key performance metrics, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. In addition, you should consider the interrelationship and compounding effects of two or more risks occurring simultaneously. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, key performance metrics, and future prospects. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. You should not interpret our disclosure of any of the following risks to imply that such risks have not already materialized. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our Class A common stock speculative or risky: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry the highly competitive nature of the TV streaming industry that is rapidly evolving; our ability to successfully grow revenues from advertising on our platform; maintaining an adequate supply of quality video advertising inventory on our platform and effectively selling the available supply; irrelevant or unengaging advertising campaigns on our streaming platform; our ability to successfully utilize programmatic advertising technology; advertiser or advertising agency delayed payment or failure to pay; our ability to further monetize our streaming platform; our ability to successfully operate and monetize The Roku Channel; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with important content partners; popular or new content publishers not publishing their content on our streaming platform; the non-renewal or early termination of our agreements with content partners; content partners electing not to participate in platform features that we develop; users signing up for offerings and services outside of our platform; our ability to develop, maintain, and expand relationships with licensed Roku TV partners and manufacturing partners; our and our licensed Roku TV partners ability to develop, maintain, and expand relationships with important retail sales channels that we and they rely on to sell our streaming devices and other products; our ability to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty; our and our licensed Roku TV partners reliance on contract manufacturers and limited manufacturing capabilities; our reliance on licensed Roku TV partners operations for the supply of Roku TV models; our ability to accurately forecast manufacturing requirements and manage our supply chain and inventory levels; decreased availability or increased costs for materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products and our licensed Roku TV partners products; our ability to obtain key components from sole source suppliers; interoperability of our products with content partners and other third parties offerings, technologies, and systems; detecting hardware defects and software errors in our products before they are released to end users; component manufacturing, design, or other defects that may render our products permanently inoperable; our ability to obtain or maintain necessary or desirable licenses, certifications, or approvals related to our use or support of third-party technology, intellectual property, or services; our introduction of new products and services; our use of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies in some of our products and services; maintaining adequate customer support levels; Risks Related to Operating and Growing Our Business our history of operating losses; 9 Table of Contents volatility of our quarterly operating results that could cause our stock price to decline; our ability to manage our growth; our ability to successfully expand our international operations; seasonality and other potential fluctuations in our business and their impact on our revenue and gross profit; attracting and retaining key personnel and managing succession; maintaining systems that can support our growth, business arrangements, and financial rules; our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and investments and integrate acquired businesses; our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding credit facility; our ability to secure funds to meet our financial obligations and support our planned business growth; adverse developments affecting financial institutions, including bank failures; the impact of macroeconomic conditions, natural disasters, geopolitical conflicts, or other natural or man-made catastrophic events on our business; Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Reliability, and Data Privacy data security incidents, including cybersecurity attacks, or other significant disruptions of our information technology systems that could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability; legal obligations and potential liability or reputational harm related to our collection, processing, disclosure, and storage of personal information; disruptions in information technology systems or other services that result in a degradation of our platform; changes in how network operators manage data that travel across their networks; Risks Related to Intellectual Property intellectual property infringement claims and litigation resulting in significant costs or the loss of important intellectual property rights; failure or inability to protect or enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights; our use of open-source software; our agreements to indemnify certain of our partners if our technology is alleged to infringe on third parties intellectual property rights; Legal and Regulatory Risks lawsuits and other legal proceedings, disputes, claims, and government inquiries and investigations; enactment of or changes to government regulation or laws related to our business; changes in U.S. or foreign trade policies, geopolitical conditions, and general economic conditions that impact our business; U.S. or international rules (or the absence of rules) that permit internet access network operators to degrade users internet service speeds or limit internet data consumption by users; liability for content that is distributed through or advertising that is served through our platform; our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting; the impact of changes in accounting principles; compliance with laws and regulations related to the payment of income taxes and collection of indirect taxes; changes to U.S. or foreign taxation laws or regulations; Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock the dual class structure of our common stock; volatility in the market price of our Class A common stock; potential dilution or a decline in our stock price caused by future sales or issuance of our capital stock or rights to purchase capital stock; a decline in our stock price caused by future sales by existing stockholders; dependency on favorable securities and industry analyst reports; the significant legal, accounting, and other expenses associated with being a publicly traded company; the absence of dividends on our common stock; anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws; and the limitations resulting from our selection of the Delaware Court of Chancery and the U.S. federal district courts as the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we fail to differentiate our streaming platform and compete successfully with our competitors, it will be difficult for us to attract and retain users and our business will be adversely impacted. The TV streaming industryincluding the sale of TV streaming devices as well as the sale of advertising on TV streaming platformsis highly competitive and global. Our success depends in part on user acquisition and retention and the effective monetization of our streaming platform. To attract and retain users, we must respond efficiently to changes in user tastes and preferences and offer our users access to the content they demand on terms that they accept. Effective monetization requires us to continue to update the features and functionality of our streaming platform for users, content partners, and advertisers. We also must effectively support popular sources of streaming content that are available on our platform, such as Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, Hulu, Max, Netflix, and YouTube. And we must respond rapidly to actual and anticipated market trends in the TV streaming industry. Large companies such as Amazon, Apple, and Google offer TV streaming devices that compete with Roku streaming devices and those of our licensed Roku TV partners and the Roku TV OS. Google licenses its Android operating system software for integration into smart TVs, including those of certain of our existing TV partners, and service provider set-top boxes, and Amazon licenses its operating system software for integration into smart TVs and sells Amazon-branded smart TVs. We may also face increased competition from Walmart (which makes and sells Onn. branded streaming products, including co-branded Roku TV models), in light of Walmarts recent acquisition of Vizio (which makes and sells smart TVs with a proprietary operating system). These companies have greater financial resources than we do and can subsidize the cost of their streaming devices or licensing arrangements to promote their other products and services, which could make it harder for us to acquire new users, retain existing users, increase Streaming Hours, and monetize our streaming platform. These competitors could also implement standards or technology that are not compatible with our products or that provide a better streaming experience and have greater resources to more aggressively promote their brands through advertising than we do. In addition, we compete for Streaming Hours with many TV brands, including certain of our existing TV partners, that offer their own TV streaming solutions within their TVs, mobile streaming applications on smartphones and tablets, and other devices and platforms, such as game consoles with TV streaming functionality. Similarly, some service operators, such as Comcast and Charter Communications (and their joint venture, Xumo, LLC), offer TV streaming applications and devices as part of their cable service plans and can leverage their existing user bases, installation networks, broadband delivery networks, and name recognition to gain traction in TV streaming. If viewers of TV streaming content prefer alternative products to Roku streaming devices, we may not be able to achieve our expected growth in platform revenue, gross profit, and our key performance metrics. We expect continued competition in TV streaming, which could result in pricing pressure, lower revenue and gross profit, declines in our key performance metrics, or the failure of Roku streaming devices, our streaming platform, or our other products to gain or maintain broad market acceptance. To remain competitive and maintain our position as a leading TV streaming platform, we need to continuously invest in our platform, product development, marketing, service and support, and device distribution infrastructure. In addition, evolving TV standards and unknown future developments may require further investments in the development of Roku streaming devices, our streaming platform, and our other products. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investments needed to maintain our competitive position. In addition, many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than us, which provide them with advantages in developing, marketing, or servicing new products and offerings. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to market demand, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sales, and distribution of their products or their content, and influence market acceptance of their products better than we can. These competitors may also be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and may be able to deliver products and services at a lower cost. Sustained competition could reduce our sales volume, revenue, and operating margins, increase our operating costs, harm our competitive position, and otherwise harm our business. To enhance our users experience, we also offer Roku-branded smart home products and services, and audio products, including wireless speakers and subwoofers. As a result, we face additional competition from other brands of smart home and audio products. If our smart home and audio products do not operate as designed or do not enhance the Roku Experience as we intend, our users overall viewing experience may be diminished, which may impact the overall demand for our products and our partners Roku TV models. Our competitors offer content and other advertising mediums that may be more attractive to advertisers than our streaming platform. We operate in a highly competitive advertising industry and compete for revenue from advertising with other streaming platforms and services, social media platforms, and other digital platforms, as well as traditional media, such as radio, broadcast, cable and satellite TV, and satellite and internet radio. These competitors offer content and other advertising mediums that may be more attractive to advertisers than our streaming platform. These competitors are often very large and have more advertising experience and financial resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete for advertisers and may result in lower revenue and gross profit from advertising. Many major 11 Table of Contents SVOD services, including Netflix, Disney+, and Amazon Prime Video, now have ad-supported SVOD tiers, which has further increased competition for streaming TV advertising revenue. These services, as well as other services such as YouTube and services that have FAST channels (such as Tubi and Pluto), sell (either through direct sales or programmatically through third parties) advertising inventory in their ad-supported content that is distributed on our streaming platform. Our business and growth prospects may be harmed if we are unable to increase our revenue from advertising by, among other things, continuing to improve our streaming platforms capabilities to further optimize and measure advertisers campaigns; continuing to increase our streaming platforms reach; increasing, differentiating, and selling our advertising inventory, including video advertising inventory we sell in The Roku Channel, video advertising inventory that we acquire through our streaming services distribution agreements, and display ads included throughout the Roku Experience; innovating our ad product offerings; and maintaining a strong advertising sales team and programmatic capabilities. See also If we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of quality video advertising inventory on our streaming platform or generate sufficient demand to effectively sell our available video advertising inventory, our business may be harmed. If advertisers continue to devote a substantial portion of their advertising budgets to advertising in traditional media or on other digital platforms rather than on advertising on our streaming platform, the future growth of our business may be negatively impacted. Many advertisers continue to devote a substantial portion of their advertising budgets to advertising in traditional media or on other digital platforms, such as traditional TV, radio, print publications, and social media. The future growth of our business depends on the growth of advertising on TV streaming platforms and on advertisers increasing their spending on advertising on our TV streaming platform. Although traditional TV advertisers have shown growing interest in advertising on TV streaming platforms, we cannot be certain that their interest will continue to increase or that they will not revert to traditional TV advertising or shift their advertising spending to social media and other digital platforms. In addition, if we are unable to compete with social media and other digital platforms to win business from advertisers and advertising agencies who have traditionally advertised on these platforms, such as direct-to-consumer and small or medium-sized businesses, our ability to grow our business may be limited. If advertisers, or their agency relationships, do not perceive meaningful benefits of advertising on our TV streaming platform, the market may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely impact our operating results and our ability to grow our business. Finally, there is political or regulatory pressure in some countries to limit streaming TV advertising (including limiting the advertising that may be associated with childrens content) or impose local content requirements on streaming TV services, which could pose a threat to our operating results and our ability to grow our business. If we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of quality video advertising inventory on our streaming platform or generate sufficient demand to effectively sell our available video advertising inventory, our business may be harmed. Our business model depends on our ability to grow video advertising inventory on our streaming platform and sell it to advertisers. While The Roku Channel has historically served as a valuable source of video advertising inventory for us to sell, there is no guarantee that it will continue to do so in the future. If The Roku Channel is unable to secure content that is appealing to our users and advertisers, or is unable to do so on terms that provide a sufficient supply of advertising inventory at reasonable cost, our supply of video advertising inventory will be negatively impacted. We are also dependent on our ability to monetize video advertising inventory within other ad-supported apps on our streaming platform and seek to sell such inventory from the content partners of such apps. We may fail to attract content partners that generate a sufficient quantity or quality of ad-supported content hours on our streaming platform or fail to obtain access to a sufficient supply of such advertising inventory from the publishers. Our access to video advertising inventory in ad-supported streaming apps on our streaming platform varies greatly among apps and the amount, quality, and cost of video advertising inventory available to us can change at any time. Accordingly, we may not have access to a significant portion of the video advertising inventory on our streaming platform. For certain apps, including YouTubes ad-supported app, we have no access to video advertising inventory at this time, and we may not secure access in the future. Moreover, when existing SVOD services introduce new ad-supported tiers to their streaming services, we have in the past been unable, and in the future may be unable, to obtain access to video advertising inventory on these tiers on mutually agreeable terms, or at all. If we cannot grow, maintain, and generate sufficient demand for an adequate supply of quality video advertising inventory at reasonable costs to keep up with demand or sell such advertising inventory at our desired price, our business may be harmed. If we are unable to effectively sell our available video advertising inventory, our business may be harmed. If the advertising campaigns that run on our streaming platform decrease or are not relevant or not engaging to our users, our business may be adversely impacted. We have made, and are continuing to make, investments to engage with more advertisers and content partners, and enable them to deliver more relevant advertising campaigns to our viewers. However, a small number of content partners historically have accounted for a significant portion of the spending on ads integrated into our UI, and consolidation among content partners has in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in decreased spending on ads integrated into our UI. If our content partners decrease spending on ads integrated into our UI, our financial condition and operating results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. 12 Table of Contents In addition, existing and prospective advertisers may not be successful in serving advertising campaigns that lead to and maintain viewer engagement. Those ads and campaigns may seem irrelevant, repetitive, or overly targeted and intrusive. For example, viewers may dislike the content and frequency of advertising that appears on the Roku Home Screen. We are continuously seeking to balance the objectives of our advertisers with our desire to provide an optimal viewer experience, but we may not be successful in achieving a balance that continues to attract and retain viewers, advertisers, and content partners. If the advertising campaigns run on our streaming platform are not relevant, are overly intrusive or too frequent, or are an impediment to the use of our platform, our viewers may stop using our platform, resulting in a reduction of our user base and Streaming Hours, which will harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We are subject to various risks in connection with programmatic advertising. The market for programmatic streaming TV ad buying is growing, and advertisers and advertising agencies can programmatically purchase and manage their streaming TV, desktop, and mobile advertising campaigns both off and on the Roku platform through third-party demand sources (such as third-party DSPs and SSPs) and through our media buying channels. If our current and potential advertising partners do not continue to shift to programmatic ad buying from other buying methods, or if we are unable to expand our programmatic demand by maintaining and developing third-party demand relationships in a way that is competitive with other advertising platforms, our business could be harmed. In addition, if DSPs or SSPs do not have the functionality or services expected by advertisers or advertising agencies, they may take their advertising spend to a non-Roku platform. We also may not be able to adapt to changes or trends in programmatic streaming TV advertising, which would harm our ability to grow our advertising revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, the programmatic advertising ecosystem is large, distributed, and complex, requiring us to integrate with several key third-party advertising partners. Our compliance with applicable laws and regulations therefore may depend in part on these partners commitment to handling user data with the care that we require or expect of them. Because integration of our respective systems is complex and rapidly evolving, we and our partners may be susceptible to breaches, failures, and other errors (whether inadvertent or intentional). We expect to encounter more of these challenges and issues as the number of partners we integrate with increases. We are subject to credit and payment-related risks if our advertisers, advertising agencies, or programmatic partners do not pay or dispute their invoices, which could harm our business. Many of our contracts with advertising agencies provide that if the advertiser does not pay the agency, the agency is not liable to us, and we must seek payment solely from the advertiser, a type of arrangement called sequential liability. Contracting with these agencies, which in some cases have or may develop higher-risk credit profiles, may subject us to greater credit risk than if we were to contract directly with advertisers. This credit risk may vary depending on the nature of an advertising agencys aggregated advertiser base. In addition, typically, we are contractually required to pay advertising inventory data suppliers within a negotiated period of time, regardless of whether our advertisers or advertising agencies pay us on time, or at all. Further, we typically experience slow payment cycles by advertising agencies as is common in the advertising industry. While we attempt to balance payment periods with our suppliers and advertisers and advertising agencies, we are not always successful. As a result, we can often face a timing issue with our accounts payable on shorter cycles than our accounts receivables, requiring us to remit payments from our own funds, and accept the risk of credit losses. We may also be involved in disputes with agencies, their advertisers, or our programmatic partners over the operation of our streaming platform, the terms of our agreements, or our billings for purchases made by them through our streaming platform, our DSP, or other programmatic partners. If we are unable to collect or make adjustments to bills, we could incur credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which the write-offs occur. In the future, bad debt may exceed reserves for such contingencies, and our bad debt exposure may increase over time. Any increase in write-offs for bad debt could have a materially negative effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Though we have not experienced significant credit losses to date, if we are not paid by our advertisers or advertising agencies on time or at all, our business may be harmed. We may not be successful in our efforts to further monetize our expanding user base and streaming activity as we increase the amount of content offered and streamed across our platform, which may harm our business. Our business model depends on our ability to generate platform revenue from advertisers and content partners through ad-supported content. We generate platform revenue primarily from the sale of digital advertising (including direct and programmatic video advertising, ads integrated into our UI, and related services) and streaming services distribution (including subscription and transaction revenue shares, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded app buttons on remote controls). As such, we are seeking to expand our user base and increase Streaming Hours in an effort to create additional platform revenue opportunities. As our user base grows and as we increase the amount of content offered and streamed across our platform, we must effectively monetize our expanding user base and streaming activity. The total number of Streaming Hours does not correlate with platform revenue on a period-by-period basis, primarily because we do not monetize every hour streamed or every user on our platform. Moreover, Streaming Hours on our platform are measured whenever a Roku streaming device is streaming content, whether a viewer is actively watching or not. For example, if our streaming player is connected to a TV, and the viewer turns off the TV, steps 13 Table of Contents away, or falls asleep without stopping or pausing the player, then a particular streaming app may continue to play content for a period of time determined by the streaming app. Roku TV OSs Are you still watching? feature, which prompts users to confirm they are still watching, does not resolve this lack of correlation. Our ability to deliver advertisements relevant to our users and to increase our streaming platforms value to advertisers and content partners depends on the collection of user engagement data, and the degree to which our users consent to, opt out of, or limit the collection or use of data for advertisements, including as a result of product changes and controls that we have implemented or may implement in the future related to new applicable laws, regulations, industry standards, regulatory actions, or litigation that impact our ability to use data for advertising purposes. Content partners may also refuse to allow us to collect data regarding user engagement or refuse to implement mechanisms we request to ensure compliance with our legal obligations or technical requirements. For example, we are not able to fully utilize program level viewing data from many of our most popular apps to improve the relevancy of advertisements provided to our users. Other apps available on our streaming platform, such as Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV+, Hulu, and YouTube, are focused on increasing user engagement and time spent within their apps by allowing users to purchase additional content and streaming services within their apps. When users purchase these products and services, we may earn less revenue than when such products and services are purchased directly from us. Additionally, if our users spend most of their time within particular apps where we have limited or no ability to place advertisements or leverage user information, or our users opt out from our ability to collect data for use in providing more relevant advertisements, we may not be able to achieve our expected growth in platform revenue, gross profit, or certain key performance metrics. Additionally, our distribution agreements with our most popular apps are renegotiated periodically; thus, even if we are currently able to monetize Streaming Hours within an app, we may not be able to do so in the future. If we are unable to further monetize our streaming platform, our business may be harmed. Our efforts to monetize our streaming platform may not continue to grow as we expect, and at times our platform revenue growth has been, and may in the future be, lower than expected due to advertising inventory supply and demand imbalances; advertisers significantly curtailing or pausing advertising spending due to macroeconomic factors or other factors beyond our control; competitive pressures from video advertising offerings on other TV streaming platforms or services; or the non-binding nature of advertisers spending commitments. For example, spending commitments we obtain in connection with annual TV Upfront presentations are typically not fully binding, and the revenue we receive from such commitments may be less than the initially committed amount. To materially increase the monetization of our streaming platform through the sale of video advertising, we must generate significantly more advertising revenue on our streaming platform as well as deliver ad-supported content that results in our users streaming significantly more ad-supported content. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in monetizing our streaming platform through the distribution of ad-supported content. We are subject to various risks in connection with our operation and monetization of The Roku Channel. We operate The Roku Channel, which offers ad-supported free access for users to a collection of films, television series, live linear television, and other content. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs and expenses in connection with the development, expansion, and operation of The Roku Channel, which we monetize primarily through advertising. We also commission original content that we own and distribute on The Roku Channel. From time to time, we may remove underperforming content from The Roku Channel and record an impairment charge related to such removal. If our users do not continue to stream the ad-supported content we make available on The Roku Channel, we will not have the opportunity to monetize The Roku Channel through revenue generated from advertising. In order to attract users to the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel and drive streaming of ad-supported video on The Roku Channel, we must secure rights to stream content that is appealing to our users and advertisers. In part, we do this by directly licensing certain content from content owners, such as television and movie studios. Our agreements with these content owners have varying terms and provide us with rights to make specific content available through The Roku Channel during certain periods of time. Upon expiration of these agreements, we must re-negotiate and renew these agreements with the existing content owners, or enter into new agreements with other content owners, to obtain rights to distribute additional titles or to extend the duration of the rights previously granted. If we cannot enter into content license agreements on acceptable terms to access content that enables us to attract and retain users of the ad-supported content on The Roku Channel, or if the content we do secure rights to stream is ultimately not appealing to our users and advertisers, usage of The Roku Channel may decline, and our business may be harmed. Further, even if we successfully monetize The Roku Channel in the United States, we may not be successful in monetizing The Roku Channel in international markets. See also We may be unable to successfully expand our international operations, and our international expansion plans, if implemented, will subject us to a variety of risks that may harm our business. In addition, we produce content for distribution on The Roku Channel and other platforms. We have limited experience producing content, and we may not succeed in doing so in a cost-effective manner that furthers the growth of The Roku Channel and increases its appeal to our users and advertisers. We also assume risks associated with content production, such as completion and key talent risks, and the risk of litigation and claims related to our content production. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, if the advertisements on The Roku Channel are not relevant to our users or are overly intrusive and impede our users enjoyment of the available content, our users may not stream content and view advertisements on The Roku Channel, and The Roku Channel may not generate sufficient revenue from advertising to be cost effective for us to operate. In addition, we distribute The Roku Channel on platforms other than our own streaming platform, and we may not be successful in attracting a large number of users or generating significant revenue from advertising through the distribution of The Roku Channel on such other streaming platforms. The sale of Premium Subscriptions on The Roku Channel also generates platform revenue and carries certain non-advertising related risks. See If our users sign up for offerings and services outside of our streaming platform or through other apps on our streaming platform, our business may be harmed. We depend on a small number of content partners for a majority of our Streaming Hours, and if we fail to maintain these relationships, our business could be harmed. Historically, a small number of content partners have accounted for a significant portion of the hours streamed on our platform. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, the top three streaming services (excluding The Roku Channel) represented almost 50% of all hours streamed in the period. If, for any reason, we cease distributing apps that have historically streamed a large percentage of the aggregate Streaming Hours on our platform, our Streaming Hours, user base, or Roku streaming device sales may be adversely affected, and our business may be harmed. If popular or new content publishers do not publish content on our streaming platform, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users. We must continuously maintain existing relationships and identify and establish new relationships with content publishers to provide popular streaming apps, streaming app features, and content on our platform. In order to remain competitive, we must consistently meet user demand for popular streaming apps, streaming app features, streaming app bundles, and content, particularly as we launch new streaming devices, introduce new TVs powered by the Roku TV OS, or enter new markets, including international markets. This may be challenging as the industry continues to evolve, including through consolidation of content publishers, joint ventures among content publishers, and licensing of content between content publishers. If we are not successful in helping our content publishers launch, maintain, and expand their streaming apps and streaming app features that attract and retain a significant number of users on our streaming platform or if we are not able to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business will be harmed. Our success in assisting our content publishers maintain and expand their app offerings on a cost-effective basis largely depends on our ability to effectively promote and market streaming apps, minimize launch delays or downtime of streaming apps, and minimize streaming platform downtime and other technical difficulties. In addition, if service operators, including traditional TV providers, refuse to grant our users access to stream certain apps or only make content available on devices they prefer, our ability to offer a broad selection of popular streaming apps or content may be limited, which could adversely affect our business. The non-renewal or early termination of agreements with our content partners may result in the removal of certain apps or app features from our streaming platform and harm our streaming device sales, user base growth, and engagement. Our agreements with content partners generally have terms of one to three years and can be terminated before the end of the term by the content partner under certain circumstances, including if we materially breach the agreement, become insolvent, enter bankruptcy, commit fraud, or fail to adhere to the content partners security or other platform certification requirements. Upon expiration of these agreements, we are required to re-negotiate and renew them in order to continue providing content from these content partners on our streaming platform. We have in the past been unable, and in the future may not be able, to reach a satisfactory agreement with certain content partners before our existing agreements have expired. If we are unable to renew such agreements on a timely basis on mutually agreeable terms, or if a content partner terminates an agreement with us prior to its expiration, we may be required to temporarily or permanently remove certain apps or app features from our streaming platform. The loss of such apps or app features from our streaming platform for any period of time may harm our business. More broadly, if we fail to maintain our relationships with the content partners on terms favorable to us, or at all, or if these content partners face problems in delivering their content across our streaming platform, we may lose app partners or users and our streaming device sales, user base growth, and engagement may be harmed. If our content partners do not participate in new features that we may introduce from time to time or choose develop their apps on alternative streaming platforms, our business may be harmed. As our streaming platform and products evolve, we will continue to introduce new features, which may or may not be attractive to our content partners or meet their business or technical requirements. For example, some content partners have elected not to participate in new Roku Home Screen Menu features or in our Roku Zones (collections of related content from apps across our streaming platform) or have imposed limits on our data gathering for usage within their apps. See also We may not be successful in our efforts to further monetize our expanding user base and streaming activity as we increase the amount of content offered and streamed across our platform, which may harm our business. In addition, our streaming platform utilizes our proprietary Brightscript scripting language to allow our content partners to develop and create apps on our streaming platform. Certain content partners may find other languages, such 15 Table of Contents as HTML5, more attractive to develop for and shift their resources to developing their apps on other platforms. If key content partners do not find our streaming platform simple and attractive to develop apps for, do not value and participate in all of the features and functionality that our streaming platform offers, or determine that our software developer kit or new features of our platform do not meet their requirements, our business may be harmed. If our users sign up for offerings and services outside of our streaming platform or through other apps on our streaming platform, our business may be harmed. We earn revenue by acquiring subscribers for certain of our content partners activated on or through our streaming platform, including Premium Subscriptions on The Roku Channel, which allow our users to pay for content from various content partners. If users reduce their use of our streaming platform for these purchases or subscriptions for any reason, including opting to pay for services directly with content partners or by other means for which we do not receive attribution, our business may be harmed. In addition, certain apps available on our streaming platform allow users to purchase additional streaming services from within those apps. The revenue we earn from these transactions, if any, is not always equivalent to the revenue we earn from sales of such additional services on a stand-alone basis through our streaming platform. If users increase their spending on such in-app transactions at the expense of stand-alone purchases through our streaming platform, our business may be harmed. Our growth depends in part on our ability to develop, maintain, and expand relationships with our licensed Roku TV partners and manufacturing partners. We license the Roku TV OS and our smart TV reference designs to certain TV brand and manufacturing partners for the development, manufacture, and commercialization of licensed Roku TV models and, for a number of years, the sale of Roku TV models by our licensed Roku TV partners has materially contributed to growth in our user base and Streaming Hours and supported our platform monetization efforts. As our Roku TV licensing program has expanded to certain markets outside the United States, international users are representing an increasing share of our user base. We have developed, and intend to continue to develop and expand, relationships with these TV brand and manufacturing partners as we continue to invest in the growth and expansion of our Roku TV program both in the United States and international markets. We typically do not receive or expect license revenue from these license arrangements but incur operating expenses to establish and support them. The economic benefits that we derive from these license arrangements are and will likely continue to be indirect, primarily growth of our user base and increasing Streaming Hours, and both enabling us to generate more streaming services distribution and advertising-related revenue on our platform. If these arrangements do not continue to result in increased user base and Streaming Hours, and if that growth does not in turn lead to successfully monetizing that increased user activity, our business may be harmed. See also We may not be successful in our efforts to further monetize our expanding user base and streaming activity as we increase the amount of content offered and streamed across our platform, which may harm our business. The loss of a relationship with a licensed Roku TV partner (including as a result of our launch of Roku-branded TVs that are designed, made, and sold by us) could harm our results of operations, damage our reputation, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and retail distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, and result in the loss of revenue. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships with any of these licensed Roku TV partners, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, or other impediments to these relationships, our ability to grow or maintain our business could be adversely impacted. Our Roku TV licensing arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and complete. Under these license arrangements, we generally have limited or no control over the amount and timing of resources our licensing partners may dedicate to the relationship. In the past, our licensed Roku TV partners have failed to meet their forecasts and anticipated market launch dates for distributing Roku TV models, and they may fail to do so in the future. If our licensed Roku TV partners fail to meet their forecasts or launch dates for distributing our streaming devices or choose to deploy competing streaming solutions within their product lines, our business may be harmed. We and our licensed Roku TV partners depend on retail sales channels to effectively market and sell our respective products, and if we or our partners fail to maintain and expand effective retail sales channels, we or our partners could experience lower product sales. To continue to grow our user base, we must maintain and expand retail sales channels for our products and for the Roku products sold by our partners or licensees. The majority of our products and our licensed Roku TV partners products are sold through traditional brick and mortar retailers, such as Best Buy, Costco, Target, and Walmart, their respective online sales platforms, and traditional online retailers such as Amazon. We also sell certain products directly through our website and internationally through distributors and retailers such as Coppel in Mexico, Magazine Luiza in Brazil, MediaMarkt in Germany, and Currys in the United Kingdom. As we are still a recent entrant in international markets, we may not have established a strong reputation or relationships with retailers for those markets as compared to our retail sales channels in the United States or our competitors in international markets. See also We may be unable to successfully expand our international operations, and our international expansion plans, if implemented, will subject us to a variety of risks that may harm our business. 16 Table of Contents Our retailers and distributors also sell products that compete with our products and our licensed Roku TV partners products, including house-branded televisions sold by such retailers that utilize TV operating systems other than the Roku TV OS. We have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these retailers or distributors, and there can be no assurance that we will reach agreements with our retailers and distributors on terms we find acceptable or that will be consistent with our past practices. We may be reliant on certain retailers or distributors. Amazon, Best Buy, Target, and Walmart in total accounted for 81% and 76% of our devices revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Furthermore, our licensed Roku TV partners may be reliant on the same or other retailers and distributors for a significant portion of their unit sales of Roku TV models. If one or several retailers or distributors were to discontinue selling our or licensed Roku TV partners products, choose not to prominently display those products in their stores or on their websites, or close or severely limit access to their brick and mortar locations, the volume of our or our licensed Roku TV partners products sold could decrease, which would harm our business. These risks may be exacerbated by our reliance on certain retailers or distributors, or when a major retailer in a jurisdiction commercializes televisions under brands that the retailer controls. In addition, if any of our existing licensed Roku TV partners choose to work exclusively with, or divert a significant portion of their business with us, to other operating system developers, this may adversely impact our ability to continue to license the Roku TV OS and our smart TV reference design to TV brands and to grow our user base and monetize the Roku TV OS. Traditional retailers have limited shelf and end cap space in their stores and limited promotional budgets, and online retailers have limited prime website product placement space. Competition is intense for these resources, and a competitor with more extensive product lines, stronger brand identity, and greater marketing resources, such as Amazon or Google, possesses greater bargaining power with retailers. In addition, one of our online retailers, Amazon, sells its own competitive streaming devices, smart TVs, and smart home devices, is able to market and promote these products more prominently on its website, and could refuse to offer or promote our products on its website. We also may face increased competition with Walmart (which currently makes and sells Onn. branded streaming products, including co-branded Roku TV models), in light of Walmarts recent acquisition of Vizio (which also makes and sells smart TVs with a proprietary operating system). See also If our efforts to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain users, and our business may be harmed and If we fail to differentiate our streaming platform and compete successfully with our competitors, it will be difficult for us to attract and retain users and our business will be adversely impacted. Any reduction in our ability to place and promote our products, or increased competition for available shelf or website placement, could require us to increase our marketing or other expenditures to maintain our product visibility or could result in reduced visibility for our products, which may harm our business. In particular, the availability of product placement during peak retail periods, such as the holiday season, is critical to our revenue growth, and if we are unable to effectively sell our products during these periods, our business would be harmed. If our efforts to build a strong brand and maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain users, and our business may be harmed. Building and maintaining a strong brand is important to attract and retain users, as potential users have a number of TV streaming choices. Successfully building a brand is a time-consuming and comprehensive endeavor, and our brand may be negatively impacted by factors, some which are beyond our control, such as the quality and reliability of the Roku TV models made by our licensed Roku TV partners and the quality of the content provided by our content partners. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and consumer demand for their products more quickly and effectively than we can. Many of our competitors are larger companies and may have greater resources to devote to the promotion of their brands through traditional advertising, digital advertising, or website product placement. See also If we fail to differentiate our streaming platform and compete successfully with our competitors, it will be difficult for us to attract and retain users and our business will be adversely impacted. If we are unable to execute on building a strong brand, it may be difficult to differentiate our business and streaming platform from our competitors in the marketplace, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain users and harm our business. Our streaming platform allows our users to choose from a wide variety of apps, representing a variety of content from a wide range of content partners. While we have policies that prohibit the publication of content that is unlawful, incites illegal activities, or violates third-party rights, among other things, we may distribute apps that include controversial content. Controversies related to the content included on certain apps that we distribute have resulted in, and could in the future result in, negative publicity, cause harm to our reputation and brand, or subject us to claims and may harm our business. If we encounter problems with the limited number of contract manufacturers we primarily depend upon, our operations could be disrupted. We do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities and rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to build our players, smart home products, and Roku-branded TVs. Our contract manufacturers are vulnerable to, among other issues: capacity constraints; reduced component availability; 17 Table of Contents production, supply chain, or shipping disruptions, delays, or increased costs, including from labor disputes, strikes, mechanical issues, quality control issues, natural disasters, geopolitical conflicts, and public health crises; and the impact of U.S. or foreign tariffs, trade, or sanctions restrictions on components, finished goods, software, other products, or data transfers. As a result, we have limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs, particularly when components are in short supply or when we introduce new products. We also have limited control over our contract manufacturers quality systems and controls, and therefore must rely on them to manufacture our products to our quality and performance standards and specifications. Delays, component shortages, quality issues, and other manufacturing and supply problems in the past have impaired, and could in the future impair, the retail distribution of our products and ultimately our brand. Furthermore, any adverse change in our contract manufacturers financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply our products to our retailers and distributors. We also rely upon our contract manufacturers and other contractors to perform some of the development work on our products. The contract manufacturers or other contractors may be unwilling or unable to successfully complete desired development or fix defects or errors in a timely manner. Delays in development work by contract manufacturers or contractors could delay launch of new or improved products. Our contracts with our contract manufacturers generally may not contain terms that protect us against development, manufacturing, and supply disruptions or risks. For example, such contracts may not obligate our contract manufacturers to supply our products in any specific quantity or at any specific price. If our contract manufacturers are unable to fulfill our production requirements in a timely manner, if their costs increase because of inflationary pressures, U.S. or international tariffs, sanctions, export or import restrictions, or if they decide to terminate their relationship with us, our order fulfillment may be delayed or terminated, and we would have to attempt to identify, select, and qualify acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. Alternative contract manufacturers may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices, to our quality and performance standards on a timely basis, or at all. Any significant interruption in manufacturing at our contract manufacturers for any reason could require us to reduce our supply of products to our retailers and distributors, which in turn would reduce our revenue, or incur higher freight costs than anticipated, which would negatively impact our devices gross margin. In addition, our contract manufacturers facilities, and the facilities of our contract manufacturers suppliers, are located in various geographic areas that may be subject to political, economic, labor, trade, public health, social, and legal uncertainties, including Taiwan, Vietnam, China, and Brazil, and such uncertainties may harm or disrupt our relationships with these parties or their ability to perform. For example, if the tensions between Taiwan and China escalate and impact the operations of our contract manufacturers and their Taiwanese suppliers, our supply chain and our business could be adversely affected. We believe that the international location of these facilities increases supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions, tariffs, and trade restrictions on exports or imports. The supply of Roku TV models to the market could be disrupted if our licensed Roku TV partners encounter problems with their internal operations or with their contract manufacturers, assemblers, or component suppliers. Some of our licensed Roku TV partners have internal manufacturing capabilities, while others rely primarily or exclusively upon contract manufacturers to build the Roku TV models that our licensed Roku TV partners sell to retailers. Regardless of whether their manufacturing capabilities are internal or contracted, our licensed Roku TV partners manufacturers may be vulnerable to capacity constraints and reduced component availability; increases in tariffs on imports of Roku TV models; future possible changes in regulations on exports; restrictions, by the United States or otherwise, on dealings with certain countries, companies, or imported inputs; tariffs on parts or components for Roku TV models; and supply chain disruptions, increased shipping costs, and shipping delays. Our licensed Roku TV partners control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs, particularly when components are in short supply, may be limited. For those licensed Roku TV partners with contract manufacturers or suppliers, the problems are exacerbated because the contract manufacturer is a third party, and the licensed Roku TV partner does not have direct visibility into or control over the operations. Delays, component shortages, and other manufacturing and supply problems could impair the manufacture or distribution of Roku TV models. Interruptions in the supply of Roku TV models to retailers and distributors or increases in the pricing of Roku TV models at times have negatively affected, and could adversely affect in the future, the volume of Roku TV models sold at retail, resulting in slower user base and Streaming Hours growth. Furthermore, any manufacturing, design, or other issues affecting the quality or performance of Roku TV models could harm our brand and our business. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements for our products and manage our inventory with our contract manufacturers, we could incur additional costs, experience manufacturing delays, and lose revenue. We bear risks of excess and insufficient inventories under our contract manufacturing arrangements. For example, our contract manufacturers order materials and components in advance in an effort to meet our projected needs for our products. Lead times for the materials and components that our contract manufacturers order on our behalf through different component suppliers may vary significantly and depend on numerous factors outside of our control, including the specific supplier, contract terms, shipping and freight, market demand for a component at a given time, and trade and government relations. Lead times for certain key materials and components incorporated into our products are currently lengthy and may require our contract manufacturers to order materials and components many months in advance. If we overestimate our production requirements, our contract manufacturers may purchase excess components and build excess inventory. If our contract manufacturers, at our request, purchase excess components or build excess products, we could be required to pay for these excess components or products. In the past, we have agreed to reimburse our contract manufacturers for purchased components that were not used as a result of our decision to discontinue a certain model or the use of particular components. If we incur costs to cover excess supply commitments, our business may be harmed. Conversely, if we underestimate our product requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate material or component inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing of our products, result in insufficient quantities available to meet demand, and result in delays or cancellation of orders from retailers and distributors. In addition, from time to time we have experienced unanticipated increases in demand that resulted in the need to ship our products via air freight, which is more expensive than ocean freight, and adversely affected our devices gross margin during such periods of high demand (for example, during end-of-year holidays). If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements, our business may be harmed. Our products incorporate key components from sole source suppliers, and if our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products to our retailers and distributors. We depend on sole source suppliers for key components in our products. For example, each of our streaming players and TVs powered by the Roku TV OS may utilize a specific system on chip (or SoC), Wi-Fi silicon product, and Wi-Fi front-end module, each of which may be available from only a single manufacturer and for which we do not have a second source. Although this approach allows us to maximize product performance on lower cost hardware, reduce engineering development and qualification costs, and develop stronger relationships with our strategic suppliers, this also creates supply chain risk. These sole-source suppliers could be constrained by fabrication capacity issues or material supply issues, such as U.S. or foreign tariffs, war or other government or trade relations issues, other export or import restrictions on parts or components for finished products that are used in final assembly of their components (or on the finished products themselves), or shortages of key components. There is also a risk that the strategic supplier may stop producing such components, cease operations, be acquired by or enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors or other companies, put contract manufacturers on allocation because of semiconductor shortages, or become subject to U.S. or foreign sanctions or export control restrictions or penalties. Such suppliers have experienced, and may in the future experience, production, shipping, or logistical constraints arising from macroeconomic conditions or other circumstances, such as inflationary pressures, geopolitical conflicts, and supply chain disruptions. Such interruptions and delays have in the past and may in the future force us to seek similar components from alternative sources, which may not always be available, and which may cause us to delay product introductions and incur air freight expense. Switching from a sole-source supplier may require that we adapt our software and redesign our products to accommodate new chips and components, and may require us to re-qualify our products with regulatory bodies, such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which would be costly and time-consuming. Our reliance on sole-source suppliers involves a number of additional risks, including risks related to: supplier capacity constraints; price increases, including those related to inflationary pressures, tariffs, and material costs; timely delivery; component quality; and delays in, or the inability to execute on, a supplier roadmap for components and technologies. Any interruption in the supply of sole-source components for our products could adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our retailers and distributors, result in lost sales and higher expenses, and harm our business. If our products do not operate effectively with various offerings, technologies, and systems from content partners and other third parties that we do not control, our business may be harmed. The Roku TV OS is designed to perform using relatively low-cost hardware, which enables us to drive user growth via Roku streaming devices offered at a low cost to users. However, this hardware must be interoperable with all apps and other offerings, technologies, and systems from our content partners, including virtual multi-channel video programming distributors, and other third parties. We have no control over these offerings, technologies, and systems beyond our app certification requirements, and if Roku streaming devices do not provide our users with a high-quality experience on those offerings on a cost-effective basis or if changes are made to those offerings that are not compatible 19 Table of Contents with Roku streaming devices, we may be unable to increase user base growth and user engagement or may be required to increase our hardware costs, and our business will be harmed. We plan to continue to introduce new products regularly, including, for example, the Roku-branded TVs we launched in 2023 and 2024, and we have experienced that it takes time to optimize such products to function well with these offerings, technologies and systems. In addition, many of our largest content partners have the right to test and certify our new products before we can publish their apps. The certification processes can be time-consuming and introduce third-party dependencies into our product release cycles. If our content partners do not certify new products on a timely basis or require us to make changes in order to obtain certifications, our product release plans may be adversely impacted, we may not be able to offer certain products to all licensed Roku TV partners or we may not continue to offer certain apps. To continue to grow our user base and user engagement, we will need to prioritize development of Roku streaming devices to work better with new offerings, technologies, and systems. If we are unable to maintain consistent operability of Roku streaming devices that is on parity with or better than other platforms, our business could be harmed. In addition, any future changes to offerings, technologies, and systems from our content partners may impact the accessibility, speed, functionality, and other performance aspects of Roku streaming devices. We may not successfully develop Roku streaming devices that operate effectively with these offerings, technologies, or systems. If it becomes more difficult for our users to access and use these offerings, technologies, or systems, our business could be harmed. Our products are complex and may contain hardware defects and software errors, which could manifest themselves in ways that could harm our reputation and our business. Our products and the products of our licensed Roku TV partners are complex and have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, hardware defects or software errors. These defects and errors can manifest themselves in any number of ways in our products or our streaming platform, including through diminished performance, security vulnerabilities, data loss or poor quality, device malfunctions, account inactivity, or even permanently disabled products. Some errors may only be discovered after a product has been shipped and used by users and may in some cases only be detected under certain circumstances or after extended use. We update our software on a regular basis, and, despite our quality assurance processes, we could introduce software errors in the process of any such update. The introduction of a serious software error could result in products becoming permanently disabled. We offer a limited warranty for our products, in accordance with applicable law, however, providing software updates, product support, and other activities could cause us to be responsible for issues with products for an extended period of time. Any defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customer goodwill and users, and increased service costs, any of which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We could also face claims for product or information liability, tort or breach of warranty, or other violations of laws or regulations. In addition, our contracts with our end users contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of Roku and our products. In addition, if our insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business could be harmed. Components used in our products may fail as a result of manufacturing, design, or other defects that were unknown to us or over which we have no control and may render our products permanently inoperable. We rely on third-party component suppliers to provide certain functionalities needed for the operation and use of our products. Any errors or defects in such third-party technology could result in errors or defects in our products that could harm our business. If these components have a manufacturing, design, or other defect, they could cause our products to fail and could render them permanently inoperable. For example, the typical means by which our users connect their home networks to our players is by way of a Wi-Fi access point in the home network router. If the Wi-Fi receiver or transmitter in a player fails and cannot detect a home networks Wi-Fi access point, the player will not be able to display or deliver any content to the TV screen. As a result, we may have to recall and replace defective products, which could be at a considerable expense. In addition, if our insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business could be harmed. Should we have a widespread problem of this kind, our reputation in the market could also be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain or maintain necessary or desirable licenses, certifications, or approvals related to our use or support of third-party technology, intellectual property, or services then our ability to develop and introduce new products and services, and continue to manufacture, update, and commercialize existing products and services, may be impaired. We use or enable in our products and services certain industry standard and other technology, intellectual property, and services that are obtained from third parties. In order to continue to make, distribute, update, and commercialize existing products and services and introduce and commercialize new products and services that use a third-party technology, we may be required to maintain certain licenses, certifications, and approvals from the relevant third parties. The licenses, certifications, and approvals we need to obtain may be or become unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain necessary third-party licenses, certifications, or approvals, we may have to obtain substitute technologies, intellectual property, or services with lower 20 Table of Contents quality or performance standards, or at a greater cost, or remove desired functions and features from our products and services, any of which could harm customer and partner relationships, as well as the competitiveness of our products, services, and business. Our products and services are designed to be compatible with numerous industry standards. In many cases, these industry standards have numerous associated patents known generally as standard essential patents (SEPs). Over time, SEP owners have increasingly turned away from licensing their SEPs through patent pools, preferring to license their portfolios directly. This has increased the number of licensors (since the patents are not pooled) and increased the time, cost, and difficulty of SEP licensing. If we are unable to obtain a license to a necessary SEP on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or find a suitable substitute technology that complies with the industry standard, our customer and partner relationships, as well as the competitiveness of our products and services, and our business may be harmed. See also We must continue to innovate and develop new and existing products and services to remain competitive, and new products and services expose our business to new risks. We must continue to innovate and develop new and existing products and services to remain competitive, and new products and services expose our business to new risks. We must continually innovate and improve our products and services and develop new products and services to meet changing consumer demands. The introduction of a new product or service is a complex process, involving significant expenditures in research and development, promotion, and sales channel development, and can expose our business to new risks. The introduction of new products and services or changes to our existing products and services may result in new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, new litigation or claims, or other complications that could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. In addition, our entrance into entirely new lines of business beyond our historical core business of TV streaming and advertising, such as our Roku-branded smart home products, may change our risk profile and subject us to risks that differ from the risks we face as a result of our historical TV streaming business. Whether users will broadly adopt our new products or services is not certain. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new and competitively priced products and services and add new desirable content and features to our streaming platform. Moreover, we must introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, and we must secure production orders for new products from our contract manufacturers. See also If popular or new content publishers do not publish content on our streaming platform, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users. The successful development and introduction of new products and services depends on a number of factors, including: the accuracy of our forecasts for market requirements beyond near-term visibility; our ability to anticipate and react to new technologies and evolving consumer trends; our development, licensing, or acquisition of new technologies; our timely completion of new designs and development; our ability to timely and adequately redesign or resolve design or manufacturing or security issues; our ability to identify and contract with appropriate manufacturers; the ability of our contract manufacturers to cost-effectively manufacture our products, produce quality products, and minimize defects, manufacturing mishaps, shipping costs, and delays; the availability of materials and key components used in manufacturing; tariffs, trade, sanctions, and export restrictions by the U.S. or foreign governments; our ability to comply with regulatory requirements; and our ability to attract and retain high quality research and development personnel. If any of these or other factors materializes, we may not be able to develop and introduce new products or services in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our business may be harmed. We do not expect that all of our new products and services will be successful. We are incorporating AI technologies into some of our products and services, which may present operational and reputational risks. We have incorporated and intend to continue to incorporate AI technologies, such as generative AI, into our products and services. For example, we have introduced a generative-driven ad creation service for our advertisers to help them create ads more easily, and we continue to use AI technologies to power our content recommendation engine and our content row on the Roku Home Screen. As with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could adversely impact our business. AI technologies can create accuracy issues, unintended biases, and discriminatory outcomes, or may create content that appears correct but is inaccurate or flawed. If the recommendations, content, or analyses that AI applications produce are or are alleged to be deficient or inaccurate, we could be subjected to competitive harm, potential legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. The legal and regulatory landscape surrounding AI technologies is rapidly evolving and uncertain, including in the areas of intellectual property, cybersecurity, and privacy and data protection. For example, there is uncertainty around the validity and enforceability of 21 Table of Contents intellectual property rights related to the use, development, and deployment of AI technologies. Compliance with new or changing laws, regulations or industry standards relating to AI may impose significant operational costs and may limit our ability to develop, deploy, or use AI technologies. See also If government regulations or laws relating to the internet, video, advertising, or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or our business could be harmed. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to mitigate the potential risks related to generative AI will be sufficient. Failure to appropriately respond to this evolving landscape may result in legal liability, regulatory action, or brand and reputational harm. If we fail to provide adequate levels of quality customer support, we could lose users, advertisers, content partners, and licensed Roku TV partners, which could harm our business. A high level of support is critical for the success of our business, and our users depend on this support to resolve issues relating to our products and our streaming platform. We currently outsource the majority of our customer support operation to a third-party customer support organization which provides support to end users and licensees. If we do not effectively train, update, and manage our third-party customer support organization to assist our users and licensees, and if that support organization does not succeed in helping them quickly resolve issues or provide effective ongoing support, it could adversely affect our ability to monetize our streaming platform, to sell our products to users and could harm our reputation with potential new customers and our licensees. Risks Related to Operating and Growing Our Business We have incurred operating losses in the past, and although we have achieved profitability in certain prior quarters, we may continue to incur operating losses in the future and may not be able to achieve profitability again in the near term or at all. We have incurred operating losses in the past, and we may incur operating losses in the future. Although we achieved profitability in certain prior quarters, we may not be able to achieve profitability again in the near term or at all. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,427.0 million. Our operating expenses have increased in the past and may increase again in the future as we expand our operations and invest in growth and new areas. If our revenue and gross profit do not grow at a greater rate than our operating expenses, we may not be able to achieve profitability again. We expect our profitability to fluctuate in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation the other risks and uncertainties described herein. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating or legal expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other factors that may result in losses in future periods. Our quarterly operating results may be volatile and are difficult to predict, and our stock price may decline if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our revenue, gross profit, key performance metrics, and other operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and may fail to match our past performance due to a variety of factors, including many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our operating results and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate include: the entrance of new competitors or competitive products or services; our ability to retain and grow our user base, increase engagement among new and existing users, and monetize our streaming platform; our ability to maintain effective pricing practices in response to competitive market conditions or other macroeconomic factors, such as increased taxes, inflation, or tariffs, and our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; our revenue mix, which drives gross profit; supply of advertising inventory on our platform and advertiser demand for such inventory; seasonal, cyclical, or other shifts in revenue from advertising or product sales; the timing of the launch of new or updated products, apps, or features; the addition or removal of content or apps from our streaming platform; the expense and availability of content to license or produce for The Roku Channel; the ability of retailers to anticipate consumer demand; an increase in the manufacturing or component costs of our products or partner-branded products; delays in delivery of our products or partner-branded products, or disruptions in our or our partners supply or distribution chains; and an increase in legal costs, including costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, defending against intellectual property infringement allegations, or procuring rights to intellectual property. See also The market price of our Class A common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. Our gross margins vary across our devices and platform offerings. Our devices segment experienced negative gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2024, and our platform segment experienced positive gross margin for the year 22 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2024. Gross margins on our streaming devices vary across models and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, component costs, device returns, and other cost fluctuations. In addition, our gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be adversely impacted as a result of a shift in device, geographic, or retail sales channel mix, component cost increases, price competition, or the introduction of new products, including those that have higher cost structures with flat or reduced pricing. We have in the past and may in the future strategically reduce our devices gross margin or record negative gross margin on devices in an effort to grow our user base and gross profit. As a result, our devices segment revenue may not increase as rapidly as it has in the past, or at all, and, unless we are able to continue to increase our platform segment revenue and grow our user base, we may be unable to grow gross profit and our business will be harmed. For example, from time to time, global supply chain disruptions have resulted in shipping delays, increased shipping costs, component shortages, and increases in component prices, which negatively affected our devices gross margin. If a reduction in devices gross margin does not result in an increase in our user base or an increase in our platform revenue and gross profit, our financial results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. In addition, our platform segment has experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, lower gross margins than we anticipate. If our platform gross margins are lower than we anticipate, our financial results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. If we have difficulty managing our growth in operating expenses, our business could be harmed. From time to time, we have experienced significant growth in our research and development, sales and marketing, support services, operations, and general and administrative functions, and we may expand certain of these activities in the future. Our historical growth has placed, and any future growth will continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to: manage a larger organization; hire more employees, including engineers with relevant skills and experience; expand internationally; increase our sales and marketing efforts; expand the capacity to manufacture and distribute our products; broaden our customer support capabilities; expand our product offerings; support our licensed Roku TV partners; expand and improve the content offering on our streaming platform; implement appropriate operational and financial systems; and maintain effective financial disclosure