Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred operating losses in the past, expect to incur operating losses in the future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We began operations in 2002 and we have experienced net losses in each year since inception. As of December 31, 2019, we had an accumulated deficit of $313.8 million and for the year ended December 31, 2019, we had a net loss of $59.9 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our revenue and gross profit do not grow at a greater rate than our operating expenses, we will not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We expect to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation the other risks and uncertainties described herein. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating or legal expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our expenses exceed our revenue, we may never achieve or maintain profitability and our business may be harmed. Our quarterly operating results may be volatile and are difficult to predict, and our stock price may decline if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our revenue, gross profit and other operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and may fail to match our past performance due to a variety of factors, including many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our operating results and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate include: the entrance of new competitors or competitive products in our market, whether by established or new companies; our ability to retain and grow our active account base and increase engagement among new and existing users; our ability to maintain effective pricing practices, in response to the competitive markets in which we operate or other macroeconomic factors, such as inflation or increased taxes; our revenue mix, which drives gross profit; seasonal, cyclical or other shifts in revenue from advertising or player sales; the timing of the launch of new or updated products, channels or features; the addition or loss of popular content or channels; the ability of retailers to anticipate consumer demand; an increase in the manufacturing or component costs of our players or the manufacturing or component costs of our TV brand licensees for Roku TV models; delays in delivery of our players, or Roku TV models, or disruptions in our, or our licensees supply or distribution chains; and an increase in costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, defending against third-party intellectual property infringement allegations or procuring rights to third-party intellectual property. Our gross margins vary across our devices and platform offerings. Player revenue has a lower gross margin compared to platform segment revenue derived through our arrangements with advertising, content distribution, billing and licensing activities. Gross margins on our players vary across player models and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, component costs, player returns and other cost fluctuations. In addition, our gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be 12 adversely impacted as a result of a shift in device, geographic or sales channel mix, component cost increases, price competition, or the introduction of new streaming devices, including those that have higher cost structures with flat or reduced pricing. We have in the past and may in the future strategically reduce our player gross margin in an effort to increase the number of active accounts and grow our gross profit. As a result, our player revenue may not increase as rapidly as it has historically, or at all, and, unless we are able to adequately increase our platform revenue and grow the number of active accounts, we may be unable to grow gross profit and our business will be harmed. If a reduction in gross margin does not result in an increase in our active accounts, increase our platform revenue and gross profit, our financial results may suffer, and our business may be harmed. If we have difficulty managing our growth in operating expenses, our business could be harmed. We have experienced significant growth in our research and development, sales and marketing, support services, operations and general and administrative functions in recent years and expect to continue to expand these activities. Our historical growth has placed, and expected future growth will continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to: manage a larger organization; hire more employees, including engineers with relevant skills and experience; expand our manufacturing and distribution capacity; increase our sales and marketing efforts; broaden our customer support capabilities; support a larger number of TV brand and service operators; implement appropriate operational and financial systems; expand internationally; and maintain effective financial disclosure