Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed on February 18, 2022, with the SEC. Overview We operate in two reportable segments: the platform segment and the player segment. Platform revenue is generated from the sale of digital advertising and related services, including our OneView ad platform, content distribution services (such as subscription and transaction revenue shares, media and entertainment promotional spending, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded channel buttons on remote controls), and licensing arrangements with service operators and TV brands. Player revenue is generated primarily from the sale of streaming players and audio products. We expect to continue to manage the average selling prices (ASP) of our streaming players to increase our active accounts. We expect that the trade off from player gross profit or loss to grow active accounts will result in increased platform revenue and platform gross profit. COVID-19 Update The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. Governmental authorities update their precautionary measures and promote vaccination programs to manage the spread of the virus as different variants of the virus surface and subside. Most of our employees now have a hybrid work schedule (consisting of both in-person work and working from home) in 2022. The COVID-19 pandemic, and the resulting precautionary measures, have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, economic uncertainty both in the United States and globally, as well as significant volatility in, and disruption to, financial markets and supply chains. Global supply chain disruptions have resulted in shipping delays, increased shipping costs, component shortages, and increases in component prices. The increasing component costs put additional constraints on our player gross margin resulting in a gross loss in the player segment for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Though we do not believe that the cost constraints and supply chain issues are permanent, they may continue to impact us and we expect our player gross margin to be negative in the near term. In addition, some of our TV brand partners have faced inventory challenges that have negatively impacted their unit sales. Some of our advertising verticals experienced supply chain disruptions that negatively impacted their product availability and resulted in advertisers reducing their overall advertising spend. While we experienced an increase in TV streaming during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic and our business has generally benefited, there can be no assurance that these patterns will continue through 2022. We believe that as the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, the direct and indirect impacts on global macro economic conditions, as well as conditions specific to us, are becoming more difficult to isolate or quantify. In addition, these direct and indirect factors can make it difficult to isolate and quantify the portion of our costs that are a direct result of the pandemic and costs arising from factors that may have been influenced by the pandemic, including supply chain constraints, increased component prices, and changes in the spending pattern of advertisers. We expect these factors and their effects on our operations may persist for a longer period, even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided. Key Performance Metrics The key performance metrics we use to evaluate our business, measure our performance, develop financial forecasts and make strategic decisions are gross profit, active accounts, streaming hours, and average revenue per user (ARPU). Gross Profit We use gross profit as the primary metric to measure the performance of our business because we have two revenue segments that have different margin profiles, and we aim to maximize our higher margin platform revenue from our active accounts as they stream content on our platform. Substantially all of our gross profit is generated from our platform segment. Our gross profit was $364.8 million and $326.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, reflecting an increase of 12%. 23 Table of Contents Active Accounts We believe that the number of active accounts is a relevant measure to gauge the size of our user base. We define active accounts as the number of distinct user accounts that have streamed content on our platform within the last 30 days of the period. Users who streamed content from The Roku Channel only on non-Roku platforms are not included in this metric. The number of active accounts also does not correspond to the number of unique individuals who actively utilize our platform, or the number of devices associated with an account. For example, a single account may be used by more than one individual, such as a family, and one account may be used on multiple streaming devices. We had 61.3 million and 53.6 million active accounts as of March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, reflecting an increase of 14%. Hours Streamed We believe the number of streaming hours on our platform is an effective measure of user engagement and that the growth in the number of hours of content streamed across our platform reflects our success in addressing the growing user demand for TV streaming. We define streaming hours as the aggregate amount of time streaming devices stream content on our platform in a given period. Hours streamed from The Roku Channel on non-Roku platforms are not included in this metric. We report streaming hours on a calendar basis. We believe that over time, increasing user engagement on our streaming platform increases our platform monetization because we earn platform revenue from various forms of user engagement, including advertising, as well as revenue shares from subscriptions and transactional video on-demand. However, our revenue from content publishers is not tied to the hours streamed on their streaming channels, and the number of streaming hours does not correlate to revenue earned from such content publishers or ARPU on a period-by-period basis. Furthermore, streaming hours on our platform are measured whenever a Roku player or a Roku TV is streaming content, whether a viewer is actively watching or not. For example, if a Roku player is connected to a TV, and the viewer turns off the TV, steps away, or falls asleep and does not stop or pause the player, then the particular streaming channel may continue to play content for a period of time determined by the streaming channel. We believe that this also occurs across a wide variety of non-Roku streaming devices and other set-top boxes. However, since the first quarter of 2020, all of our devices include a Roku OS feature that is designed to identify when content has been continuously streaming on a channel for an extended period of time without user interaction. This feature periodically prompts the user to confirm that they are still watching the selected channel and closes the channel if the user does not respond affirmatively. Some of our leading channel partners, including Netflix, also have implemented similar features within their channels. This Roku OS feature supplements these channel features, and we believe that it benefits us, our customers, channel partners, and advertisers. This feature has not had and is not expected to have a material impact on our future financial performance. We streamed 20.9 billion and 18.3 billion hours during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, reflecting an increase of 14%. Average Revenue per User We measure our platform monetization progress with ARPU, which we believe represents the inherent value of our business. We define ARPU as our platform revenue for the trailing four quarters divided by the average of the number of active accounts at the end of the current period and the end of the corresponding period in the prior year. ARPU measures the rate at which we are monetizing our active account base and the progress of our platform business. ARPU was $42.91 as of March 31, 2022 as compared to $32.14 as of March 31, 2021, reflecting an increase of 34%. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Platform Revenue We generate platform revenue from digital advertising sales and related services including our OneView ad platform, content distribution services (such as subscription and transaction revenue sharing arrangements, media and entertainment promotional spending, the sale of Premium Subscriptions, and the sale of branded channel buttons on remote controls), and licensing arrangements with service operators and TV brands. Our ad inventory includes video ad inventory from AVOD content in The Roku Channel, native display ads on our home screen and screen saver, as well as ad inventory we obtain through our content distribution agreements with publishers. To supplement supply, we re-sell video inventory 24 Table of Contents that we purchase from content publishers and, to a lesser extent, directly sell third-party inventory on a revenue share basis. To date, we have generated most of our platform revenue in the United States. Player Revenue We generate player revenue primarily from the sale of streaming players through consumer retail distribution channels, including major brick and mortar retailers, such as Best Buy and Walmart, and online retailers, including Amazon. We generate most of our player revenue in the United States. In our international markets, we primarily sell our players through wholesale distributors which, in turn, re-sell to retailers. We currently distribute our players in various countries in North America, South America, and Europe. Player revenue also includes the sale of our audio products, including wireless speakers, smart soundbars and wireless subwoofers. Cost of Revenue Cost of Platform Revenue Cost of platform revenue primarily consists of costs associated with acquiring advertising inventory, amortization costs of content, both licensed and produced, and revenue share with content publishers. Cost of platform revenue also includes other costs such as payment processing fees, allocated expenses associated with the delivery of our services that primarily include costs of third-party cloud services and salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our customer support and platform operations personnel, and amortization of acquired developed technology. Cost of Player Revenue Cost of player revenue is comprised mostly of manufacturing costs for streaming players and audio products payable to our third-party contract manufacturers and technology licenses or royalty fees. Cost of player revenue also includes inbound and outbound freight, duties and logistics costs, third-party packaging, inventory reserves, and allocated overhead costs related to facilities and customer support, and salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for operations personnel. Operating and Other Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our development teams as well as outsourced development fees. In addition, research and development expenses include allocated facilities and overhead costs. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the development of our platform and player products and services. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, commissions, and stock-based compensation for our employees engaged in sales and sales support, marketing, communications, data science and analytics, business development, product management, and partner support functions. Sales and marketing expenses also include marketing, retail and merchandising costs, and allocated facilities and overhead expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we focus on growing active accounts, platform and player revenue, and expanding our business internationally. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our finance, legal, information technology, human resources, and other administrative personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal, accounting, and other professional service fees as well as allocated facility expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase due to the expansion of our business and related infrastructure. Other Income (Expense), Net For the three months ended March 31, 2022, other income (expense), net consists of interest income on cash and cash equivalents, income recognized related to non-cash consideration associated with the delivery of services as part of a strategic commercial arrangement, interest expense that includes interest on our debt and amortization of deferred debt costs, foreign currency re-measurement, and transaction gains and losses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, 25 Table of Contents other income (expense), net consists of interest income on cash and cash equivalents, interest expense that includes interest on our debt and amortization of deferred debt costs, foreign currency re-measurement, and transaction gains and losses. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Our income tax expense (benefit) consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business and income taxes in the United States. We have a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating losses primarily for U.S. and any jurisdiction where we do not expect to realize their benefits in the future. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Net Revenue: Platform 88 % 81 % Player 12 % 19 % Total net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of Revenue: Platform 36 % 27 % Player 14 % 16 % Total cost of revenue 50 % 43 % Gross Profit (Loss): Platform 52 % 54 % Player (2) % 3 % Total gross profit 50 % 57 % Operating Expenses: Research and development 22 % 18 % Sales and marketing 20 % 15 % General and administrative 11 % 11 % Total operating expenses 53 % 44 % Income (Loss) from Operations (3) % 13 % Other Income (Expense), Net: Interest expense % % Other income (expense), net % % Total other income (expense), net % % Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (3) % 13 % Income tax expense (benefit) % % Net Income (Loss) (3) % 13 % 26 Table of Contents Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 Net Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Platform $ 646,904 $ 466,526 $ 180,378 39 % Player 86,795 107,657 (20,862) (19) % Total net revenue $ 733,699 $ 574,183 $ 159,516 28 % Platform Platform revenue increased by $180.4 million, or 39%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily from higher revenue from advertising and content distribution services, such as media and entertainment promotional revenue and distribution of Premium Subscriptions through The Roku Channel. The increase in the variety of content, both licensed and original productions, have significantly increased the advertising opportunities available on the platform. Player Player revenue decreased by $20.9 million, or 19%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to a decrease in both the volume of streaming players sold and average selling prices. The volume of streaming players sold decreased by 12% and the average selling price of players decreased by 9% mainly due to the slowdown in growth in the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 when the growth was aided by the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue from the sale of audio products and accessories was also impacted by the same factors resulting in lower revenue during the period. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of Revenue: Platform $ 266,985 $ 154,590 $ 112,395 73 % Player 101,907 92,822 9,085 10 % Total cost of revenue $ 368,892 $ 247,412 $ 121,480 49 % Gross Profit (Loss): Platform $ 379,919 $ 311,936 $ 67,983 22 % Player (15,112) 14,835 (29,947) (202) % Total gross profit $ 364,807 $ 326,771 $ 38,036 12 % Platform The cost of platform revenue increased by $112.4 million, or 73%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase is primarily driven by higher cost of acquiring content that includes content amortization costs, Premium Subscription costs, content publisher revenue share and credit card processing fees, and higher cost of acquiring advertising inventory totaling $95.5 million. Platform costs increased an additional $16.4 million due to increases in cloud services costs for supporting the platform and higher personnel costs. Gross profit for platform revenue increased by $68.0 million, or 22%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily driven by the overall growth in our platform revenue. Player The cost of player revenue increased by $9.1 million, or 10%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase is driven by higher inventory reserves of $5.0 million due to increased lower of cost or market valuation loss on existing inventory, higher manufacturing costs of $1.4 million 27 Table of Contents due to increased component costs, and higher freight costs of $2.2 million incurred to maintain adequate inventory through supply chain issues. Gross profit for player revenue decreased by $29.9 million, or 202%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, resulting in a gross loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The loss was mainly driven by reduced player revenue during the quarter combined with higher costs. We believe that the cost increases and supply chain issues will continue in the near future, and we expect to incur negative gross margin in the player segment in the near term. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 163,998 $ 101,581 $ 62,417 61 % Sales and marketing 146,522 88,873 57,649 65 % General and administrative 77,777 60,511 17,266 29 % Total operating expenses $ 388,297 $ 250,965 $ 137,332 55 % Research and development Research and development expenses increased by $62.4 million, or 61%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase is primarily due to increases in personnel-related costs of $46.4 million, as a result of increased engineering headcount and related stock-based compensation, higher facilities and information technology costs of $12.3 million from expansion of office facilities, computer equipment, and infrastructure to support growth and higher headcount, and higher consulting, professional services, and cloud services costs of $3.9 million. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $57.6 million, or 65%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase is primarily due to increases in personnel-related costs of $39.6 million related to increased headcount and related stock-based compensation in sales and sales support, product management, marketing, and business analytics to support efforts to grow our business. Sales and marketing expenses also include an increase of $9.4 million mainly due to increases in marketing, retail and merchandising costs, and advertising expenses to promote the Roku brand, an increase of $3.2 million in professional services and consulting fees, and an increase in facilities and information technology costs of $4.3 million to support expansion of office facilities and higher headcount. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $17.3 million, or 29%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase is primarily due to increases in personnel-related costs of $12.3 million related to increased headcount and related stock-based compensation and an increase in facilities and information technology costs of $3.9 million to support expansion of office facilities and higher headcount. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (1,057) $ (742) $ (315) 42 % Other income (expense), net 409 441 (32) (7) % Total other income (expense), net $ (648) $ (301) $ (347) 115 % Total other expense, net, increased by $0.3 million, or 115%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increased expense was primarily driven by an increase in interest expense of $0.3 million due to higher interest rates on the outstanding debt, foreign exchange losses of $0.7 million offset 28 Table of Contents by higher interest income of $0.4 million from improved interest rates on our cash balance and higher other income of $0.3 million related to non-cash consideration associated with the delivery of services for a strategic commercial arrangement. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Change $ Change % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense (benefit) $ 2,168 $ (791) $ 2,959 (374) % Income tax expense increased by $3.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, driven primarily by the adoption of new U.S. tax legislation from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, effective January 1, 2022, and a decrease in stock-based compensation excess tax benefits. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2,235.1 million. Approximately 1.1% of our cash was held outside the United States in accounts held by our foreign subsidiaries, which are used to fund foreign operations. Our primary sources of cash are receipts from platform and player revenue and proceeds from equity sales, including equity issued pursuant to our employee equity incentive plans. The primary uses of cash are costs of revenue, including costs to acquire advertising inventory, costs to acquire content through licensing, producing or revenue sharing, third-party manufacturing costs, as well as operating expenses including payroll-related expenses, consulting and professional service fees, and facility and marketing expenses. Other uses of cash include purchases of property and equipment and mergers and acquisitions. As our business and workforce continue to expand, we expect to continue to incur expenses for facility and building related costs for our office locations in the United States and internationally. In addition, we expect to continue our investments in purchases of computer systems and other property and equipment. We have pursued merger and acquisition activities, such as the acquisition of the Nielsen AVA business, the This Old House business, and content rights from Quibi in fiscal year 2021, and we may pursue additional merger and acquisition activities in the future. These activities can materially impact our liquidity and capital resources. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents balance, cash flow from operations, and our undrawn available balance under our Credit Agreement will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures, and material cash requirements from known contractual obligations for the next twelve months and beyond. Our future capital requirements, the adequacy of available funds, and cash flows from operations could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those detailed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the pandemic has not severely impacted our liquidity and capital resources to date, it has contributed to disruption and volatility in local economies and in capital and credit markets, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources in the future. We may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or other financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. Our Credit Agreement expires in February 2023. If we raise additional financing by the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be subject to fixed payment obligations and also to restrictive covenants. Senior Secured Term Loan A and Revolving Credit Facilities On February 19, 2019, we entered into a Credit Agreement with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. (as amended on May 3, 2019, the Credit Agreement), which provides for (i) a four-year revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million (the Revolving Credit Facility), (ii) a four-year delayed draw term loan A facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million (the Term Loan A Facility), and (iii) an uncommitted incremental facility subject to certain conditions (together with the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan A Facility, collectively, the Credit Facility). For our current borrowings, we have elected a Eurodollar borrowing with interest at a rate equal to the adjusted one-month LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin of 1.75% based on our secured leverage ratio. The borrowings under the facility mature or have to be repaid in full by February 2023. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, customary affirmative and negative covenants, a financial covenant that is tested quarterly and requires us to maintain a certain 29 Table of Contents adjusted quick ratio of at least 1.00 to 1.00, and customary events of default. As of March 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all of the covenants of the Credit Agreement. See Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report for additional details regarding the Credit Agreement. We had outstanding letters of credit of $38.0 million as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, against the Revolving Credit Facility. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 101,798 $ 95,799 Cash flows used in investing activities $ (14,764) $ (106,521) Cash flows provided by financing activities $ 2,102 $ 995,070 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our operating activities provided cash of $101.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our net loss of $26.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was adjusted by non-cash charges of $137.4 million comprised mainly of stock-based compensation, amortization of content assets, depreciation and amortization on property and equipment and intangible assets, and amortization of operating right-of-use assets. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities used cash of $9.3 million mainly from an increase in inventory balances, an increase in content assets, an increase in contract assets from revenue recognized from customers, payments made for operating lease liabilities, offset by inflows from an increase in accounts payable and deferred revenue and decrease in accounts receivable. These changes are mainly due to overall growth in the business combined with the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 included cash outflows of $14.8 million for purchases of property and equipment and expenditures related to expansion of our office facilities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Our financing activities provided cash of $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The cash was received from proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $3.4 million. These inflows were offset by $1.3 million of repayments made on borrowings. Material Cash Requirements from Known Contractual Obligations Our material cash requirements from known contractual obligations as of March 31, 2022 consisted of: Principal payments related to our Term Loan A Facility that are included in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and the related periodic interest payments. For additional information regarding the terms of the debt and interest payable, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report . Commitments to purchase finished goods from our contract manufacturers and other inventory related items. Consistent with industry practices, we enter into firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with our contract manufacturers to acquire products through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Our contract manufacturers source components and build our products based on these demand forecasts. Changes to projected demand or in the subsequent sales mix of our products may result in us being committed to purchase excess inventory to satisfy these commitments. For additional information regarding manufacturing purchase commitments, see Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Commitments to license content from content publishers under contractual arrangements. For additional information regarding licensed content commitments, see Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. 30 Table of Contents Operating lease liabilities that are included in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and liabilities related to the lease arrangements that have not yet commenced. For additional information regarding our lease liabilities, see Note 9 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. The contractual commitments discussed above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies, as well as uncertainty in the current economic environment due to the continuing COVID-19 pandemic. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report.