Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 1 Our Portfolio Rumble is comprised of two segments: Rumble Services and Rumble Cloud. 1) Rumble Services: Rumble Video: a video sharing platform enabled by Rumble.com and its associated mobile and connected TV applications; Rumble Streaming Marketplace: a multi-platform livestreaming and monetization service for creators enabled by Rumble Studio; Rumble Advertising Center: an in-house advertising marketplace and network enabled by Rumble Advertising Center (RAC); 2) Rumble Cloud: Rumble Cloud: an infrastructure as a service (IaaS) offering consisting of a portfolio of compute, storage, security, and networking offerings. Rumble Services Vision, Products and Differentiation Rumble Services consists of three core businesses: Rumble Video, Rumble Studio, and RAC. The collective vision of Rumble Services is to provide creators with the best monetization toolkit on the internet. To fulfill this vision, our product roadmap is focused on the progressive integration of these businesses and underlying products into to a single seamlessly integrated platform, which has the potential to unlock a variety of differentiated feature sets to users, creators, advertisers, and publishers. Rumble Video is enabled primarily through our flagship product, Rumble.com, a free-to-use video sharing and livestreaming platform on which users can watch, share, like, comment, and upload videos. Users can subscribe to channels to stay in touch with creators and access video on-demand (VOD) and live content streamed by creators. In addition, Rumble Video also offers a premium subscription service via Locals.com, where users can access certain free content and purchase subscriptions to support creators and access exclusive content in creator communities. Both Rumble.com and Locals.com are available via desktop and mobile web, iOS and Android mobile applications (apps), as well as connected TV apps including Roku, Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, LG, Samsung, and Android TV. In aggregate, Rumble Video provides a platform for creators to benefit from our growing advertising business and revenue share model. Rumble Streaming Marketplace is enabled by Rumble Studio, a new, patent-pending application designed to enable a first-of-its-kind livestreaming and monetization service for creators. Using Rumble Studio, creators can establish a variety of custom settings for their livestream, set up, go-live and control their livestream across multiple social platforms, while also benefiting from a variety of custom and programmatic monetization opportunities, including host-read ads and sponsorships. Rumble Studio is currently available via desktop and mobile web, as well as iOS and Android mobile applications. Rumble Advertising Center is our proprietary advertising marketplace and network designed to facilitate transactions for advertisers seeking to access Rumble.com traffic and also traffic from other publishers in the RAC network. Within the platform, RAC offers a unique set of advertising opportunities for advertisers, including traditional display and pre-roll/mid-roll video advertising in addition to creator sponsorships. Furthermore, the automated technology designed to make creator sponsorship opportunities available to advertisers either programmatically or through direct deals is planned to launch to general availability in 2024, which will be a fully differentiated offering in the market and augment the current manual sales effort for this revenue stream. 2 The continued scale and integration of the Rumble Video, Rumble Studio, and RAC platforms will bring a truly differentiated offering to the market, which is the key to fulfill the Companys vision of providing the best monetization toolkit for creators on the internet. How We Generate Revenue Our portfolio of services enables a diversified set of revenue streams, which includes: Advertising: o Banner / Display Advertising: offered to advertisers via RAC across our network of publishers, including Rumble.com. o Video Pre-Roll / Mid-Roll Advertising: offered to advertisers via RAC across our network of publishers, including Rumble.com, and also through custom integrations into live broadcasts. o Creator Sponsorships: offered to advertisers via RAC programmatically and through direct sales. Subscriptions, Pay-Per-View and Tipping: o Subscriptions: revenue generated from users that subscribe to content creators on Locals.com. o Badge Subscriptions: revenue generated from badge subscriptions purchased by users on Rumble.com. o Pay-Per-View and Tipping: revenue generated from pay-per-view videos offered by creators and tips given by users to creators during livestreams. We share revenue generated from advertising, subscriptions, pay-per-view and tipping with creators in a revenue-share model. Sales & Marketing A vast majority of the substantial user growth experienced by Rumble.com between 2020 and 2022 was organic, driven largely through user and creator advocacy. As a result, very minimal marketing spend was deployed during that time. In 2023, while the organic growth continued, the Company made several investments to bring in new content creators consistent with our goals during the de-SPAC, which in turn attracted new audiences to the platform. Going forward, we will look to build our brand across multiple audiences, driving user growth and video consumption through (1) selective content creator partnerships and advocacy, (2) continued strategies to earn unpaid media coverage and recognition, and (3) increased marketing spend, primarily through digital paid media channels, particularly as advertising revenues increase. Our advertising platform, RAC, is designed as a self-serve platform where advertisers can sign up, build a campaign and bid on traffic leveraging various targeting tactics. As a result, paid marketing strategies will be employed as inventory is released into the network in an effort to attract new advertisers into the system. In parallel to this and other growth strategies, we will make continued investment into direct sales, account management and creator success teams to drive incremental business across display and video advertising, as well as sponsorships. Lastly, for creators, the Company made several direct investments into large creators in 2023. These investments helped attract high-profile creators to the platform given that, at the time, our advertising revenues were minimal and creators earnings on the Rumble Video platform were generally not competitive with the earnings potential offered by the incumbent platforms. With the Company now focused more on growing the advertising business and driving revenue, we believe that creators are now better-positioned to earn money on Rumble, which we believe in turn will bring more content and creators to the platform, thereby yielding more engagement and ultimately driving more advertising revenue. 3 Competition We operate in a challenging and rapidly evolving environment. We compete with other online video distribution platforms, including YouTube, and confront conduct by YouTube and Google that we believe is highly anti-competitive (see Part I, Item 2, Legal Proceedings for further information). We also face significant challenges in obtaining advertising revenue because advertisers have numerous options for allocating their advertising budgets. Rumble Video seeks to compete with other platforms by establishing and maintaining trust with our users, creating an enjoyable viewing experience that welcomes a variety of video content. We seek to operate a neutral video platform in order to meet the challenges presented by Big Tech. Rumble Cloud Origin, Vision, Products and Differentiation After its initial beta phase, Rumble Cloud was launched in Q1 2024, and is an Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) offering designed to service a wide variety of businesses from startups to small and medium sized businesses (SMBs) to enterprise clients. Rumble Cloud was built based on the following key premises: 1) it was existential for us to invest and build out the infrastructure to support Rumble Video and insulate ourselves from arbitrarily enforced terms and conditions and unfavorable economics offered by the incumbent cloud providers, and 2) given the significant amount of compute, storage and bandwidth requirements of Rumble Video, it was a natural extension of the business to offer excess infrastructure capacity to the cloud market. Moreover, we saw an opportunity to capitalize on a product-market fit by specifically addressing the chronic customer pain points in the cloud market, including censorship, trust with data, vendor lock-in strategies, as well as unfair and unpredictable pricing. Backed by our mission to protect a free and open internet, the vision of Rumble Cloud is to empower businesses and allow them to take control of their IT budgets by providing the most predictable and fair pricing model in the cloud market. Rumble Cloud launched and currently operates with the infrastructure and essential computing and storage necessary to run a wide array of workloads and applications, including: Cloud compute; Load balancers; Object storage; Kubernetes orchestration; Block storage; and Virtual private cloud. With Rumble Video as the first anchor tenant of Rumble Cloud, we built our infrastructure from the ground up to run on the latest generation equipment, including 4th generation AMD EPYC processors. In addition to NVMe SSDs, Rumble Cloud virtual machines run atop fully dedicated vCPUs, ensuring fast and consistent performance. 4 How We Generate Revenue Rumble Cloud launched and currently runs on a subscription model. Relative to the unpredictable and volatile consumption-based pricing models that can cripple a business due to rampant hidden and unexpected costs, Rumble Cloud introduced the concept of a Resource Tier pricing model, which is designed to provide a transparent and predictable pricing model to its customers and offers unlimited usage within a given pool of hardware resources for a fixed monthly price. With Rumble Clouds Resource Tiers, customers will have the freedom to grow and scale at a pace that works best for their needs, without surprises on their monthly bill. Sales & Marketing The front end of Rumble Cloud, rumble.cloud, is designed to support a self-serve customer acquisition model. Marketing efforts will be focused on attracting leads and converting through the marketing funnel via traditional paid, earned and owned media strategies. Rumbles video business has cultivated an ecosystem of tens of millions of users and creators. Activating this community is a core piece of our marketing strategy for Rumble Cloud. To complement the self-serve customer acquisition component, we plan to drive demand for Rumble Cloud using a direct sales and channel partner approach. Channel partners will include referral, reseller and managed service partners, who are well positioned to help us expand our mid-market, enterprise and specialty segments. Competition We operate in a challenging environment, with a majority of the cloud services market owned by the major cloud hyperscalers, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Services. These companies have significantly greater resources than us and significant existing customer bases that may be difficult for us to penetrate, especially given the potential for high switching costs in the cloud services market. Given the market trends of rising multi-cloud strategies and continued complexity and unpredictability in cloud pricing, Rumble Cloud arrives at an opportune time to enter the market and present a new way for businesses to save money and regain control of their IT budget. Human Capital We believe that our employees are our most significant resource. As of December 31, 2023, we had 158 full-time employees, of whom 37 were based in Canada and 121 were based in the United States. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Our human capital resources objectives include identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing, and integrating our existing and additional employees. The principal purposes of our equity incentive programs are to attract, retain, and motivate key employees and directors through the granting of stock-based compensation awards. Government Regulation We are subject to domestic and foreign laws that affect companies conducting business on the internet generally, including laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for their operations and the activities of their users. Because we host user-uploaded content, we may be subject to laws concerning such content. In the U.S., we rely, to a significant degree, on laws that limit the liability of online providers for user-uploaded content, including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA) and Section 230. Countries outside the U.S. generally do not provide as robust protections for online providers and may instead regulate such entities to a higher degree. For example, in certain countries, online providers may be liable for hosting certain types of content or may be required to remove such content within a short period of time upon notice. As we expand internationally, we or our customers may also be subject to additional laws that regulate streaming services or online platforms. 5 Because we receive, store and use a substantial amount of information received from or generated by our users, we are also impacted by laws and regulations governing privacy and data security in the U.S. and worldwide. Examples of such regimes include Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). These laws generally regulate the collection, storage, transfer and use of personal information. Because our platform facilitates online payments, including subscription fees and tipping, we are subject to a variety of laws governing online transactions, payment card transactions and the automatic renewal of online agreements. In the U.S., these matters are regulated by, among other things, the federal Restore Online Shoppers Confidence Act (ROSCA) and various state laws. As a U.S.-based company with Canadian operations, we are subject to a variety of Canadian laws governing our foreign operations, as well as Canadian and U.S. laws that restrict trade and certain practices. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property includes trademarks, such as RUMBLE in the United States and Canada, pending international applications to register the trademark RUMBLE, and several pending U.S. trademark applications, including applications for LOCALS, RUMBLE CLOUD, RUMBLE STUDIO, and RAC; the domain names rumble.com and locals.com; copyrights in our source code, website, apps and creative assets; a pending patent application for technology related to Rumble Studio; and trade secrets. In addition, our platforms are powered by a proprietary technology platform. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of work for hire, assignment, and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, and trade secret laws to protect our brands, proprietary technology, and other intellectual property rights. We intend to continue to file additional applications with respect to our intellectual property rights. Acquisitions In October 2021, we bolstered our value proposition for content creators by acquiring Locals, a solution for (1) creators looking to monetize their content through subscription, and (2) for users to gain access to premium content from their favorite content creators. The acquisition was designed to accelerate our subscription revenue model and brought approximately 86,000 subscribers to our platform. Prior to our acquisition of Locals, we did not offer a consumer-facing subscription service. In May 2023, we acquired Callin, a San Francisco-based podcasting and live streaming platform founded by technology entrepreneur and investor David Sacks. Callins technology laid the foundation for Rumble Studio, which was launched in Q1 2024. In October 2023, we acquired North River Project Inc., an entity created to develop what became RAC, an advertising technology solution, specifically for Rumble. RAC includes an advertising marketplace and network between advertisers bidding and publishers selling display and video advertisement as well as advertisers bidding on creator sponsorships. RAC continues to be enhanced and represents a significant milestone in Rumbles monetization efforts. Terms of Service Our content policies, which are available at rumble.com/s/terms, contain politically neutral terms that ensure a safe and respectful exchange of views on the Rumble platform. Among other things, they prohibit content that infringes on the rights of third parties, violates any law, is pornographic or obscene in nature, promotes or supports violence or unlawful acts (including content that promotes or supports Antifa, the KKK, white supremacist groups, and entities designated by the U.S. or Canadian government as terrorist organizations), or exploits minor children (including disclosing personally identifiable information about minor children). 6 Our website address is included in this report for informational purposes only. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not deemed to be incorporated by reference in, and are not considered part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information All periodic and current reports and other filings that we are required to file with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), as amended, are available free of charge from the SECs website (www.sec.gov). Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports (excluding exhibits) may also be obtained free of charge, upon written request to: Rumble Inc., 444 Gulf of Mexico Dr, Longboat Key, Florida 34228. We also post our Code of Ethics on our website. See Part III, Item 10 for more information regarding our Code of Ethics. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other public statements we make are described below. Investors in our securities should carefully consider these risk factors, in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed above under Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in these risk factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may also impair our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are included in Part II of this Form 10-K. Summary of Risk Factors The following summarizes risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the detailed description of each risk factor contained in this section. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: weakened global economic conditions, including the effects of heightened inflation, may affect our business and operating results; our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects; we may not continue to grow or maintain our active user base, and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability; we may fail to maintain adequate operational and financial resources; we may be unsuccessful in attracting new users to our mobile and connected TV offerings; our traffic growth, engagement, and monetization depend upon effective operation within and compatibility with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards, including mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control; our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our content and services on the internet. If we or those who engage with our content experience disruptions in internet service, or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our content and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of traffic and advertisers; we face significant market competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors for traffic and advertising spend, our business and operating results could be harmed; we rely on data from third parties to calculate certain of our performance metrics. Real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business; 7 changes to our existing content and services could fail to attract traffic and advertisers or fail to generate revenue; we derive the majority of our revenue from advertising. The failure to attract new advertisers, the loss of existing advertisers, or the reduction of or failure by existing advertisers to maintain or increase their advertising budgets may adversely affect our business and operating results; we may not be able to maintain relationships with existing publishers through the Rumble Advertising Center (RAC) and may fail to attract new publishers to our network; we depend on third-party vendors, including internet service providers, advertising networks, and data centers, to provide core services; new technologies have been developed that are able to block certain online advertisements or impair our ability to deliver advertising, which could harm our operating results; if our users do not continue to contribute content or their contributions are not perceived as valuable to other users, we may experience a decline in user growth, retention, and engagement on Rumble, Locals or RAC, which could result in the loss of advertisers and revenue; we have offered and intend to continue to offer incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform, and these arrangements may involve fixed payment obligations that are not contingent on actual revenue or performance metrics generated by the applicable content creator but rather are based on our modeled financial projections for that creator, which if not satisfied may adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations and liquidity; we are subject to cybersecurity risks and interruptions or failures in our information technology systems and as we grow and gain recognition, we will likely need to expend additional resources to enhance our protection from such risks. Notwithstanding our efforts, a cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss; spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute, from time to time, to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators and may negatively impact our reputation; our recently launched cloud business may not achieve success, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected; negative media campaigns may adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations, and relationships with our business partners, including content creators and advertisers; 8 our management team has limited experience managing a public company; we collect, store, and process large amounts of user video content and personal information of our users and subscribers. If our security measures are breached, our sites and applications may be perceived as not being secure, traffic and advertisers may curtail or stop viewing our content or using our services, our business and operating results could be harmed, and we could face legal claims from users and subscribers; we may fail to comply with applicable privacy laws; we may be found to have infringed on the intellectual property of others, which could expose us to substantial losses or restrict our operations; we may face liability for hosting a variety of tortious or unlawful materials uploaded by third parties, notwithstanding the liability protections of Section 230; the incentives that we offer to certain content creators may lead to liability based on the actions of those creators; changes in tax rates, changes in tax treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities may adversely impact our financial results; compliance obligations imposed by new privacy laws, laws regulating social media platforms and online speech in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, or industry practices may adversely affect our business and operating results; we may become subject to newly enacted laws and regulations that restrict content on the internet; paid endorsements by our content creators may expose us to regulatory risk, liability, and compliance costs, and, as a result, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; we may face negative publicity for removing, or declining to remove, certain content, regardless of whether such content violated any law; our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has control over key decision making as a result of his control of a majority of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock; our CEO may be incentivized to focus on the short-term share price as a result of his interest in shares placed in escrow and subject to forfeiture pursuant to the terms of the Business Combination Agreement; we have incurred and will incur significant increased expenses and administrative burdens as a public company, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; and substantial future sales of our Class A Common Stock by our current stockholders could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline. 9 Risks Relating to Our Business Weakened global economic conditions, including the effects of heightened inflation, may affect our business and operating results. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. Global financial developments and downturns seemingly unrelated to us or our industry may negatively affect us. The U.S. and other key international economies have been affected from time to time by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, reduced liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, weak economic growth, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, inflation and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. Weak economic conditions or the perception thereof, or significant uncertainty regarding the stability of financial markets related to stock market volatility, inflation, recession, changes in governmental fiscal, monetary and tax policies, among others, could adversely impact our business and operating results. High inflation rates in the U.S. and globally may result in reduced consumer confidence and discretionary spending, decreased demand by advertisers for our products and services, increases in our labor and other operating costs, constrained credit and liquidity, reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets. The Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve has raised, may again raise, or may delay lowering the target federal funds rate in response to concerns over inflation risk. Higher than typical interest rates impact the cost of any borrowing that we may make from time to time and could impact our ability to access the capital markets. Higher than typical interest rates, especially if coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. In an inflationary environment, we may be unable to increase our revenues at or above the rate at which our costs increase, which could negatively impact our operating margins and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In such an environment, in which we also face significant competition from larger and well-capitalized competitors, we may experience rising costs to secure the services of top content creators. We also may experience lower than expected advertising sales, reduced demand for our cloud services offerings, and potential adverse impacts on our competitive position if there is a decrease in consumer spending. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our businesses and prospects or forecast our future results. We are subject to the same risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets. Our financial results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to maintain and grow traffic, content uploads, and engagement; changes made to social media and other platforms, or changes in the patterns of use of those channels by users; our ability to attract and retain advertisers in a particular period; the number of ads shown to our traffic; the pricing of our advertising products; the diversification and growth of revenue sources beyond current advertising products; the development and introduction of new content, products, or services by us or our competitors; increases in marketing, sales, and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; 10 our reliance on key vendor relationships, including our relationship with Cosmic Inc. and Kosmik Development Skopje doo (Cosmic) to provide content moderation and software development services, and dependence on a small number of customer relationships; legislation in Canada, the European Union, or other jurisdictions that forces us to change our content moderation policies and practices or make our platforms unavailable in those jurisdictions; the relative interest shown by the public with respect to news and politics, including fluctuations in such interest before, during and after the traditional U.S. election cycle; the relative popularity with users of the sports leagues, media and political commentators, social media influencers and other personalities with which or with whom we have exclusive contractual arrangements or are otherwise prominently featured on our platform; our ability to maintain gross margins and operating margins; and system failures or breaches of security or privacy. We may not continue to grow or maintain our active user base, may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and may not be able to scale our systems, technology, or infrastructure effectively or grow our business at the same or similar rate as other comparable companies. The growth of our user base, as measured by our current key performance metrics, including monthly active users (MAUs), may not be sustainable and should not be considered indicative of future levels of active viewers and future performance. In addition, we may not realize sufficient revenue to achieve or, if achieved, maintain profitability. As we grow our business, our revenue growth rates may slow or reverse in future periods due to several reasons, which may include slowing demand for our services, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, an inability to scale our systems, technology or infrastructure effectively, and the failure to capitalize on growth opportunities or the maturation of our business. We may incur losses in the future for several reasons, including insufficient growth in the level of engagement, a failure to retain our existing level of engagement, increasing competition, the failure to continue to attract content creators with large followings, the payment of fixed payment obligations to content creators who join our platform that turn out to be unprofitable over the term of the applicable contract as a result of actual performance that does not meet our original modeled financial projections for that creator, the unavailability of certain popular content creators for extended periods of time due to personal or other reasons, as well as other risks described in these Risk Factors, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors. We expect to continue to make investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may not result in increased or sufficient revenue or growth, including relative to other comparable companies, as a result of which we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. If we fail to maintain adequate operational and financial resources, particularly if we continue to grow rapidly, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain high levels of service and customer satisfaction. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we scale our operational, financial, and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures, and expand internationally. As we continue to grow, we face challenges of integrating, developing, training, and motivating a rapidly growing employee base in our various offices in multiple jurisdictions and navigating a complex multinational regulatory landscape. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the functionality of our platforms and solutions, the quality of our products and services may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to attract customers. To manage growth in our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to grow and improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, customer experience, research and development, sales and marketing, administrative, financial, and other resources. 11 We anticipate that significant additional investments will be required to scale our operations and increase productivity, to address the needs of our customers, to further develop and enhance our products and services, including our cloud services business, to expand into new geographic areas and to scale with our overall growth. If additional investments are required due to significant growth, this will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. Users are increasingly using mobile devices and connected TV apps to access content within digital media and adjacent businesses, and if we are unsuccessful in attracting new users to our mobile and connected TV offerings and expanding the capabilities of our content and other offerings with respect to our mobile and connected TV platforms, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends in part on the continued growth in the use of our mobile apps and platforms by our users. The use of mobile technology may not continue to grow at historical rates, users may not continue to use mobile technology to access digital media and adjacent businesses, and monetization rates for content on mobile devices and connected TV apps may be lower than monetization rates on traditional desktop platforms. Further, mobile devices may not be accepted as a viable long-term platform for several reasons, including actual or perceived lack of security of information and possible disruptions of service or connectivity. In addition, traffic on our mobile platforms may not continue to grow if we do not continue to innovate and introduce enhanced products on such platforms, or if users believe that our competitors offer superior mobile products. The growth of traffic on our mobile products may also slow or decline if our mobile applications are no longer compatible with operating systems such as iOS, Android, Windows or the devices they support. If use of our mobile platforms does not continue to grow, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our traffic growth, engagement, and monetization depend upon effective operation within and compatibility with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards, including mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. We make our content available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. We are dependent on the compatibility of our content with popular devices, streaming tools, desktop and mobile operating systems, connected TV systems, web browsers that we do not control, such as Mac OS, Windows, Android, iOS, Chrome and Firefox, and mobile application stores, such as Apples App Store and the Google Play Store. Any changes in such systems, devices or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our content or give preferential treatment to competitive content could adversely affect usage of our content. A significant portion of our traffic accesses our content and services through mobile devices and, as a result, our ability to grow traffic, engagement and advertising revenue is increasingly dependent on our ability to generate revenue from content viewed and engaged with on mobile devices. A key element of our strategy is focusing on mobile apps and connected TV apps, and we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation and support of developing new and innovative mobile and connected TV products, services and apps. We are dependent on the interoperability of our content and our apps with popular mobile operating systems, streaming tools, networks and standards that we do not control, such as the Android and iOS operating systems. We also depend on the availability of the Rumble app on mobile app stores, such as Apples App Store and the Google Play Store, and if our access to such stores is limited or terminated, regardless of the legitimacy of the stated reasons, our ability to reach users through our mobile app will be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in maintaining or developing relationships with key participants in the mobile and connected TV industries or in developing content that operates effectively with these technologies, systems, tools, networks, or standards. Any changes in such systems, or changes in our relationships with mobile operating system partners, handset and connected TV manufacturers, or mobile carriers, or in their terms of service or policies that reduce or eliminate our ability to distribute and monetize our content, impair access to our content by blocking access through mobile devices, make it hard to readily discover, install, update or access our content and apps on mobile devices and connected TVs, limit the effectiveness of advertisements, give preferential treatment to competitive, or their own, content or apps, limit our ability to measure the effectiveness of branded content, or charge fees related to the distribution of our content or apps could adversely affect the consumption and monetization of our content on mobile devices. Additionally our operating expenses will increase if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands. In the event that it is more difficult to access our content or use our apps and services, particularly on mobile devices and connected TVs, or if our users choose not to access our content or use our apps on their mobile devices and connected TVs or choose to use mobile products or connected TVs that do not offer access to our content or our apps, or if the preferences of our traffic require us to increase the number of platforms on which our product is made available to our traffic, our traffic growth, engagement, ad targeting and monetization could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 12 Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our content and services on the internet. If we or those who engage with our content experience disruptions in internet service, or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our content and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of traffic and advertisers. Our products and services depend on the ability of users to access our content and services on the internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. Laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including changes to laws or regulations impacting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products or offerings, increase our operating costs, require us to alter the manner in which we conduct our business and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. We could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. For example, paid prioritization could enable internet service providers, or ISPs, to impose higher fees and otherwise adversely impact our business. Internationally, government regulation concerning the internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be developing or may not exist at all. Within such an environment, without network neutrality regulations, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede both our and our customers domestic and international growth, increase our costs or adversely affect our business. We rely on data from third parties to calculate certain of our performance metrics. Real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We track certain performance metrics, such as our MAUs, based on data from third parties. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable periods of measurement, our third-party providers periodically encounter difficulties in providing accurate data for such metrics as a result of a variety of factors, including human and software errors. We expect these challenges may continue to occur, and potentially to increase as our engagement grows. There are also inherent challenges in measuring usage across our large user base. For example, as further described in our Key Business Metrics section, there is a potential for minor overlap in our usage data due to users who access Rumbles content through the web, our mobile apps, and connected TVs in a given measurement period. Third parties on which we rely for certain of our key metrics may make changes or improvements to their tools and methodologies. For example, starting July 1, 2023, Universal Analytics (UA), Googles analytics platform on which we historically relied for calculating MAUs using company-set parameters, was phased out by Google and ceased processing data. At that time, Google Analytics 4 (GA4) succeeded UA as Googles next-generation analytics platform, which we used to determine MAUs since the third quarter of 2023 and which we expect to continue to use to determine MAUs in future periods. Although Google has disclosed certain information regarding the transition to GA4, Google does not currently make available sufficient information relating to its new GA4 algorithm for us to determine the full effect of the switch from UA to GA4 on our reported MAUs. Because Google has publicly stated that metrics in UA may be more or less similar to metrics in GA4, and that it is not unusual for there to be apparent discrepancies between the two systems, we are unable to determine whether the transition from UA to GA4 has had a positive or negative effect, or the magnitude of such effect, if any, on our reported MAUs. It is therefore possible that MAUs that we reported based on the UA methodology for periods prior to July 1, 2023, cannot be meaningfully compared to MAUs based on the GA4 methodology in subsequent periods. In addition, we rely on third-party service providers to measure our bandwidth consumption, which currently forms the basis for our estimated MWPM. Starting in the second half of the third quarter of 2023, we began moving from third-party service providers content delivery networks (CDNs) to our own proprietary CDN. Based on preliminary testing, our own CDN indicates less bandwidth consumption than one of our service providers CDNs for comparable user activity. Because we calculate estimated MWPM by converting bandwidth consumption into minutes watched, consumption measured through our own CDN yields a lower estimated MWPM than when measured through that service providers CDN. Changes to these tools and methodologies could cause inconsistency between current data and previously reported data, which could raise questions about the usefulness of our reported metrics or make it more difficult for investors to accurately assess our performance over time. If our users, advertisers, partners and stockholders do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, our reputation may be damaged, resulting in material harm to our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 13 We face significant market competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors for traffic and advertising spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. Competition for traffic and engagement with our content, products and services is intense. We compete against many companies to attract and engage traffic, including companies that have greater financial resources and larger user bases, and companies that offer a variety of internet and mobile device-based content, products and services. As a result, our competitors may acquire and engage traffic at the expense of the growth or engagement of our traffic, which would negatively affect our business. We believe that our ability to compete effectively for traffic depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness and reliability of our content compared to that of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our content; the continued expansion and adoption of our content; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to develop new content and enhancements to existing content; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to attract, develop and retain influencers and creative talent; the frequency, relative prominence and appeal of the advertising displayed by us or our competitors; public perceptions about the predominance of certain political viewpoints on our platform, regardless of whether those perceptions are accurate; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory constraints or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate impact on us; our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees; the costs of developing and procuring new content, relative to those of our competitors; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. We also face significant competition for advertiser spend. We compete against online and mobile businesses and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. In determining whether to buy advertising, our advertisers will consider the demand for our content, demographics of our traffic, advertising rates, results observed by advertisers, and alternative advertising options. The increasing number of digital media options available, through social networking tools and news aggregation websites, has expanded consumer choice significantly, resulting in traffic fragmentation and increased competition for advertising. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader content, product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. We will need to continue to innovate and improve the monetization capabilities of our websites and our mobile products in order to remain competitive. We believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting capabilities, and those of our competitors; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to adapt our respective models to the increasing power and significance of influencers to the advertising community; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising content and advertising products, and those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; 14 public perceptions about the predominance of certain political viewpoints on our platform, regardless of whether those perceptions are accurate; the pricing for our advertising products and services relative to those of our competitors; the return our advertisers receive from our advertising products and services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. Our cloud services business competes primarily with large, diversified technology companies that focus on large enterprise customers and provide cloud computing as a component of the suite of services and products that they offer, as well as smaller, niche cloud service providers. Many of our competitors and potential competitors, particularly the larger competitors, have substantial competitive advantages compared to us, including: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; greater resources, including larger sales and marketing and customer support budgets; the ability to bundle products together; larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios; greater resources to make acquisitions and greater resources for technical assistance and customer support. Competitors to our cloud services business may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, and customer requirements. An existing competitor or a potential competitor could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our products and platform capabilities. In addition, some of our actual and potential competitors have been acquired by other larger enterprises and have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships that may provide more comprehensive offerings than they individually had offered or achieve greater economies of scale than we are able to achieve. Changes to our existing content and services could fail to attract traffic and advertisers or fail to generate revenue. We may introduce significant changes to our existing content. The success of our new content depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. If this new content fails to engage traffic and advertisers, we may fail to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may launch (and incur expenses in connection with) strategic initiatives from time to time, which do not directly generate revenue but which we believe will enhance our attractiveness to traffic and advertisers. In the future, we may invest in new content, products, services, and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful or that the costs associated with these efforts will not exceed the revenue generated. If our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing content or enable us to develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. We derive the majority of our revenue from advertising. The failure to attract new advertisers, the loss of existing advertisers, or the reduction of or failure by existing advertisers to maintain or increase their advertising budgets may adversely affect our business and operating results. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, advertising revenue represents 74% and 79% of total revenue. In addition, a substantial portion of our revenue is derived one advertiser accounting for approximately 46% and 45% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As is common in our industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. In addition, many of our advertisers purchase advertising services through one of several large advertising agency holding companies. Our revenue could be harmed by the loss of, or a deterioration in our relationship with, any of our largest advertisers or with any advertising agencies or the holding companies that control them. Advertising agencies and potential new advertisers may view our advertising products and services as experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. Advertisers may cease doing business with us, or they may reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives, including online, mobile, and traditional advertising platforms. Any of the foregoing developments may adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to maintain relationships with existing publishers through RAC and may fail to attract new publishers to our network. Through our RAC marketplace, we provide advertising inventory, including host-read advertisements, to third-party publisher websites in exchange for a portion of the revenues generated by such advertisements. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, if publishers do not believe that advertisements served through RAC generate a competitive return relative to alternative advertising networks, if we are unable to deliver sufficient advertising inventory to publishers, or if our advertising marketplace technology becomes outmoded or outdated. If our relationship with third-party publishers terminates for any reason, or if the commercial terms of our relationships are changed or do not continue to be renewed on favorable terms, we would need to secure and integrate new publishers, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. 15 We depend on third-party vendors, including internet service providers and data centers, to provide core services. Although we are building our own technical infrastructure, we depend on third-party vendors, including internet service providers and data centers to, among other things, provide customer support, develop software, host videos uploaded by our users, transcode videos (compressing a video file and converting it into a standard format optimized for streaming), stream videos to viewers, support our cloud services offerings, and process payments. These vendors provide certain critical services to our technical infrastructure that are time-consuming and costly for us to develop independently. Outages in those services would materially affect our video services and our ability to provide cloud services. Outages may expose us to having to offer credits to subscribers, loss of subscribers, and reputational damage. We are unlikely to be able to fully offset these losses with any credits we might receive from our vendors. Technologies that enable blocking of certain online advertisements, or that otherwise impair our ability to deliver advertising, could harm our operating results. Newly developed technologies could block or obscure the display of or targeting of our content. For example, in June 2020, Apple announced plans to require applications using its mobile operating systems to obtain an end-users permission to track them or access their devices advertising identifier for advertising and advertising measurement purposes, as well as other restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to deliver advertising, which could harm our operating results. Additionally, some providers of consumer mobile devices and web browsers have implemented, or announced plans to implement, means to make it easier for internet users to prevent the placement of cookies or to block other tracking technologies, which could, if widely adopted, result in the use of third-party cookies and other methods of online tracking becoming significantly less effective and have a significant impact on our ability to monetize our user base. Our ability to generate revenue depends on the development and availability of tools to accurately measure the effectiveness of advertisements on our platform. Most advertisers rely on tools that measure the effectiveness of their ad campaigns or that verify viewability of their ads on a platform in order to allocate their advertising spend among various formats and platforms. If we are unable to measure the effectiveness of advertising on our platform or we are unable to convince advertisers that our platform should be part of a larger advertising budget, our ability to increase the demand and pricing of our advertising products and maintain or scale our advertising revenue may be limited. Our tools may be less developed than those of other platforms with which we compete for advertising spend, in particular relative to those platforms that collect more personal information than we do. Therefore, our ability to develop and offer tools that accurately measure the effectiveness of a campaign or verify ad viewability on our platform will be critical to our ability to attract new advertisers and retain, and increase spend from, our existing advertisers. Developing and improving these tools may require significant time and resources and additional investment, and in some cases we rely on third parties to provide data and the technology needed to provide certain measurement or verification data to our advertisers. If we cannot continue to develop and improve our advertising tools in a timely and cost-effective fashion, or if such tools are unreliable, difficult to use, or otherwise unsatisfactory to our advertisers, or if the measurement or verification results are inconsistent with our advertisers goals, our advertising revenue could be negatively impacted, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our cloud services business relies on a small number of key third-party service providers and a small number of customer relationships, the disruption of which could harm our operating results. As we continue to build our recently launched cloud services offerings, we have entered into agreements with certain third-party service providers. The success of our future business activities in the cloud services space may depend upon such existing third-party providers, some of whom may compete with us in other lines of business. If our existing third-party service agreements terminate for any reason, or if the commercial terms of such agreements are changed or do not continue to be renewed on favorable terms, we would need to enter into new third-party service agreements, which could negatively impact our revenues, ability to attract future cloud services customers, public reputation, and profitability. 16 In addition, our initial cloud service offerings revolve around a small number of customer relationships. If we fail to deliver our product to the desired specifications of these initial customers, or if these initial customers terminate their cloud services agreements for any reason, future customers may doubt our ability to offer cloud services, which would negatively impact our revenues, public reputation, and profitability. The loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain our senior officers and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of services of members of our senior management team and the uncertain transition of new members of our senior management team may strain our ability to execute our strategic initiatives, or make it more difficult to retain customers, attract or maintain our capital support, or meet other needs of our business. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain qualified personnel, and we may lose new employees to our competitors before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting them. If we fail to attract new personnel or if we suffer increases in costs or business operations interruptions as a result of a labor dispute, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, we might not be able to operate our business effectively or efficiently, serve our customers properly or maintain the quality of our content and services. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our employees. If our users do not continue to contribute content or their contributions are not perceived as valuable to other users, we may experience a decline in user growth, retention, and engagement on Rumble, Locals or RAC, which could result in the loss of advertisers and revenue. Our success depends on our ability to provide Rumble users with engaging content, which in part depends on the content contributed by our users. If users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute engaging content to Rumble, our user growth, retention, and engagement may decline. That, in turn, may impair our ability to maintain good relationships with our advertisers or to attract new advertisers, which may seriously harm our business and operating results. The loss of a material portion of our existing content creators, or our failure to recruit new content creators, may materially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on our existing content creators, and on the recruiting of new content creators. The loss of a material portion of our existing content creators could result in material harm to our business and results of operations. In the recent past, our ability to recruit and maintain content creators may have been in part due to trends in American politics, where certain commentators have sought a neutral internet platform. A change in such trends, including possible changes to competing platforms moderation policies that make those platforms more hospitable to a diverse range of viewpoints, could result in the loss of existing content creators or a failure to recruit new content creators, which may materially harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, as we expand into international markets, we may fail to recruit new content creators in those markets, limiting our appeal to international audiences. We have offered and intend to continue to offer incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform, and these arrangements may involve fixed payment obligations that are not contingent on actual revenue or performance metrics generated by the applicable content creator but rather are based on our modeled financial projections for that creator, which if not satisfied may adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations and liquidity. Our user base and user engagement growth are directly driven by the content available on our platform. We have and continue to expect to acquire content by providing economic incentives, including minimum guaranteed earnings, to a limited number of content creators, including sports leagues. These incentives have included and may continue to include equity grants and cash payments. This content acquisition strategy is intended to allow us to enter key content verticals and secure top content creators in those verticals before we have full monetization capabilities in place. Our present focus is to grow users and usage consumption and experiment with monetization levers, which may not maximize profitability in the immediate term, but which we believe positions our business for the long term. As of December 31, 2023, we had entered into programming and content agreements with a minimum contractual cash commitment of $106 million. In addition to the minimum contractual cash commitments, we have programming and content agreements that have variable cost arrangements. These future costs are dependent upon many factors and are difficult to anticipate, however, these costs may be substantial. To the extent our revenue and/or user growth assumptions associated with any such creator do not meet our expectations, our financial performance, results of operations and liquidity may be negative impacted, since a failure to achieve these expectations is not expected to reduce our fixed payment obligations to any such creator. 17 In addition, when these programming and content agreements expire, content creators may choose to leave the Rumble video platform in favor of competing platforms, especially if competing platforms offer superior monetization opportunities. The loss of a material portion of our existing content creators could result in reductions to our user base and material harm to our business and results of operations. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions, and such acquisitions could disrupt our operations, and may have an adverse effect on our operating results. In order to expand our business, we have made acquisitions and may continue making similar acquisitions and possibly larger acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. The success of our future growth strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Our past acquisitions and any mergers and acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, personnel, systems, technologies, and products of the companies we acquire; diversion of our managements attention from normal daily operations of our business; our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the acquired businesses; uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; costs related to acquired operations and continuing support and development of acquired products; businesses that we acquire may have greater-than-expected liabilities for which we become responsible; potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to the acquired businesses; adverse tax consequences associated with acquisitions; changes accounting for our acquisitions under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition; potential negative perceptions of our acquisitions by customers, financial markets or investors; failure to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected goals of an acquisition; potential loss of key employees of the companies we acquire; potential security vulnerabilities in acquired products that expose us to additional security risks or delay our ability to integrate the product into our service offerings; difficulties in applying security standards for acquired technology consistent with our other services; ineffective or inadequate controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; inadequate protection of acquired intellectual property rights; and potential failure to achieve the expected benefits on a timely basis or at all. Additionally, acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves or require us to obtain financing. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will experience ownership dilution. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or substantially concurrent acquisitions. 18 We are subject to cybersecurity risks and interruptions or failures in our information technology systems. Notwithstanding our efforts, a cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to support our business. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks, are prevalent and have increased globally in recent years. It is possible that new, escalated or ongoing military conflicts, including the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and Israel-Hamas war, could result in increased cyber-attacks or cybersecurity incidents by state actors or others. Our technologies, systems and networks and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance or vulnerabilities in widely used open source software, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. Like most major social media platforms, Rumble is routinely targeted by cyberattacks that can result in interruptions to our services. We have observed an increase in such attacks as our reach expands and we expect these attacks to continue in the future. As the sophistication of cyber incidents continues to evolve, we are and will likely continue to be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Additionally, any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, usage errors by employees, computer viruses, cyber-attacks or other security breaches or similar events. The failure of any of our information technology systems may cause disruptions in our operations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, and lead to claims related to the disruption of our services from users of the Rumble platform, advertisers, and customers of our cloud services. Spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute, from time to time, to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators and may negatively impact our reputation. Like other major social media platforms, spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute, from time to time, to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators, including reporting of MAUs by Google Analytics, our third-party analytics provider. We also use paid advertising in order to attract users to our platform; however, we cannot be certain that all or substantially all activity that results from such advertising is genuine. Real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We continually seek to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam-generated users and eliminate them from the calculation of our MAUs; however, we will not succeed in identifying and removing all spam. Our recently launched cloud services business may not achieve success, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our recent expansion into the cloud service business may not be successful and involves various risks relating to this business that may negatively affect our operating results, including: our ability to derive an optimal pricing model that enables us to derive sufficient value from our customers while attracting new customers and retaining existing customers; our reliance on third-party providers for data center space and colocation services and on public cloud providers to prevent service disruptions; the intense competition that we face, including from companies with longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have; our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, particularly software and cloud engineers and sales and customer experience personnel; the possibility that we may be unable to maintain and improve our platform performance, especially during peak usage times; the possibility that we may underestimate or overestimate our data center capacity requirements and our capital expenditures on data centers, servers and equipment; our exposure to possible liability and harm to our reputation if the security of our cloud is breached, resulting in the exposure of our customers data, including personal information, to cyber criminals and other nefarious actors; 19 the possibility that we may be unable to maintain the compatibility of our platform with third-party applications that our customers use in their businesses; and our ability to respond to rapid technological changes with new solutions and services offerings. The occurrence of any of these factors, or our inability to successfully mitigate the results of the associated impact, could also damage our reputation, negatively impact our relationship with our customers, and otherwise materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Negative media campaigns may adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations, and relationships with our business partners, including content creators and advertisers. Our commitment to diversity of opinion and refusal to censor content on our platforms has in the past resulted and is likely to continue to result in malicious media campaigns directed against us. For example, our refusal to the request made by a member of the U.K. Parliament in 2023 to demonetize the channel of a specific content creator has led us to be subjected to negative publicity by certain news organizations that are considered to be reputable by some segments of the population. Media campaigns against us may be intended to interfere with our relationships with streaming partners and advertisers. We expect that the proliferation of alternative media, including on our platform, will continue to be viewed as a growing competitive threat by established news organizations, and may result in an escalation, both in frequency and intensity, of negative publicity campaigns against us and our creators. Such campaigns, even if groundless in nature, may result in negative public perception and damage to relationships with our business partners, including content creators and advertisers, which may negatively impact our operating results. Our management team has limited experience managing a public company, which exposes us to additional risks, including the risk that we cannot enhance, maintain, and adhere to our internal