Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 1 Our Portfolio Rumble has two core businesses: 1) Video : consisting of Rumble, our social video platform; Locals Technology Inc. (Locals), our subscription platform; and Rumble Advertising Center (RAC), our in-house advertising platform; and 2) Cloud : a new Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) venture that we are planning to launch. Our Video Business The video business consists of three core products: Rumble, Locals and RAC. The vision of our video business is to provide creators with the best monetization toolkit on the internet. To fulfill this vision, our product roadmap includes the conversion of Rumble, Locals and RAC from three separate products to a single seamlessly integrated platform. Rumble is a free-to-use video sharing platform operated by our Canadian subsidiary, Rumble Canada Inc., on which users can watch, share, like, comment, and upload videos. Users can subscribe to channels to stay in touch with creators and access video on-demand (VOD) and live content streamed by creators. Locals, which we acquired in October 2021, is a platform on which users can purchase subscriptions to access exclusive content in creator communities. Creators and subscribers can engage through VOD, podcasts, live chat, polls, and community discussions. Both Rumble and Locals are available via desktop and mobile web, iOS and Android mobile applications (apps), as well as connected TV apps including, but not limited to Roku, Apple TV, Fire TV and Android TV. RAC is an advertising marketplace, similar to Google AdSense, designed to facilitate transactions for advertisers seeking to advertise on Rumbles platforms as well as publisher platforms with which Rumble has partnerships. In RAC, advertisers can create and set up banner and video campaigns. We also plan on designing RAC to become a marketplace of host-read / sponsorship advertising, which has the potential to provide a significant opportunity for creators to further build their businesses. As of December 31, 2022, RAC was in beta mode during which the system is being tested by a subset of advertisers with a very limited amount of available inventory. The product continues to be enhanced in preparation for an expected commercial launch later in 2023. As we scale and integrate our platforms, we expect to eventually drive significant and differentiated value to advertisers and creators through the development of this independent advertising marketplace. Content creators use Rumble, Locals and RAC to build and monetize their audience through the following: Build your Audience As a free-to-use platform with an average of 80 million MAUs as of December 31, 2022, Rumble is designed to provide creators the ability to grow their audience. Creators can generate revenue on Rumble via programmatic advertisements served by RAC, host-read advertising, or sponsorships managed and facilitated by Rumble sales. Livestreaming creators also can drive revenue via tipping, known as Rumble Rants, through the live-chat functionality. Grow your Super Fans As creators build and establish their brands on Rumble, they have the ability to bring their super fans over to Locals, through which creators can provide exclusive content to paying subscribers. Creators can monetize on Locals via subscriptions, tipping, as well as one-time purchases of content through a feature called Content+. We anticipate further enhancing the value proposition for users, creators, and advertisers as we continue to invest in integrating and enhancing the Rumble, Locals and RAC platforms to provide a seamless experience and fulfill our vision of providing the best monetization toolkit for creators on the internet. 2 In addition, Rumble also obtains exclusive rights to distribute and license certain content on third party platforms, as well as on Rumble and Locals. Our Cloud Business In addition to our video business, we are also planning to launch Rumble Cloud, a new Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) business. We anticipate early demand for our cloud services from businesses that find themselves at risk of cancellation by the incumbent big tech cloud providers, analogous to the initial market opportunity that we realized in our video business. Offering cloud services is a natural extension of our video business, as we can utilize excess capacity from our existing infrastructure. Our Constituents and Engagement We have grown rapidly in the past year with our global MAUs reaching 80 million on average in Q4 2022, an increase of 142% from our 33 million average MAUs achieved in Q4 2021, and with minutes watched per month on our platform increasing from 0.2 billion in Q3 2020 to 11.1 billion in Q4 2022. Since Q1 2022, we have secured top content creators across a diverse set of content verticals and have onboarded content creators such as: Russell Brand Comedian, actor, and podcast host Dana White and Power Slap New sports league founded by the UFC President Steven Crowder Prominent political commentator and comedian Steve Will Do It Well-known influencer within the Gen Z demographic Glenn Greenwald Journalist, author, and lawyer Fresh & Fit Popular late-night podcast within the Gen Z demographic Dave Rubin Host of the Rubin Report Matt Kohrs Cryptocurrency and investing content creator Our goal is to attract even more top creators to our platform, further accelerating our platforms growth, and we have offered and intend to continue to offer incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform. We view expanding our content library and creator base as paramount to attracting more users and driving engagement on our platform. Hours of uploaded video per day were 10,373 on average in Q4 2022, an increase of 216% from Q4 2021. As we bring top creators and their content pipeline to our platform, we believe that we can draw more users onto our platform and keep them engaged for longer, in turn offering better monetization opportunities for creators, and allowing us to bring on more creators. This flywheel effect is the key mechanism by which we are approaching growing our video business. 3 Competitive Strengths Competitive Overview We operate in a highly competitive environment, and the market for video content is rapidly evolving. Traditionally, video content had limitations on how it was distributed to consumers, posing challenges for companies aiming to engage consumers across traditional and digital technologies. Today, video content is consumed across all mediums in various formats, which has both increased the opportunities for consumer engagement and altered the competitive dynamic for new and incumbent players. Further, the market expectation of instant, high-definition delivery and a diversified content offering has altered the strategy and go-to-market approach for even the most successful video platforms. We compete with traditional video distribution platforms, but also with social media networks, entertainment businesses, video on demand providers, major film and television studios, cable/news television networks, and more. What we believe has differentiated Rumble is our ability to quickly establish and maintain trust with our users, creating an enjoyable and open viewing experience that welcomes content of all genres. We take tremendous pride in operating what we view as the go-to neutral video platform in the market, which we believe has allowed us to maintain our competitive positioning versus incumbent platforms. A Significant Market Shift We believe that several market friction points are driving creators and users to seek alternatives to incumbent platforms. Increasingly, household technology names have adopted several principles and behaviors that we believe have opened significant market opportunity for us to establish a lasting relationship with our community. Arbiters of Truth: Big Tech has increasingly adopted strict and evolving content moderation policies on user-generated and other published content. Constant shifting of policies has created controversy among creators and users who may believe their content, or content from other creators, is being restricted by biased practices, policies, and algorithms that have been altered to accommodate evolving trends in the digital ecosystem. This has led users and creators to seek reliable, alternative platforms that would not, outside of clearly defined content guidelines, restrict or shield creators content from reaching their potential audience. Large Creator Focus: Additionally, our biggest competitors are increasingly catering to the large creators that represent individual and corporate accounts, attracting viewers to the content that large creators choose to feature, and creating increasing barriers for smaller creators to distribute content on those platforms. 4 Our Competitive Differentiation We believe that Rumble is uniquely positioned to address the various concerns in the video distribution marketplace. Rumble is one of the few neutral, independent, and scaled video platforms that operates with a consistent and user-friendly moderation policy, employing only reasonable, obvious, and necessary standards of conduct, which are clearly defined. Rumble is unique because we seek to simply distribute the content how and where consumers want it, with no preferential treatment. We have built a differentiated product for both users and creators, which has fueled our recent user growth and, we believe, positions us for further widespread adoption. Value Proposition for Users We aim to allow consumers of our content to see content that they desire, with no preferential treatment for large creators or algorithms that suppress certain viewpoints. We have attracted and retained a global user base on the simple premise that Rumble offers our community the best experience in the market which is the single most important component to our strategy. Our open search algorithm allows our community to access our entire content library within the search function. As our content library continues to expand, this value proposition will only continue to expand opportunities and create an even better experience for the Rumble community. Value Proposition for Creators Many key elements of our value proposition to users also benefit our creators. We are focused on attracting the best talent to the platform and have built tools to facilitate content production, distribution and monetization. Simply put, if a creator uploads quality content, our goal to make sure that this content is seen. This creates favorable monetization opportunities for the best content on the platform and highlights the value of our offering to content creators of all magnitudes. Our offering includes a world-class SDRM (social digital rights management) service for our creators, helping them to manage libraries and ensure maximum efficiency on and off the Rumble platform. This feature further enhances our relationship with our creators and allows us to capture, record and enhance our product through data analytics. As we continue to develop our in-house technology, we expect that our competitive differentiation will extend beyond distribution to infrastructure, offering a similar value proposition to both markets: being a neutral platform built to meet the needs of our community. Our Growth Strategy We are focused on the following areas in an effort to drive our growth: Content Acquisition Our user base and user engagement growth are directly driven by the content available on our platform. We have on-boarded several top content creators onto our platform over the last year which has enabled our significant consumption growth. Our goal is to attract even more top creators to our platform, further accelerating our platforms growth, and we have offered and intend to continue to offer incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform. These incentives have included and may continue to include equity grants or cash payments, including arrangements under which we may agree to pay fixed compensation to content creators (in certain cases, for multiple years) irrespective of whether the actual revenue or user growth generated by the content creator on our platform meets our original modeled financial projections for that creator. 5 Video Product Development Our vision is to offer the best monetization toolkit for creators on the internet. To fulfill this vision, we plan to develop a seamless integration across Rumble, Locals and RAC. In doing so, we strive to unlock full monetization potential across programmatic advertising, host-read ads / sponsorships, tipping, subscription and pay-per-view. We anticipate that realization of this vision will greatly accelerate creator onboarding to the platform, providing incremental value to users and advertisers, and ultimately drive platform consumption and revenue. While we continue to develop new functionality on each component of the platform, we focus on integration that will drive value to users, creators, and advertisers. Cloud Product Development While our Cloud infrastructure services offerings are still in early stages of development, our tentative roadmap includes: video player (player and encoding), networking, storage, and cloud services (secure, sizable compute capacity). We expect Rumble Cloud to enter the beta stage in 2023, during which we will continue to refine our go to market approach and product in preparation for an expected commercial release in 2024. International Expansion Historically, we have focused on growing our U.S. and Canadian user base; any historic consumption from international countries has been purely opportunistic. We anticipate boosting our international expansion once the video product and associated integrations are ready for scale across multiple languages and markets. We believe that there is a significant opportunity for a global expansion of our content, user base and revenue. Marketing and Advertising Users and Creators With the significant organic growth that we experienced to date, most of our marketing efforts have been focused on amplifying earned media and accelerating the word-of-mouth momentum through creator advocacy. As a result, we have been able to build our user base and brand with relatively minimal marketing costs. In the future, we will look to build our brand across multiple audiences, driving user growth and video consumption through (1) content creator partnerships and advocacy, including by offering incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform, (2) continued earned media strategies, and (3) increased marketing spend, primarily through digital paid media channels. Like many other major social media companies, we rely on paid advertising in order to attract users to our platform; however, we cannot be certain that all or substantially all activity that results from such advertising is genuine. Advertisers We currently use several third-party advertisement networks and exchanges to fill our advertisement inventory. By developing our own network, we will be in position to drive our value proposition and expand our advertiser base. In January 2022, we announced the deployment of an alpha version of RAC, our own advertising marketplace. Several advertisers have begun using the new system, and eventually, we plan for all ads on the Rumble platform to be served through this marketplace. We further expect to drive significant and differentiated value to advertisers through the development of this independent advertising marketplace. Human Capital We believe that our employees are our most significant resource. As of December 31, 2022, we had 70 full-time employees, of whom 24 were based in Canada and 46 were based in the United States. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Our human capital resources objectives include identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing, and integrating our existing and additional employees. The principal purposes of our equity incentive plans are to attract, retain, and motivate key employees and directors through the granting of stock-based compensation awards. Competition We compete primarily with companies (many of which are much larger and more well capitalized than us) that also provide video and streaming platforms to content creators, including YouTube, Roku, TikTok, Snapchat and Facebook. We compete with these companies to attract, engage and retain users and subscribers. 6 Government Regulation We are subject to domestic and foreign laws that affect companies conducting business on the internet generally, including laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for their operations and the activities of their users. Because we host user-uploaded content, we may be subject to laws concerning such content. In the U.S., we rely, to a significant degree, on laws that limit the liability of online providers for user-uploaded content, including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA) and Section 230. Countries outside the U.S. generally do not provide as robust protections for online providers and may instead regulate such entities to a higher degree. For example, in certain countries, online providers may be liable for hosting certain types of content or may be required to remove such content within a short period of time upon notice. As we expand internationally, we or our customers may also be subject to laws that regulate streaming services or online platforms, such as the EUs Audiovisual Media Services Directive or EU Regulation 2019/1150, which regulates platform-to-business relations. Because we receive, store and use a substantial amount of information received from or generated by our users, we are also impacted by laws and regulations governing privacy and data security in the U.S. and worldwide. Examples of such regimes include Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). These laws generally regulate the collection, storage, transfer and use of personal information. Because our platform facilitates online payments, including subscription fees and tipping, we are subject to a variety of laws governing online transactions, payment card transactions and the automatic renewal of online agreements. In the U.S., these matters are regulated by, among other things, the federal Restore Online Shoppers Confidence Act (ROSCA) and various state laws. As a U.S.-based company with Canadian operations, we are subject to a variety of foreign laws governing our foreign operations, as well as Canadian and U.S. laws that restrict trade and certain practices. Product Development With relatively limited access to capital for most of the Companys history, our product and engineering teams have worked in an environment based on efficiency and speed with a stringent focus on end-user value. With new access to capital upon consummation of the Business Combination and the ability to scale, it will be critical to maintain this culture as we look to bring new innovations to our users and creators. Infrastructure Guided by our overarching philosophy to technology, our business plan contemplates spending considerable resources and investment on the underlying infrastructure that supports our products, such as building out and networking multiple points of presence (PoPs) and optimizing at a scale of billions of minutes of video consumption on our platform every month to millions of users, which requires significant investments in IT equipment, servers, bandwidth and data centers and data hosting/storage. We have made initial investments in= 2022 and, as our business continues to grow and scale, we expect such investments to grow proportionately over time. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property includes trademarks, such as RUMBLE in the United States and Canada, pending international trademarks for RUMBLE , and a pending U.S. trademark application for LOCALS ; the domain names rumble.com and locals.com ; copyrights in our source code, website, apps and creative assets; and trade secrets. In addition, our platforms are powered by a proprietary technology platform. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of work for hire, assignment, and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, and trade secret laws to protect our brands, proprietary technology, and other intellectual property rights. We intend to continue to file additional applications with respect to our intellectual property rights. 7 Acquisitions In October 2021, we bolstered our value proposition for content creators by acquiring Locals, a solution for (1) creators looking to monetize their content through subscription, and (2) for users to gain access to premium content from their favorite content creators. The acquisition was designed to accelerate our subscription revenue model and brought approximately 86,000 subscribers to our platform. Prior to our acquisition of Locals, we did not offer a consumer-facing subscription service. Facilities We are headquartered in Longboat Key, Florida, and maintain offices in both the United States and Canada. A number of our U.S. employees work remotely. All of our facilities are leased. We believe that our current facilities are adequate to meet our current needs. We intend to procure additional space in the future as we continue to add employees and expand geographically. We also believe that, if we require additional space, we will be able to lease additional facilities on commercially reasonable terms. Terms of Service Our content policies, which are available at rumble.com/s/terms , contain politically neutral terms that ensure a safe and respectful exchange of views on the Rumble platform. Among other things, they prohibit content that infringes on the rights of third parties, violates any law, is pornographic or obscene in nature, promotes or supports violence or unlawful acts (including content that promotes or supports Antifa, the KKK, white supremacist groups, and entities designated by the U.S. or Canadian government as terrorist organizations), or exploits minor children (including disclosing personally identifiable information about minor children). In June 2022, we announced the first phase of an updated content moderation process and released a new set of proposed content policies and removal and appeals process, which are intended to formalize our current practices and procedures and ensure a consistent and transparent process. The proposed policies include (i) automated flagging for copyright infringement and pornographic material, (ii) a manual ad hoc review of other potentially contravening content and (iii) an appeals process by which a creator can appeal the removal of any of its content to a panel of Rumble Quality Control Community Members, consisting of Rumble creators with a proven track record of consistent and active content creation, who are in good standing within the Rumble community, and have a sufficient following on the platform, as determined by Rumble. We have published our proposed content policies and removal and appeals process on our website and are continuing to solicit feedback from our community of creators and other users. We have no obligation to implement any changes to these policies and processes. We initially planned to implement changes in 2022 and now expect to implement any changes by the end of 2023. Our website address is included in this report for informational purposes only. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not deemed to be incorporated by reference in, and are not considered part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information All periodic and current reports and other filings that we are required to file with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), as amended, are available free of charge from the SECs website ( www.sec.gov ). Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports (excluding exhibits) may also be obtained free of charge, upon written request to: Rumble Inc., 444 Gulf of Mexico Dr, Longboat Key, Florida 34228. We also post our Code of Ethics on our website. See Part III, Item 10 for more information regarding our Code of Ethics. 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other public statements we make are described below. Investors in our securities should carefully consider these risk factors, in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed above under Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in these risk factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Business Combination, and may have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may also impair our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are included in Part II of this Form 10-K. Summary of Risk Factors The following summarizes risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the detailed description of each risk factor contained in this section. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: weakened global economic conditions, including the effects of heightened inflation, may affect our business and operating results; our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects; we may not continue to grow or maintain our active user base, and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability; we may fail to maintain adequate operational and financial resources; we may be unsuccessful in attracting new users to our mobile and connected TV offerings; our traffic growth, engagement, and monetization depend upon effective operation within and compatibility with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards, including mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control; our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our content and services on the internet. If we or those who engage with our content experience disruptions in internet service, or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our content and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of traffic and advertisers; we face significant market competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors for traffic and advertising spend, our business and operating results could be harmed; changes to our existing content and services could fail to attract traffic and advertisers or fail to generate revenue; we derive a material portion of our revenue from advertising and its relationships with a small number of key advertising networks and advertisers, the loss of which could materially harm our results of operations; we depend on third-party vendors, including internet service providers, advertising networks, and data centers, to provide core services; new technologies have been developed that are able to block certain online advertisements or impair our ability to serve advertising, which could harm our operating results; if our users do not continue to contribute content or their contributions are not perceived as valuable to other users, we may experience a decline in user growth, retention, and engagement on Rumble, Locals or RAC, which could result in the loss of advertisers and revenue; 9 we have offered and intend to continue to offer incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform, and these arrangements often involve fixed payment obligations that are not contingent on actual revenue or performance metrics generated by the applicable content creator but rather are typically based on our modeled financial projections for that creator, which if not satisfied may adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations and liquidity; we are subject to cybersecurity risks and interruptions or failures in our information technology systems and as we grow and gain recognition, we will likely need to expend additional resources to enhance our protection from such risks. Notwithstanding our efforts, a cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss; spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute, from time to time, to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators; our management team has limited experience managing a public company; we collect, store, and process large amounts of user video content and personal information of our users and subscribers. If our security measures are breached, our sites and applications may be perceived as not being secure, traffic and advertisers may curtail or stop viewing our content or using our services, our business and operating results could be harmed, and we could face legal claims from users and subscribers; we may fail to comply with applicable privacy laws; we may be found to have infringed on the intellectual property of others, which could expose us to substantial losses or restrict our operations; we may face liability for hosting a variety of tortious or unlawful materials uploaded by third parties, notwithstanding the liability protections of Section 230; the incentives that we offer to certain content creators may lead to liability based on the actions of those creators; changes in tax rates, changes in tax treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities may adversely impact our financial results; compliance obligations imposed by new privacy laws, laws regulating social media platforms and online speech in the U.S. and Canada, or industry practices may adversely affect our business; we may face negative publicity for removing, or declining to remove, certain content, regardless of whether such content violated any law; our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) will have control over key decision making as a result of his control of a majority of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock; our CEO may be incentivized to focus on the short-term share price as a result of his interest in shares placed in escrow and subject to forfeiture pursuant to the terms of the Business Combination Agreement; we have incurred and will incur significant increased expenses and administrative burdens as a public company, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; and substantial future sales of our Class A Common Stock by the selling holders named in our recent S-1 registration statement, including by holders subject to lock-up agreements after the expiration of those agreements, could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Weakened global economic conditions, including the effects of heightened inflation, may affect our business and operating results. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. Global financial developments and downturns seemingly unrelated to us or our industry may negatively affect us. The U.S. and other key international economies have been affected from time to time by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, reduced liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, weak economic growth, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, inflation and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. Weak economic conditions or the perception thereof, or significant uncertainty regarding the stability of financial markets related to stock market volatility, inflation, recession, changes in governmental fiscal, monetary and tax policies, among others, could adversely impact our business and operating results. More recently, inflation rates in the U.S. have been higher than in previous years, which may result in reduced consumer confidence and discretionary spending, decreased demand by advertisers for our products and services, increases in our labor and other operating costs, constrained credit and liquidity, reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets. The Federal Reserve has raised, and may again raise, interest rates in response to concerns over inflation risk. Increases in interest rates on credit and debt that would increase the cost of any borrowing that we may make from time to time and could impact our ability to access the capital markets. Increases in interest rates, especially if coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. In an inflationary environment, we may be unable to increase our revenues at or above the rate at which our costs increase, which could negatively impact our operating margins and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In such an environment, in which we also face significant competition from larger and well-capitalized competitors, we may experience rising costs to secure the services of top content creators. We also may experience lower than expected advertising sales and potential adverse impacts on our competitive position if there is a decrease in consumer spending. 10 Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our businesses and prospects or forecast our future results. We are subject to the same risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets. Our financial results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to maintain and grow traffic, content uploads, and engagement; changes made to social media and other platforms, or changes in the patterns of use of those channels by users; our ability to attract and retain advertisers in a particular period; the number of ads shown to our traffic; the pricing of our advertising products; the diversification and growth of revenue sources beyond current advertising products; the development and introduction of new content, products, or services by us or our competitors; increases in marketing, sales, and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; our reliance on key vendor relationships, including our relationship with Cosmic Inc. and Kosmik Development Skopje doo (Cosmic) to provide content moderation and software development services, and dependence on a small number of customer relationships; legislation in Canada, the European Union, or other jurisdictions that forces us to change our content moderation policies and practices or make our platforms unavailable in those jurisdictions; our ability to maintain gross margins and operating margins; and system failures or breaches of security or privacy. We may not continue to grow or maintain our active user base, may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and may not be able to scale our systems, technology, or infrastructure effectively or grow our business at the same or similar rate as other comparable companies. While our key performance metrics, including MAUs and minutes watched per month, have grown in recent periods, this growth rate may not be sustainable and should not be considered indicative of future levels of active viewers and future performance. In addition, Rumble may not realize sufficient revenue to achieve or, if achieved, maintain profitability. As we grow our business, our revenue growth rates may slow or reverse in future periods due to several reasons, which may include slowing demand for our service, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, an inability to scale our systems, technology or infrastructure effectively, and the failure to capitalize on growth opportunities or the maturation of our business. We may incur losses in the future for several reasons, including insufficient growth in the level of engagement, a failure to retain its existing level of engagement, increasing competition, the failure to continue to attract content creators with large followings, the payment of fixed payment obligations to content creators who join our platform that turn out to be unprofitable over the term of the applicable contract as a result of actual performance that does not meet our original modeled financial projections for that creator, as well as other risks described in these Risk Factors , and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors. We expect to continue to make investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may not result in increased or sufficient revenue or growth, including relative to other comparable companies, as a result of which we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. If we fail to maintain adequate operational and financial resources, particularly if we continue to grow rapidly, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain high levels of service and customer satisfaction. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we scale our operational, financial, and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures, and expand internationally. As we continue to grow, we face challenges of integrating, developing, training, and motivating a rapidly growing employee base in our various offices in multiple jurisdictions and navigating a complex multinational regulatory landscape. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the functionality of our platforms and solutions, the quality of our products and services may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to attract customers. 11 To manage growth in our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to grow and improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant drain on our management, customer experience, research and development, sales and marketing, administrative, financial, and other resources. We anticipate that significant additional investments will be required to scale our operations and increase productivity, to address the needs of our customers, to further develop and enhance our products and services, to expand into new geographic areas and to scale with our overall growth. If additional investments are required due to significant growth, this will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. Users are increasingly using mobile devices and connected TV apps to access content within digital media and adjacent businesses, and if we are unsuccessful in attracting new users to our mobile and connected TV offerings and expanding the capabilities of our content and other offerings with respect to our mobile and connected TV platforms, our business could be adversely affected. Our future success depends in part on the continued growth in the use of our mobile apps and platforms by our users. The use of mobile technology may not continue to grow at historical rates, users may not continue to use mobile technology to access digital media and adjacent businesses, and monetization rates for content on mobile devices and connected TV apps may be lower than monetization rates on traditional desktop platforms. Further, mobile devices may not be accepted as a viable long-term platform for several reasons, including actual or perceived lack of security of information and possible disruptions of service or connectivity. In addition, traffic on our mobile platforms may not continue to grow if we do not continue to innovate and introduce enhanced products on such platforms, or if users believe that our competitors offer superior mobile products. The growth of traffic on our mobile products may also slow or decline if our mobile applications are no longer compatible with operating systems such as iOS, Android, Windows or the devices they support. If use of our mobile platforms does not continue to grow, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our traffic growth, engagement, and monetization depend upon effective operation within and compatibility with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards, including mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. We make our content available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. We are dependent on the compatibility of our content with popular devices, streaming tools, desktop and mobile operating systems, connected TV systems, web browsers that we do not control, such as Mac OS, Windows, Android, iOS, Chrome and Firefox, and mobile application stores, such as Apples App Store and the Google Play Store. Any changes in such systems, devices or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our content or give preferential treatment to competitive content could adversely affect usage of our content. 12 A significant portion of our traffic accesses our content and services through mobile devices and, as a result, our ability to grow traffic, engagement and advertising revenue is increasingly dependent on our ability to generate revenue from content viewed and engaged with on mobile devices. A key element of our strategy is focusing on mobile apps and connected TV apps, and we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation and support of developing new and innovative mobile and connected TV products, services and apps. We are dependent on the interoperability of our content and our apps with popular mobile operating systems, streaming tools, networks and standards that we do not control, such as the Android and iOS operating systems. We also depend on the availability of the Rumble app on mobile app stores, such as Apples App Store and the Google Play Store, and if our access to such stores is limited or terminated, regardless of the legitimacy of the stated reasons, our ability to reach users through our mobile app will be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in maintaining or developing relationships with key participants in the mobile and connected TV industries or in developing content that operates effectively with these technologies, systems, tools, networks, or standards. Any changes in such systems, or changes in our relationships with mobile operating system partners, handset and connected TV manufacturers, or mobile carriers, or in their terms of service or policies that reduce or eliminate our ability to distribute and monetize our content, impair access to our content by blocking access through mobile devices, make it hard to readily discover, install, update or access our content and apps on mobile devices and connected TVs, limit the effectiveness of advertisements, give preferential treatment to competitive, or their own, content or apps, limit our ability to measure the effectiveness of branded content, or charge fees related to the distribution of our content or apps could adversely affect the consumption and monetization of our content on mobile devices. Additionally, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. In the event that it is more difficult to access our content or use our apps and services, particularly on mobile devices and connected TVs, or if our users choose not to access our content or use our apps on their mobile devices and connected TVs or choose to use mobile products or connected TVs that do not offer access to our content or our apps, or if the preferences of our traffic require us to increase the number of platforms on which our product is made available to our traffic, our traffic growth, engagement, ad targeting and monetization could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our content and services on the internet. If we or those who engage with our content experience disruptions in internet service, or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our content and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of traffic and advertisers. Our products and services depend on the ability of users to access our content and services on the internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. Laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including changes to laws or regulations impacting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products or offerings, increase our operating costs, require us to alter the manner in which we conduct our business and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. We could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. For example, paid prioritization could enable internet service providers, or ISPs, to impose higher fees and otherwise adversely impact our business. Internationally, government regulation concerning the internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be developing or may not exist at all. Within such an environment, without network neutrality regulations, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede both our and our customers domestic and international growth, increase our costs or adversely affect our business. 13 We face significant market competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors for traffic and advertising spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. Competition for traffic and engagement with our content, products and services is intense. We compete against many companies to attract and engage traffic, including companies that have greater financial resources and larger user bases, and companies that offer a variety of internet and mobile device-based content, products and services. As a result, our competitors may acquire and engage traffic at the expense of the growth or engagement of our traffic, which would negatively affect our business. We believe that our ability to compete effectively for traffic depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness and reliability of our content compared to that of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our content; the continued expansion and adoption of our content; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to develop new content and enhancements to existing content; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to attract, develop and retain influencers and creative talent; the frequency, relative prominence and appeal of the advertising displayed by us or our competitors; public perceptions about the predominance of certain political viewpoints on our platform, regardless of whether those perceptions are accurate; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory constraints or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate impact on us; our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees; the costs of developing and procuring new content, relative to those of our competitors; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. We also face significant competition for advertiser spend. We compete against online and mobile businesses and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. In determining whether to buy advertising, our advertisers will consider the demand for our content, demographics of our traffic, advertising rates, results observed by advertisers, and alternative advertising options. The increasing number of digital media options available, through social networking tools and news aggregation websites, has expanded consumer choice significantly, resulting in traffic fragmentation and increased competition for advertising. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader content, product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. We will need to continue to innovate and improve the monetization capabilities of our websites and our mobile products in order to remain competitive. We believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting capabilities, and those of our competitors; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to adapt our respective models to the increasing power and significance of influencers to the advertising community; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising content and advertising products, and those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; public perceptions about the predominance of certain political viewpoints on our platform, regardless of whether those perceptions are accurate; the pricing for our advertising products and services relative to those of our competitors; the return our advertisers receive from our advertising products and services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. 14 Changes to our existing content and services could fail to attract traffic and advertisers or fail to generate revenue. We may introduce significant changes to our existing content. The success of our new content depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. If this new content fails to engage traffic and advertisers, we may fail to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we have launched and expect to continue to launch strategic initiatives, which do not directly generate revenue but which we believe will enhance our attractiveness to traffic and advertisers. In the future, we may invest in new content, products, services, and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful or that the costs associated with these efforts will not exceed the revenue generated. If our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing content or enable us to develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. We derive a material portion of our revenue from advertisers and their relationships with a small number of key advertising networks and other advertisers, the loss of which could materially harm our results of operations. A material portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of advertisers. External advertising networks and other advertising partners, including publishers that are a part of our advertising network and key sponsors of host-read advertisements, may not continue to do business with us, or they may reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with Rumble will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives. If our relationship with any third-party advertiser terminates for any reason, or if the commercial terms of our relationships are changed or do not continue to be renewed on favorable terms, we would need to secure and integrate new advertising partners or expand the use of our own advertising platform, which could negatively impact its revenues and profitability. We depend on third-party vendors, including internet service providers and data centers, to provide core services. Although we are building our own technical infrastructure, we depend on third-party vendors, including internet service providers and data centers to, among other things, provide customer support, develop software, host videos uploaded by our users, transcode videos (compressing a video file and converting it into a standard format optimized for streaming), stream videos to viewers, and process payments. These vendors provide certain critical services to our technical infrastructure that are time-consuming and costly for us to develop independently. Outages in those services would materially affect our video services and our ability to provide cloud services. Outages may expose us to having to offer credits to subscribers, loss of subscribers, and reputational damage. We are unlikely to be able to fully offset these losses with any credits we might receive from our vendors. Technologies that enable blocking of certain online advertisements or impair our ability to serve advertising, which could harm our operating results. Newly developed technologies could block or obscure the display of or targeting of our content. For example, in June 2020, Apple announced plans to require applications using its mobile operating systems to obtain an end-users permission to track them or access their devices advertising identifier for advertising and advertising measurement purposes, as well as other restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to serve advertising, which could harm our operating results. Additionally, some providers of consumer mobile devices and web browsers have implemented, or announced plans to implement, means to make it easier for internet users to prevent the placement of cookies or to block other tracking technologies, which could, if widely adopted, result in the use of third-party cookies and other methods of online tracking becoming significantly less effective and have a significant impact on our ability to monetize our user base. 15 Our future business activities in the cloud services space may revolve around a small number of key third-party service providers and a small number of customer relationships, the disruption of which could harm our operating results. In order to build our cloud services offerings, we have entered into agreements with certain third-party service providers. The success of our future business activities in the cloud services space may depend upon such existing third-party providers, some of whom may compete with us in other lines of business. If our existing third-party service agreements terminate for any reason, or if the commercial terms of such agreements are changed or do not continue to be renewed on favorable terms, we would need to enter into new third-party service agreements, which could negatively impact our revenues, ability to attract future cloud services customers, public reputation, and profitability. In addition, our initial cloud service offerings revolve around a small number of customer relationships, including our relationship with the Trump Media & Technology Group. If we fail to deliver our product to the desired specifications of these initial customers, or if these initial customers terminate their cloud services agreements for any reason, future customers may doubt our ability to offer cloud services, which would negatively impact our revenues, public reputation, and profitability. The loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain our senior officers and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of services of members of our senior management team and the uncertain transition of new members of our senior management team may strain our ability to execute our strategic initiatives, or make it more difficult to retain customers, attract or maintain our capital support, or meet other needs of our business. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain qualified personnel, and we may lose new employees to our competitors before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting them. If we fail to attract new personnel or if we suffer increases in costs or business operations interruptions as a result of a labor dispute, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, we might not be able to operate our business effectively or efficiently, serve our customers properly or maintain the quality of our content and services. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our employees. If our users do not continue to contribute content or their contributions are not perceived as valuable to other users, we may experience a decline in user growth, retention, and engagement on Rumble, Locals or RAC, which could result in the loss of advertisers and revenue. Our success depends on our ability to provide Rumble users with engaging content, which in part depends on the content contributed by our users. If users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute engaging content to Rumble, our user growth, retention, and engagement may decline. That, in turn, may impair our ability to maintain good relationships with our advertisers or to attract new advertisers, which may seriously harm our business and operating results. The loss of a material portion of our existing content creators, or our failure to recruit new providers, may materially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on our existing content creators, and on the recruiting of new content creators. The loss of a material portion of our existing content creators could result in material harm to our business and results of operations. In the recent past, our ability to recruit and maintain content creators may have been in part due to trends in American politics, where certain commentators have sought a neutral internet platform. A change in such trends, including possible changes to competing platforms moderation policies that make those platforms more hospitable to a diverse range of viewpoints, could result in the loss of existing content creators or a failure to recruit new providers, which may materially harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, as we expand into international markets, we may fail to recruit new content creators in those markets, limiting our appeal to international audiences. 16 We have offered and intend to continue to offer incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform, and these arrangements often involve fixed payment obligations that are not contingent on actual revenue or performance metrics generated by the applicable content creator but rather are typically based on our modeled financial projections for that creator, which if not satisfied may adversely impact our financial performance, results of operations and liquidity. Our user base and user engagement growth are directly driven by the content available on our platform. We recently on-boarded several top content creators onto our platform which has enabled our significant consumption growth. Our goal is to attract even more top creators to our platform, further accelerating our platforms growth, and we have offered and intend to continue to offer incentives, including economic incentives, to content creators to join our platform. These incentives have included and may continue to include equity grants or cash payments, including arrangements under which we may agree to pay fixed compensation to a content creator (in certain cases, for multiple years) irrespective of whether the actual revenue or user growth generated by the applicable content creator on our platform meets our original modeled financial projections for that creator. To the extent our revenue and/or user growth assumptions associated with any such creator does not meet our expectations, our financial performance, results of operations and liquidity may be negative impacted, since the failure to achieve these expectations is not expected to reduce our fixed payment obligations to any such creator. Our recent and rapid growth may not be indicative of future performance. The growth we experienced between late 2020 and 2022 may be partly or largely attributable to increased demand for online video due to social distancing undertaken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and interest in news and politics during the U.S. election cycles in 2020 and 2022. If, when the COVID-19 pandemic ends or if there is less interest in news and politics during future election cycles, then the growth rates that we achieved between late 2020 and early 2022 may not be indicative of growth rates in future periods. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions, and such acquisitions could disrupt our operations, and may have an adverse effect on our operating results. In order to expand our business, we have made acquisitions and may continue making similar acquisitions and possibly larger acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. The success of our future growth strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Our past acquisitions and any mergers and acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, personnel, systems, technologies, and products of the companies we acquire; diversion of our managements attention from normal daily operations of our business; our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the acquired businesses; uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; costs related to acquired operations and continuing support and development of acquired products; businesses that we acquire may have greater-than-expected liabilities for which we become responsible; potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to the acquired businesses; adverse tax consequences associated with acquisitions; changes accounting for our acquisitions under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition; potential negative perceptions of our acquisitions by customers, financial markets or investors; failure to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected goals of an acquisition; potential loss of key employees of the companies we acquire; potential security vulnerabilities in acquired products that expose us to additional security risks or delay our ability to integrate the product into our service offerings; difficulties in applying security standards for acquired technology consistent with our other services; ineffective or inadequate controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; inadequate protection of acquired intellectual property rights; and potential failure to achieve the expected benefits on a timely basis or at all. 17 Additionally, acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves or require us to incur additional debt under our credit agreements or otherwise. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will experience ownership dilution. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or substantially concurrent acquisitions. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and interruptions or failures in our information technology systems. Notwithstanding our efforts, a cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to support our business. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks, are prevalent and have increased, including due to the possibility that the ongoing military conflict in Ukraine could result in increased cyber-attacks or cybersecurity incidents by state actors or others. Our technologies, systems and networks and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance or vulnerabilities in widely used open source software, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. Like most major social media platforms, Rumble is routinely targeted by cyberattacks that can result in interruptions to our services. We have observed an increase in such attacks as our reach expands and we expects these attacks to continue in the future. As the sophistication of cyber incidents continues to evolve, we are and will likely continue to be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Additionally, any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, usage errors by employees, computer viruses, cyber-attacks or other security breaches or similar events. The failure of any of our information technology systems may cause disruptions in our operations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, and lead to claims related to the disruption of our services from users of the Rumble platform, advertisers, and customers of our cloud services. Spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute, from time to time, to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators. Like other major social media platforms, spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute, from time to time, to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators, including reporting of MAUs by our third-party analytics provider. We also use paid advertising in order to attract users to our platform; however, we cannot be certain that all or substantially all activity that results from such advertising is genuine. Real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We continually seek to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam-generated users and eliminate them from the calculation of our MAUs; however, we will not succeed in identifying and removing all spam. Our management team has limited experience managing a public company, which exposes us to additional risks, including the risk that we cannot enhance, maintain, and adhere to our internal