ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Rumble Inc.s (Rumble or the Company) unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements and the related notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the sections titled 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and those discussed in our other filings with the SEC. Additionally, our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in any future period. Amounts are presented in U.S. dollars. Overview We are a high growth video sharing and cloud services provider platform designed to help content creators manage, distribute, and monetize their content by connecting them with brands, publishers, and directly to their subscribers and followers. Our registered office is 444 Gulf of Mexico Drive, Longboat Key, Florida, 34228. Our shares of Class A common stock and warrants are traded on The Nasdaq Global Market (Nasdaq) under the symbols RUM and RUMBW, respectively. Revenues We generate revenues primarily from advertising fees, other services and cloud. Advertising fees are generated by delivering digital video and display advertisements as well as cost-per-message-read advertisements. Digital video and display advertisements are placed on Rumble and third-party publisher websites or mobile applications. Customers pay for advertisements either directly or through relationships with advertising agencies or resellers, based on the number of impressions delivered or the number of actions such as clicks, or purchases taken, by our users. Other services include: subscription fees earned primarily from consumer product offerings such as Locals and badges; revenues generated from content that is licensed by third-parties; pay-per-view; fees from tipping and platform hosting fees. Cloud includes consumption-based fees, subscriptions for infrastructure and professional services. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Companys annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023 (Annual Financial Statements) Expenses Expenses primarily include cost of services, general and administrative, research and development, sales and marketing, acquisition-related transaction costs, amortization and depreciation, and changes in fair value of contingent consideration. The most significant component of our expenses on an ongoing basis are programming and content, service provider costs, and staffing-related costs. We expect to continue to invest substantial resources to support our growth and anticipate that each of the following categories of expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts for the foreseeable future. 21 Cost of Services (Exclusive of Amortization and Depreciation) Cost of services consists of costs related to obtaining, supporting and hosting the Companys product offerings. These costs primarily include: Programming and content costs related to compensation (including share-based compensation) to content providers from whom video and other content are licensed. These costs are paid to these providers based on revenues generated, or in fixed amounts. In certain circumstances, we incur additional costs related to incentivizing top content creators to promote and join our platform; and Other cost of services such as third-party service provider costs, including data center and networking costs, and costs paid to publishers. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll and related expenses, which include bonuses and share-based compensation for our executives and certain other employees. General and administrative expenses also include legal and professional fees, business insurance costs, operating lease costs and other costs. As a public company, we expect to continue to incur material costs related to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including audit and accounting fees, legal, insurance, investor relations and other costs. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of payroll and related expenses, which include bonuses and share-based compensation for our employees on our engineering and development teams. Research and development expenses also include consultant fees related to our development activities to originate, develop and enhance our platforms. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of payroll and related expenses, which include bonuses and share-based compensation for our employees associated with our sales and marketing functions. Sales and marketing expenses also include consultant fees and direct marketing costs related to the promotion of our platforms and solutions. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase over time as we promote our platform and brand, increase marketing activities, and grow domestic and international operations. Amortization and Depreciation Amortization and depreciation represent the recognition of costs of assets used in operations, including property and equipment and intangible assets, over their estimated service lives. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration Certain contingent consideration associated with the Callin acquisition does not meet the criteria for equity classification, and must be recorded as a liability in accordance with guidance contained in ASC 815-40, Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (ASC 815-40). Because the contingent consideration meets the definition of a liability under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815), it is measured at fair value at inception and at each reporting date in accordance with the guidance in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement (ASC 820), with any subsequent changes in fair value recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the applicable period of change. 22 Non-Operating Income and Other Items Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. We invest in highly liquid securities such as money market funds, treasury bills and term deposits. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists of miscellaneous income earned outside of normal company revenue as well as foreign exchange gains and losses on transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability We account for our outstanding warrants in accordance with ASC 815-40, under which the warrants issued in connection with Business Combination do not meet the criteria for equity classification, and must be recorded as liabilities. As these warrants meet the definition of a liability under ASC 815, they are measured at fair value at inception and at each reporting date in accordance with the guidance in ASC 820, with any subsequent changes in fair value recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the applicable period of change. Income and Deferred Tax Recovery (Expense) Income and deferred tax recovery (expense) consists of the estimated federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Key Business Metrics To analyze our business performance, determine financial forecasts and help develop long-term strategic plans, we review the key business metrics described below. Monthly Active Users (MAUs) We use MAUs as a measure of audience engagement to help us understand the volume of users engaged with our content on a monthly basis. MAUs represent the total web, mobile app, and connected TV users of Rumble for each month, which allows us to measure our total user base calculated from data provided by Google, a third-party analytics provider. Google defines active users as the [n]umber of distinct users who visited your website or application.1 We have used the Google analytics systems since we first began publicly reporting MAU statistics, and the resulting data have not been independently verified. As of July 1, 2023, Universal Analytics (UA), Googles analytics platform on which we historically relied for calculating MAUs using company-set parameters, was phased out by Google and ceased processing data. At that time, Google Analytics 4 (GA4) succeeded UA as Googles next-generation analytics platform, which has been used to determine MAUs since the third quarter of 2023 and which we expect to continue to use to determine MAUs in future periods. Although Google has disclosed certain information regarding the transition to GA4,2 Google does not currently make available sufficient information relating to its new GA4 algorithm for us to determine the full effect of the switch from UA to GA4 on our reported MAUs. Because Google has publicly stated that metrics in UA may be more or less similar to metrics in GA4, and that [i]t is not unusual for there to be apparent discrepancies between the two systems,3 we are unable to determine whether the transition from UA to GA4 has had a positive or negative effect, or the magnitude of such effect, if any, on our reported MAUs. It is therefore possible that MAUs that we reported based on the UA methodology (MAUs (UA)) for periods prior to July 1, 2023, cannot be meaningfully compared to MAUs based on the GA4 methodology (MAUs (GA4)) in subsequent periods. 1 Google, [UAGA4] Comparing Metrics: Google Analytics 4 vs. Universal Analytics, https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/11986666#zippy=%2Cin-this-article (last accessed May 13, 2024) (hereinafter: Google, Comparing Metrics.) (providing the technical criteria Google uses to calculate active users). 2 Id. 3 Id. 23 MAUs (GA4) represent the total web, mobile app, and connected TV users of Rumble for each month,4 which allows us to measure our total user base calculated from data provided by Google.5 Connected TV users were not counted within MAUs within MAUs (UA) for periods prior to July 1, 2023, and we believe that the number of such users was immaterial in those prior periods. We also believe that fewer than 1 million MAUs in the current period are from connected TV, making them similarly immaterial. Googles parameters for measuring active users appear to exclude many, but not all, users who access content on Rumble through embedded videos on domains other than rumble.com, and we are unable to determine the exact number of users who access embedded content within our total number of MAUs. In addition, MAUs (GA4) may rely on statistical sampling and may be based on estimates of data that Google is missing due to factors such as cookie consent.6 As with our earlier MAU reporting, there is a potential for minor overlap in the resulting data due to users who access Rumbles content through the web, our mobile apps, and connected TVs in a given measurement period; however, given that we believe this minor overlap to be immaterial, we do not separately track or report unique users as distinct from MAUs. Our reported MAUs do not include users of Locals. We also do not separately report the number of users who register for accounts in any given period, which is different from MAUs. Like many other major social media companies, we rely on significant paid advertising in order to attract users to our platform; however, we cannot be certain that all or substantially all activity that results from such advertising is genuine. Spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators, including reporting of MAUs by Google. We continually seek to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam-generated users, and we eliminate material activity that is substantially likely to be spam from the calculation of our MAUs. We will not, however, succeed in identifying and removing all spam. MAUs (GA4) were 50 million on average in the first quarter of 2024, a decrease of 25% from the fourth quarter of 2023. We believe that the decrease from the fourth quarter of 2023 is attributable to the fourth quarters increased interest in geopolitical events, high profile seasonal sporting events and increased interest in certain Rumble content creators, in each case relative to the first quarter of 2024. 4 During the measurement period, Rumble was available on the following connected TV systems: Roku, Android TV, Amazon Fire, LG, and Samsung TVs. 5 Google provides additional information on its definition of an active user, see Google, Comparing Metrics. 6 According to the GA4 dashboard, [a]s of August 26, 2023, Analytics is estimating data thats missing due to factors such as cookie consent. 24 Estimated Minutes Watched Per Month (MWPM) We use estimated MWPM as a measure of audience engagement to help us understand the volume of users engaged with our content on a monthly basis and the intensity of users engagement with the platform. Estimated MWPM represents the monthly average of minutes watched per user within a quarterly period, which helps us measure user engagement. Estimated MWPM is calculated by converting actual bandwidth consumption into minutes watched, using our managements best estimate of video resolution quality mix and various encoding parameters. We continually seek to improve our best estimates based on our observations of creator and user behavior on the Rumble platform, which changes based on the introduction of new product features, including livestreaming. We are currently limited, however, in our ability to collect data from certain aspects of our systems. These limits may result in errors that are difficult to quantify, especially as the proportion of livestreaming on the Rumble platform increases over time, and as we improve the quality of various video formats by increasing bit rates. Bandwidth consumption includes video traffic across the entire Rumble platform (website, apps, embedded video, connected TV, RAC, etc.). In addition, our management believes bandwidth consumption includes a nominal amount of non-video traffic on the Rumble and Locals platforms and a potentially significant amount of consumption of Rumble videos outside of the Rumble video player and Rumble apps, due in part to intentional user circumvention of the Rumble platform that, despite our continuous efforts, we are unable to eliminate. Combined, the bandwidth consumption for this traffic may be material and difficult to quantify, resulting in an inability for us to monetize a potentially significant portion of our estimated MWPM. Estimated MWPM was 8.6 billion on average in the first quarter of 2024, a decrease of 18% from the fourth quarter of 2023. We believe that the decline from the fourth quarter of 2023 was due to the majority of our bandwidth consumption moving from third-party service providers content delivery networks (CDNs) to our own proprietary CDN. Based on preliminary testing, our own CDN indicates less bandwidth consumption than one of our service providers CDNs for comparable user activity. Because we calculate estimated MWPM by converting bandwidth consumption into minutes watched, consumption measured through our own CDN yields a lower estimated MWPM than when measured through that service providers CDN. 25 Hours of Uploaded Video Per Day We use the amount of hours of uploaded video per day as a measure of content creation to help us understand the volume of content being created and uploaded to us on a daily basis. Hours of uploaded video per day were 12,429 on average in the first quarter of 2024, representing an increase of 11% from the first quarter of 2023 and a decrease of 1% from the fourth quarter of 2023. As previously disclosed, we believe hours of uploaded video per day have been depressed by YouTubes decision in the fourth quarter of 2023 to disable the ability of its users to utilize our tool that automatically imports videos from creators YouTube channels to their Rumble channels, commonly known as the YouTube sync tool. We provided additional information about this issue in a current report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on January 16, 2024. We regularly review, have adjusted in the past, and may in the future adjust our processes for calculating our key business metrics to improve their accuracy, including through the application of new data or technologies or product changes that may allow us to identify previously undetected spam activity. As a result of such adjustments, our key business metrics may not be comparable period-over-period. Given our focus on monetization of our user base in 2024, we plan to disaggregate our revenue into additional categories later in the year. We also plan to introduce a new key business metric, Average Revenue Per User (ARPU), for certain revenue categories later in 2024. We believe this ARPU measurement best reflects the focus of our management team, and, accordingly, over time we intend to phase out the reporting of estimated MWPM and hours of uploaded videos per day. 26 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated interim statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 and the dollar and percentage change between the two periods: For the three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 Variance ($) Variance (%) Revenues $ 17,733,456 $ 17,615,375 $ 118,081 1 % Expenses Cost of services (content, hosting and other) $ 31,828,354 $ 26,014,365 $ 5,813,989 22 % General and administrative 9,322,379 8,595,096 727,283 8 % Research and development 4,527,792 2,617,659 1,910,133 73 % Sales and marketing 3,296,742 3,335,565 (38,823 ) (1 )% Amortization and depreciation 2,426,142 681,074 1,745,068 256 % Changes in fair value of contingent consideration 1,336,589 - 1,336,589 *NM Total expenses 52,737,998 41,243,759 11,494,239 28 % Loss from operations (35,004,542 ) (23,628,384 ) (11,376,158 ) 48 % Interest income 2,521,952 3,307,927 (785,975 ) (24 )% Other expense (69,708 ) (15,906 ) (53,802 ) 338 % Change in fair value of warrant liability (10,737,895 ) (8,331,750 ) (2,406,145 ) 29 % Loss before income taxes (43,290,193 ) (28,668,113 ) (14,622,080 ) 51 % Income tax recovery 153 - 153 *NM Net loss $ (43,290,040 ) $ (28,668,113 ) $ (14,621,927 ) 51 % * NM- Percentage change not meaningful. Revenues Revenues increased by $0.1 million to $17.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, of which $3.2 million is attributable to higher other services and cloud, offset by a decrease in advertising revenues of $3.1 million. The increase in revenue from other services and cloud was driven mainly by subscriptions, tipping features, and cloud services offered. The decrease in advertising revenue was due to volatility inherent in a small number of creators and manual processes associated with sponsorship revenues. 27 Cost of Services Cost of services increased by $5.8 million to $31.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due to an increase in programming and content costs of $5.3 million, hosting expenses of $0.1 million, and other service costs of $0.4 million. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $0.7 million to $9.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due to an increase in payroll and related expense of $0.1 million and share-based compensation of $2.3 million, offset in part by a $1.7 million decrease in other administrative expenses. The $2.3 million increase in share-based compensation was related to the recognition of contingent shares issued in connection with the Callin acquisition that were accounted for as a post-combination expense as well as the expense of previously and newly granted restricted stock units and stock options for certain employees and executives. The remaining $1.6 million decrease in other administrative expenses was mainly driven by public company-related costs, including accounting, legal, investor relations, insurance, and other administrative services. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased by $1.9 million to $4.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due to an increase in payroll and related expenses of $1.6 million, as well as a $0.3 million increase in costs related to computer hardware, software, and other expenses used in research and development related activity. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $39.0 thousand to $3.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due to a slight reduction in marketing and public relations activities, offset in part by an increase in payroll and related expenses and consulting services. Amortization and Depreciation Amortization and depreciation increased by $1.7 million to $2.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due to an increase of $0.6 million from depreciation on our property and equipment as we continue to build out our infrastructure as well as an increase in amortization from intangible assets of $1.1 million. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration Change in fair value of contingent consideration increased by $1.3 million resulting in a loss of $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The contingent consideration liability arose in connection with the Callin acquisition and the fair value of this contingent consideration was measured using the fair value of the expected number of shares to be issued and Companys share price at closing. The loss from the change in fair value of contingent consideration was directly attributable to changes in the Companys share price since the closing. 28 Interest Income Interest income decreased by $0.8 million to $2.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due to the fact that the Company invested less in money market funds, treasury bills, and term deposits. Other Expense Other expense increased by $54.0 thousand to $70.0 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability Change in fair value of warrant liability decreased by $2.4 million resulting in a loss of $10.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024. The warrant liability arose in connection with the warrants offered as part of the Business Combination. As these warrants meet the classification of a financial liability in accordance with ASC 815-40, the related warrant liability is measured at its fair value, determined in accordance with ASC 820, at each reporting period. The fair value of this warrant liability was measured using the fair value of the Companys warrants listed on the Nasdaq. The decrease in the change in fair value of warrant liability is directly attributable to changes in the trading price of Rumbles warrants. Income Tax Recovery Income tax recovery increased by $153 to $153 in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since the completion of our Business Combination in September 2022, we have financed operations primarily through cash generated from operating activities and the funds raised from our Business Combination. The primary short-term requirements for liquidity and capital are to fund general working capital and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2024, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balance was $183.8 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities consist of cash on deposit with banks and amounts held in money market funds, treasury bills, and term deposits. As we have consistently stated, we are using a substantial portion of funds to acquire content by providing economic incentives to a small number of content creators, including sports leagues. As of March 31, 2024, we had entered into programming and content agreements with a minimum contractual cash commitment of $76 million. A significant amount of these minimum contractual cash commitments will be paid over 12 to 36 months, commencing in 2024. In addition to the minimum contractual cash commitments, we have programming and content agreements that have variable cost arrangements. These future costs are dependent upon many factors and are difficult to anticipate, however, these costs may be substantial. The following table presents a summary of the condensed consolidated interim statement of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three months ended March 31, Net cash provided by (used in): 2024 2023 Variance ($) Operating activities $ (33,856,535 ) $ (9,979,001 ) $ (23,877,534 ) Investing activities (1,782,428 ) (1,985,636 ) 203,208 29 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily consisted of net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including a $12.1 million loss on the change in fair value of warrants and contingent consideration, partially offset by a $4.8 million changes in share-based compensation, $2.7 million changes in amortization and depreciation as well as changes in operating assets and liabilities. The increase in net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 was mostly due to an increase in expenses partially offset by changes in revenue and operating assets and liabilities. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 consisted of $1.8 million in purchases of property, equipment, and intangible assets. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 was mostly due to a decrease in purchases of property, equipment, and intangible assets. Summary of Quarterly Results Information for the most recent quarters presented are as follows: Mar 31, 2024 Dec 31, 2023 Sep 30, 2023 Jun 30, 2023 Total revenue $ 17,733,456 $ 20,391,872 $ 17,982,150 $ 24,974,054 Net loss $ (43,290,040 ) $ (29,277,227 ) $ (29,021,042 ) $ (29,454,080 ) Mar 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Sep 30, 2022 Jun 30, 2022 Total revenue $ 17,615,375 $ 19,957,025 $ 10,983,182 $ 4,399,312 Net loss $ (28,668,113 ) $ (944,668 ) $ (1,858,452 ) $ (4,688,680 ) Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated interim financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (US GAAP). The preparation of condensed consolidated interim financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the following key accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated interim financial statements. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, we believe that these are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. For further information on the summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our condensed consolidated interim financial statements, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Annual Financial Statements. 30 Acquisitions (Business Combination vs Asset Acquisition) The Company evaluates whether acquired net assets should be accounted for as a business combination or an asset acquisition by first applying a screen test to determine whether substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets. If so, the transaction is accounted for as an asset acquisition. If not, the Company applies its judgment to determine whether the acquired net assets meets the definition of a business by considering if the set includes an acquired input, process, and the ability to create outputs. Valuation of Intangible Assets The Company acquired intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of Callin and North River. A valuation was performed to determine the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets related to the acquisition. Judgment is required to estimate the fair value of these identifiable intangible assets. We may use quoted market prices, prices for similar assets, present value techniques, and other valuation techniques such as the depreciated replacement cost and relief from royalty methods to prepare these estimates. We may need to make estimates of future cash flows and discount rates as well as other assumptions in order to implement these valuation techniques. Due to the degree of judgment involved in our estimation techniques, our estimate may result in significant difference in the estimation of fair value. Share-based Compensation The Company issues equity awards such as stock options and restricted stock units to certain of its employees, directors, officers and consultants. We account for equity awards by recognizing the fair value of share-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of the award. For equity awards with a service condition, the fair value is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model which takes into account the following inputs: stock price, expected term, volatility, and risk-free interest rate. For equity awards with a market condition, the fair value is estimated on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology that includes simulating the stock price using a risk-neutral Geometric Brownian Motion-based pricing model. Changes in the estimated inputs or using other option valuation methods may result in materially different option values and share-based compensation expense. For equity awards with a performance condition, the Company assesses the likelihood of the performance condition underlying an award being met and recognizes a share-based compensation expense associated with that award only if it is probable the performance condition will be met. Where the performance condition underlying an award is a change in control, the Company considers the performance condition to be probable only when it occurs. Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles and complex tax laws. Uncertain tax positions are accounted for using a comprehensive model for the manner in which a company should recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial statements all material uncertain income tax positions. The Company reviews its nexus in various tax jurisdictions and the Companys tax positions related to all open tax years for events that could change the status of its tax liability, if any, or require an additional liability to be recorded. Such events may be the resolution of issues raised by a taxing authority, expiration of the statute of limitations for a prior open tax year or new transactions for which a tax position may be deemed to be uncertain. Those positions, for which managements assessment is that there is more than a 50 percent probability of sustaining the position upon challenge by a taxing authority based upon its technical merits, are subjected to the measurement criteria. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Annual Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. 31 JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We intend to elect to adopt new or revised accounting standards under private company adoption timelines. Accordingly, the timing of our adoption of new or revised accounting standards will not be the same as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies or that have opted out of using such extended transition period and our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of public companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards.