Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to CF Acquisition Corp. VI. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in Delaware on April 17, 2020 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Initial Business Combination). Our sponsor is CFAC Holdings VI, LLC (the Sponsor). Although we are not limited in our search for target businesses to a particular industry or sector for the purpose of consummating the Initial Business Combination, we are focusing our search on companies operating in the financial services, healthcare, real estate services, technology and software industries. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. Our registration statement for our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) was declared effective on February 18, 2021. On February 23, 2021, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 30,000,000 units (each, a Unit and with respect to the shares of Class A common stock included in the Units sold, the Public Shares), at a purchase price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $300,000,000. Each Unit consists of one share of Class A common stock and one-fourth of one redeemable warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50. Each warrant will become exercisable on the later of 30 days after the completion of the Initial Business Combination or February 23, 2022 (12 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering) and will expire 5 years after the completion of the Initial Business Combination, or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 700,000 Units (the Private Placement Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Unit to the Sponsor in a private placement (the Private Placement), generating gross proceeds of $7,000,000. Following the closing of the Initial Public Offering and sale of the Private Placement Units on February 23, 2021, an amount of $300,000,000 ($10.00 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Units was placed in a trust account (the Trust Account) located in the United States at UMB Bank, N.A., with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, which may be invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by us meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3) and (d)(4) of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of the Initial Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account, as described below. 20 We have until February 23, 2023 (24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering), or a later date approved by our stockholders in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Combination Period). If we are unable to complete the Initial Business Combination by the end of the Combination Period, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish our public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions with respect to our warrants, which will expire worthless if we fail to complete the Initial Business Combination within the Combination Period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of both September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had $25,000 of cash in our operating account. As of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $1,013,000 and $157,000, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021, we had $7,563 and $15,536, respectively, in interest income in the Trust Account available to pay taxes (less up to $100,000 of such net interest to pay dissolution expenses). Our liquidity needs through September 30, 2021 have been satisfied through a contribution of $25,000 from the Sponsor in exchange for the issuance of the founder shares, a loan of approximately $151,000 from the Sponsor pursuant to a promissory note (the Pre-IPO Note), the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement with the Sponsor not held in the Trust Account, and the Sponsor Loan (as defined below). We fully repaid the Pre-IPO Note upon completion of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with the Initial Business Combination, our Sponsor has committed up to $1,750,000 to be provided to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements after the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Initial Business Combination (the Sponsor Loan). If the Sponsor Loan is insufficient, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us additional loans. As of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, there was approximately $911,000 and $0, respectively, outstanding under the Sponsor Loan. Based on the foregoing, management believes that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from the Sponsor to meet our needs through the earlier of the consummation of the Initial Business Combination or one year from the date of this Report. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective target businesses, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Initial Business Combination. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception through September 30, 2021 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, toward locating and completing a suitable Initial Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our Initial Business Combination. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on investments held in the Trust Account. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. 21 For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had net income of approximately $863,000, which consisted of approximately $1,151,000 of gain from the change in fair value of the warrant liability, approximately $378,000 of gain from the change in fair value of the FPS liability, and approximately $8,000 of interest income on investments held in the Trust Account, which were partially offset by approximately $589,000 in general and administrative expenses, approximately $55,000 of franchise tax expense and $30,000 in administrative expenses paid to the Sponsor. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, we incurred a net loss of approximately $509,000, which consisted of approximately $2,646,000 of loss from the change in fair value of the FPS liability, approximately $1,056,000 in general and administrative expenses, approximately $147,000 of franchise tax expense, and approximately $72,000 in administrative expenses paid to the Sponsor, which were partially offset by approximately $3,396,000 of gain from the change in fair value of the warrant liability, and approximately $16,000 of interest income on investments held in the Trust Account. Contractual Obligations Business Combination Marketing Agreement We engaged Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. (CF&Co.), an affiliate of the Sponsor, as an advisor in connection with the Initial Business Combination to assist us in holding meetings with our stockholders to discuss the Initial Business Combination and the target business attributes, introduce us to potential investors that are interested in purchasing our securities, assist us in obtaining stockholder approval for the Initial Business Combination and assist us with our press releases and public filings in connection with the Initial Business Combination. We will pay CF&Co. a cash fee for such services upon the consummation of the Initial Business Combination in an amount of $10,500,000, which is equal to 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Initial Public Offering. Related Party Loans In order to finance transaction costs in connection with an intended Initial Business Combination, the Sponsor has committed up to $1,750,000 in the Sponsor Loan to be provided to us to fund expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, including $10,000 per month for office space, administrative and shared personnel support services that will be paid to the Sponsor, after the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Initial Business Combination. As of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had borrowed approximately $911,000 and $0, respectively, under the Sponsor Loan. The Sponsor pays expenses on our behalf. We reimburse the Sponsor for such expenses paid on our behalf. As of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had accounts payable outstanding to the Sponsor for such expenses paid on our behalf of $0 and approximately $106,000, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the following as our critical accounting polices: Use of Estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the unaudited condensed financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, our unaudited condensed balance sheets, unaudited condensed statements of operations and unaudited condensed statements of cash flows could be materially affected. We believe that the following accounting policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Emerging Growth Company Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. 22 Warrant and Forward Purchase Securities Liability We account for our outstanding public warrants and private placement warrants and the securities underlying the forward purchase agreement with the Sponsor (the FPA and such securities, the FPS) in accordance with guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 815-40, Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entitys Own Equity , under which the warrants and FPS do not meet the criteria for equity classification and must be recorded as liabilities. As both the public and private placement warrants and FPS meet the definition of a derivative under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, they are measured at fair value at inception and at each reporting date in accordance with the guidance in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement , with any subsequent changes in fair value recognized in the statement of operations in the period of change. Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity . Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Shares of conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including shares of Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, shares of Class A common stock are classified as stockholders equity. All of the Public Shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, 30,000,000 and 0 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption, respectively, are presented as temporary equity outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet. We recognize any subsequent changes in redemption value immediately as they occur and adjust the carrying value of redeemable Class A common stock to the redemption value at the end of each reporting period. Immediately upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we recognized the accretion from initial book value to redemption amount value of redeemable Class A common stock. The change in the carrying value of redeemable Class A common stock also resulted in charges against Additional paid-in capital and Accumulated deficit. Net Income (Loss) Per Share of Common Stock We comply with the accounting and disclosure requirements of ASC 260, Earnings Per Share . Net income (loss) per share of common stock is computed by dividing net income (loss) applicable to stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the applicable periods. We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Accretion associated with the redeemable shares of Class A common stock is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. We have not considered the effect of the warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,675,000 shares of Class A common stock sold in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted earnings per share of common stock is the same as basic earnings per share of common stock for the periods presented. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K and did not have any commitments or contractual obligations. 23 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements.