ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements and the related notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the sections titled 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and those discussed in our other filings with the SEC. Additionally, our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in any future period. Amounts are presented in U.S. dollars. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, Rumble and the Company refer to the business and operations of Rumble Canada Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination and to Rumble Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Business Combination. Overview We are a high growth, video sharing platform designed to help content creators manage, distribute, and monetize their content by connecting them with brands, publishers, and directly to their subscribers and followers. Our registered office is 444 Gulf of Mexico Drive, Longboat Key, Florida, 34228. Our shares of Class A common stock and warrants are traded on The Nasdaq Global Market (Nasdaq) under the symbols RUM and RUMBW, respectively. Significant Events and Transactions As previously announced, on December 1, 2021, CF Acquisition Corp. VI, a Delaware corporation (CFVI), and Rumble Inc., a corporation formed under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada (Legacy Rumble), entered into a business combination agreement (the Business Combination). On September 16, 2022, CFVI and Legacy Rumble consummated the business combination contemplated by the business combination agreement. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, CFVI changed its name from CF Acquisition Corp. VI to Rumble Inc. and Legacy Rumble changed its name from Rumble Inc. to Rumble Canada Inc. Refer to Note 2, Significant Events and Transactions, to the Companys annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2022 (Annual Financial Statements) Revenues We generate revenues primarily from advertising and licensing fees. The revenues are generated by delivering content either via our own or third-party platforms. As with the past two years, our focus remains on growing users and usage consumption and not maximizing revenue while continuing to experiment with various levers to grow revenue. Advertising fees are generated by delivering both display advertisements and cost-per-message-read advertisements. Display advertisements are placed on Rumble and third-party publisher websites or mobile applications. Customers pay for advertisements either directly or through relationships with advertising agencies or resellers, based on the number of impressions delivered or the number of actions such as clicks, or purchases taken, by our users. We recognize revenue from display advertisements when a user engages with the advertisement, through an impression, click, or purchase. For cost-per-message-read advertising, customers pay to have their products or services promoted by a content creator and advertising revenue is recognized when the performance obligation is fulfilled, usually when the message is read. 19 Licensing fees are charged on a per video or on a flat-fee per month basis. Licensing fee revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied in line with the nature of the intellectual property being licensed. Other revenues include fees earned from tipping features within the Companys platform as well as certain cloud, subscription, platform hosting and professional services. Fees from tipping features are recognized at a point in time when a user tips on the platform. Both cloud and subscription services are recognized over time for the duration of the contract. Revenues related to platform hosting are recognized over time as the Company provides access to the platform. Professional service revenues have stand-alone functionality to the customer and are recognized at a point in time as services are provided or earned. Refer to Note 3, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Annual Financial Statements. Expenses Expenses primarily include cost of services, general and administrative, research and development, sales and marketing, finance costs, share-based compensation, foreign exchange gain or loss, and amortization and depreciation. The most significant component of our expenses on an ongoing basis are programming and content, service provider costs, and staffing-related costs. We expect to continue to invest substantial resources to support our growth and anticipate that each of the following categories of expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts for the foreseeable future. Cost of Services Cost of services consists of costs related to obtaining, supporting and hosting the Companys product offerings. These costs primarily include: Programming and content costs related to payments to content providers from whom video and other content are licensed. These costs are paid to these providers based on revenues generated, or in fixed amounts. In certain circumstances, we incur additional costs related to incentivizing top content creators to promote and join our platform. Other cost of services include third-party service provider costs such as data center and networking, staffing costs directly related to professional services fees, and costs paid to publishers. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits and bonuses related to our executives, finance team, and administrative employees. It also includes legal and professional fees, business insurance costs, operating lease costs and other costs. As a public company, we expect to continue to incur additional costs related to compliance with applicable securities and other regulations including audit and accounting fees, legal, insurance, investor relations and other costs. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, employee benefits, employee bonuses and consultant fees related to our development activities to originate, develop and enhance our platforms. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs related to salaries, employee benefits, employee bonuses, consultant fees, direct marketing costs related to the promotion of our platforms/solutions. Sales and marketing expenses are expected to increase over time as we promote our platform, increase marketing activities, grow domestic and international operations, and continues to build brand awareness. 20 Finance Costs Finance costs consist of transaction expenses related to the Business Combination and other financing rounds. Share-based Compensation Expenses Share-based compensation expenses consist of the recognition of expense for equity awards such as restricted stock units and/ or stock options that are subject to certain performance or service conditions. Foreign Exchange Gains and Losses Foreign exchange gains and losses relates to gains and losses on transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar that are remeasured using the end-of-period exchange rates or exchanges rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Amortization and Depreciation Amortization and depreciation represents the recognition of costs of assets used in operations, including capital assets and intangible assets, over their estimated service lives. Non-Operating Income and Other Items Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. We invest in highly liquid securities such as money market funds, treasury bills and term deposits. Share of Profit from Joint Venture Share of profit from joint venture consists of the profits earned from a 30% membership interest in a joint venture based in Florida, USA named Liberatio Special Ventures LLC (Liberatio). Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability We account for our outstanding warrants in accordance with guidance contained in ASC 815-40, Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (ASC 815-40), under which the warrants issued in connection with the public offerings, private placements, and forward purchase contract (FPA) entered into with CFAC Holdings VI, LLC (such contract, the FPA) do not meet the criteria for equity classification, and must be recorded as liabilities. As these warrants meet the definition of a liability under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815), they are measured at fair value at inception and each reporting date in accordance with the guidance in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement (ASC 820), with any subsequent changes in fair value recognized in the statement of operations in the period of change. Income Tax Recovery (Expense) Income tax recovery (expense) consists of changes in our deferred tax assets and current income taxes. 21 Key Business Metrics To analyze our business performance, determine financial forecasts and help develop long-term strategic plans, we review the key business metrics described below. Monthly Active Users (MAUs) We use MAUs as a measure of audience engagement to help us understand the volume of users engaged with our content on a monthly basis. MAUs represent the total web and app users of Rumble for each month, which allows us to measure our total user base calculated from data provided by Google, a third-party analytics provider, using company-set parameters such as excluding users who access content on Rumble through embedded videos on domains other than rumble.com. We have used Google Analytics since we first began publicly reporting MAU statistics, and the resulting data have not been independently verified. There is a potential for minor overlap in the resulting data due to users who access Rumbles content from both the web and the app in a given measurement period; however, given that we believe this minor overlap to be immaterial, we do not separately track or report unique users as distinct from MAUs. MAUs do not include embedded video, certain connected TV users, or users of the Locals platform. We also do not separately report the number of users who register for accounts in any given period, which is different from MAUs. Like many other major social media companies, we rely on significant paid advertising in order to attract users to our platform; however, we cannot be certain that all or substantially all activity that results from such advertising is genuine. Spam activity, including inauthentic and fraudulent user activity, if undetected, may contribute, from time to time, to some amount of overstatement of our performance indicators, including reporting of MAUs by our third-party analytics provider. We continually seek to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam-generated users, and we eliminate material activity that is substantially likely to be spam from the calculation of our MAUs. We will not, however, succeed in identifying and removing all spam. MAUs were 48 million on average in the first quarter of 2023, an increase of 17% from the first quarter of 2022. This growth is attributable to: our growing pool of content, content creators and formats; and our value proposition as competing platforms continue to censor and cancel the voices of creators. The decline in MAUs from the third and fourth quarters of 2022 is primarily the result of: a) certain popular creators being less active on Rumble during the first quarter of 2023 and b) the U.S. mid-term elections during the fourth quarter of 2022 and the subsequent slowdown of news and politics during the first quarter of 2023. 22 Estimated Minutes Watched Per Month (MWPM) We use estimated MWPM as a measure of audience engagement to help us understand the volume of engagement with our content on a monthly basis. Estimated MWPM represents the monthly average number of minutes watched within a quarterly period, which helps us measure the intensity of user engagement. Estimated MWPM is based on converting actual bandwidth consumption into minutes watched, using our managements best estimate of video resolution quality mix and various encoding parameters. We continually seek to improve our best estimates based on our observations of creator and user behavior on the Rumble platform, which changes based on the introduction of new product features, including livestreaming. We are currently limited, however, in our ability to collect data from certain aspects of our systems while we seek to improve our measurement capabilities. These limits may result in errors that are difficult to quantify, especially as the proportion of livestreaming on the Rumble platform increases over time, until we are able to measure MWPM directly. Bandwidth consumption includes video traffic across the entire Rumble platform (website, apps, embedded video, connected TV, etc.), as well as what our management believes is a nominal amount of non-video traffic. Starting in the second quarter of 2022 we began transitioning a portion of Locals bandwidth consumption to our infrastructure. While this currently represents an immaterial amount of consumption, we expect this to grow in the coming quarters. Estimated MWPM was 10.8 billion on average in the first quarter of 2023, an increase of 3% from the first quarter of 2022. This growth is attributable to: our growing pool of content creators; our value proposition as competing platforms continue to censor and cancel the voices of creators; and a number of new platform features. 23 Hours of Uploaded Video Per Day We use the amount of hours of uploaded video per day as a measure of content creation to help us understand the volume of content being created and uploaded to us on a daily basis. Hours of uploaded video per day were 11,181 on average in the first quarter 2023, an increase of 82% from the first quarter of 2022. This growth is attributable to: our growing pool of content creators; our value proposition as competing platforms continue to censor and cancel the voices of creators; and a number of new platform features. We regularly review, have adjusted in the past, and may in the future adjust our processes for calculating our key business metrics to improve their accuracy, including through the application of new data or technologies or product changes that may allow us to identify previously undetected spam activity. As a result of such adjustments, our key business metrics may not be comparable period-over-period. 24 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated interim statements of comprehensive loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 and the dollar and percentage change between the two periods: For the three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 Variance ($) Variance (%) Revenues $ 17,615,375 $ 4,044,765 $ 13,570,610 336 % Expenses Cost of services (content, hosting and other) $ 26,014,365 $ 3,742,570 $ 22,271,795 595 % General and administrative 6,900,545 1,540,367 5,360,178 348 % Research and development 2,550,561 792,332 1,758,229 222 % Sales and marketing 3,297,079 810,505 2,486,574 307 % Finance costs - 810,817 (810,817 ) (100 )% Share-based compensation 1,800,135 16,986 1,783,149 10,498 % Foreign exchange loss 15,906 27,577 (11,671 ) (42 )% Amortization and depreciation 681,074 225,627 455,447 202 % Total expenses 41,259,665 7,966,781 33,292,884 418 % Loss from operations (23,644,290 ) (3,922,016 ) (19,722,274 ) 503 % Interest income 3,307,927 8,698 3,299,229 37,931 % Changes in fair value of warrant liability (8,331,750 ) - (8,331,750 ) NM * Share of profit of a joint venture - 1,124 (1,124 ) (100 )% Loss before income taxes (28,668,113 ) (3,912,194 ) (24,755,919 ) 633 % Income tax recovery (expense) - - - NM * Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (28,668,113 ) $ (3,912,194 ) $ (24,755,919 ) 633 % NM* - Percentage change not meaningful. Revenues Revenues increased by $13.6 million to $17.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, of which $11.8 million is attributable to higher advertising revenue and $1.8 million is attributable to higher licensing and other revenue. The increase in advertising revenue was driven by an increase in consumption as well as the introduction of new advertising solutions for creators, publishers and advertisers, including host read advertising and our online advertising management exchange (Rumble Advertising Center or RAC), both of which we started to build and test in the second half of 2022. The increase in licensing and other revenue was driven by tipping features within our platform as well as certain cloud, subscription, platform hosting fees, and provision of one-time content. Cost of Services Cost of services increased by $22.3 million to $26.0 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due to an increase in programming and content costs of $21.1 million, hosting expenses of $0.5 million, and other service costs of $0.7 million. 25 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $5.4 million to $6.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due to a $1.4 million increase in staffing-related costs, as well as a $4.0 million increase in other administrative expenses, most of which are public company-related including accounting, legal, investor relations, insurance and other administrative services. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased by $1.8 million to $2.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due to a $1.3 million increase in staffing-related costs, as well as a $0.5 million increase in costs related to computer software, hardware and other administrative expenses. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased by $2.5 million to $3.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due to a $0.8 million increase in staffing-related and consulting service costs, as well as a $1.7 million increase in other marketing and public relations activities. Finance Costs Finance costs decreased by $0.8 million to zero in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was attributable to transaction costs, which included legal and other professional fees related to the Business Combination that took place in 2022. Share-based Compensation Share-based compensation increased by $1.8 million to $1.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, due to the vesting of certain previously and newly granted restricted stock units and stock options. Foreign Exchange Loss Foreign exchange loss decreased by $11.7 thousand to $15.9 thousand in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to lower foreign currency rate fluctuation as we maintained the majority of our cash balance in its functional currency as of March 31, 2023. Amortization and Depreciation Amortization and depreciation increased by $0.5 million to $0.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 as we continue to build out our infrastructure. Interest Income Interest income increased by $3.3 million to $3.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was due to carrying a higher balance in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as a result of the Business Combination. Share of Profit from Joint Venture Share of profit from joint venture decreased by an insignificant amount in the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared three months ended March 31, 2022. 26 Changes in Fair Value of Warrant Liability Change in fair value of warrant liability decreased by $8.3 million resulting in a loss of $8.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease relates to the issuance of 8,050,000 warrants in connection with the public offerings, private placements, and FPA. As these warrants meet the classification of a financial liability in accordance with ASC 815-40, the related warrant liability is measured at its fair value, determined in accordance with ASC 820, at each reporting period. The fair value of this warrant liability was measured using the fair value of the Companys warrants listed on the Nasdaq (Level 1 fair value hierarchy input). Refer to Note 2, Significant Events and Transactions, of the Annual Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically financed operations primarily through cash generated from operating activities and most recently through proceeds from financing. The primary short-term requirements for liquidity and capital are to fund general working capital and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2023, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balance was $326.3 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities consist of cash on deposit with banks and amounts held in money market funds, treasury bills, and term deposits. As we have consistently stated, we intend to use a substantial portion of funds that we have raised to acquire content by providing economic incentives, including minimum guaranteed earnings, to a limited number of content creators, including sports leagues. This content acquisition strategy will allow us to enter key content verticals and secure top content creators in those verticals before we have full monetization capabilities in place. Our present focus is to grow users and usage consumption and experiment with monetization levers, which may not maximize profitability in the immediate term, but which we believe positions our business for the long term. As a result, we expect this strategy will require us to consume a significant portion of our capital raised. The contracts we have signed to date obligate the Company to spend approximately $164 million related to programming and content. Of that amount, as of March 31, 2023, we had entered agreements with a minimum contractual cash commitment of $62 million. Subsequent to the end of the quarter, we entered additional agreements with a minimum contractual cash commitment of $102 million. A significant amount of these minimum contractual cash commitments will be paid over 12 to 48 months, commencing in 2023. In addition to the minimum contractual cash commitments, we have programming and content agreements that have variable cost arrangements. These future costs are dependent upon many factors and are difficult to anticipate, however, these costs may be substantial. The following table presents a summary of the condensed consolidated interim statement of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three months ended March 31, Variance Net cash provided by (used in): 2023 2022 ($) Operating activities $ (9,979,001 ) $ (3,717,779 ) $ (6,261,222 ) Investing activities (1,985,636 ) (1,750,949 ) (234,687 ) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the period (11,964,637 ) (5,468,728 ) (6,495,909 ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 337,169,279 46,847,375 290,321,904 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 325,204,642 $ 41,378,647 $ 283,825,995 27 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily consisted of net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including a $8.3 million change in fair value of warrant liability and $2.3 million in share-based compensation, as well as changes in working capital. The increase in net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 was mostly due to an increase in expenses partially offset by changes in working capital. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 mostly consisted of $2.0 million in purchases of capital assets and intangible assets. The increase in net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 was mostly due to an increase in purchases of capital assets and internal-use software. Summary of Quarterly Results Information for the most recent quarters presented are as follows: Mar 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Sep 30, 2022 Jun 30, 2022 Total revenue $ 17,615,375 $ 19,957,025 $ 10,983,182 $ 4,399,312 Net and comprehensive loss $ (28,668,113 ) $ (944,668 ) $ (1,858,452 ) $ (4,688,680 ) Mar 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021 Sep 30, 2021 Jun 30, 2021 Total revenue $ 4,044,765 $ 2,939,548 $ 2,069,473 $ 2,124,879 Net and comprehensive loss $ (3,912,194 ) $ (10,548,573 ) $ (2,624,957 ) $ (315,804 ) Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated interim financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (US GAAP). The preparation of condensed consolidated interim financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving our managements judgments and estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe that the accounting policies described below involve a significant degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, we believe that these are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. For further information, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. 28 Revenues On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. To determine revenue recognition for contractual arrangements that we determine are within the scope of ASC 606, we perform the following five steps: (1) identify each contract with a customer; (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when (or as) the relevant performance obligation is satisfied. We only apply the five-step model to contracts when it is probable that we will collect the consideration to which we are entitled to in exchange for the goods or services we provide to the customer. We generate revenues primarily from advertising and licensing fees. The revenues are generated by delivering content either via our own or third-party platforms. Advertising fees are generated by delivering both display advertisements and cost-per-message-read advertisements. Display advertisements are placed on Rumble and third-party publisher websites or mobile applications. Customers pay for advertisements either directly or through their relationships with advertising agencies or resellers, based on the number of impressions delivered or the number of actions such as clicks, or purchases taken, by our users. The Company recognizes revenue from display advertisements when a user engages with the advertisement, such as an impression, click, or purchase. For cost-per-message-read advertising, customers pay to have their products or services promoted by a content creator and advertising revenue is recognized when the performance obligation is fulfilled, usually when the message is read. Licensing fees are charged on a per video or on a flat-fee per month basis. Licensing fee revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied in line with the nature of the intellectual property being licensed. Other revenues include fees earned from tipping features within the Companys platform as well as certain cloud, subscription, platform hosting, and professional services. Fees from tipping features are recognized at a point in time when a user tips on the platform. Both cloud and subscription services are recognized over time for the duration of the contract. Revenues related to platform hosting are recognized over time as the Company provides access to the platform. Professional service revenues have stand-alone functionality to the customer and are recognized at a point in time as services are provided or earned. Share-Based Compensation Expenses Stock Options We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees, advisory board members, directors, officers, and consultants using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (BSM). The grant date fair value of stock options is recognized as share-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Forfeitures are accounted for when they occur. BSM considers several variables and assumptions in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards. These variables include: Fair Value of Common Stock: Because Legacy Rumble Class A common shares (also referred to as Rumbles common stock below) were not publicly traded prior to the closing of the Business Combination, we estimated the fair value of our common stock in 2019, 2020 and 2021 using Level 3 inputs as defined in the ASC 820 fair value hierarchy. Our board of directors considers several objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our common stock as discussed in Common Stock Valuations below. Fair value of Rumbles Class A common shares following the closing of the Business Combination is determined based on the Nasdaq closing price of the Companys Class A common stock as at the date of measurement. Expected Term: The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding and was determined to be the contractual term of the options. Expected Volatility: Since we have only a limited trading history of our common stock, the expected volatility was derived from the average historical stock volatilities of several public companies within our industry that we consider to be comparable to our business over a period equivalent to the expected term of the stock option grants. 29 Risk-Free Interest Rate: The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with the remaining term equivalent to the expected term. Expected Dividend: We have not paid any dividends in our history and do not expect to pay any dividends over the life of the options and, therefore, have estimated the dividend yield to be zero. Common Stock Valuations Prior to the closing of the Business Combination, given the absence of a public trading market for our common stock and in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Accounting and Valuation Guide, Valuation of Privately Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation, our board of directors determined the best estimate of fair value of our common stock exercising reasonable judgment and considering numerous objective and subjective factors. These factors included: the valuation at which we conducted our most recent rounds of equity financing; contemporaneous third-party valuations of our common stock; the transaction prices at which we or other holders sold our common stock to outside investors in arms-length transactions; our financial condition, results of operations and capital resources; the industry outlook; consideration that the options awarded reflected rights in illiquid securities in the private company; the valuation of comparable companies; the lack of marketability of our common stock; the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as an initial public offering or a sale of us given prevailing market conditions; the history and nature of our business, industry trends and the competitive environment; and the general economic outlook, including with respect to economic growth, inflation, unemployment, the interest rate environment and global economic trends. Our board of directors determined the fair value of our common stock by first determining the enterprise value of our business, and then using the enterprise value to derive the per share value of our common stock. The enterprise value of our business was estimated by considering several factors, including estimates using the market approach. The market approach was estimated based on the projected value of comparable public companies in a similar line of business that are publicly traded. In addition to the market approach described above, our board of directors factored in recent arms-length transactions such as the closest round of equity financing preceding the date of valuation. After determining our enterprise value, an allocation of the enterprise value is assigned to each of our various classes of shares with consideration of the different rights associated with each share class, including liquidation preferences, seniority of shares, and conversion rights. The value attributed to common shares through this allocation determines the per share value of our common stock. The BSM implementation of the option pricing method treats the rights of holders of various classes of securities (common shares, preferred shares, warrants, and options) as call options on any value of the Company above a series of break points. The values of the break points were calculated by reviewing the liquidation preferences of preferred shares (including seniority of any series of preferred shares), the participation rights of preferred shares (including any caps on such participation), and the strike prices of warrants and options. 30 Application of these approaches involves the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are highly complex and subjective, such as those regarding discount rates, market multiples, the selection of comparable companies and the probability of possible future events. Changes in any or all of these estimates and assumptions, or the relationships between those assumptions, impact our valuations as of each valuation date and may have a material impact on the valuation of our common stock. For valuations after the completion of the Business Combination, our board of directors determines the fair value of each share of underlying Class A common stock based on the closing price of Class A common stock as reported on the date of grant. Warrants Measurement of the Companys warrants issued to purchase shares of Class A common stock post-closing of the Business Combination is based on the Nasdaq closing price of the Companys warrants as at the date of measurement. Warrants issued to purchase common stock of Legacy Rumble prior to the closing of the Business Combination were freestanding financial instruments classified as equity, and measured using the BSM option pricing model, which included assumptions related to the inputs of exercise price, fair value of the underlying common stock, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected volatility, and expected dividend yield, which were all determined in the same manner as our stock options detailed in the above Stock Based Compensation Expenses section. As the outstanding warrants (prior to the closing of the Business Combination) were also subject to a performance condition, management assessed the probability of the performance condition being met at each reporting date. These Legacy Rumble warrants were exchanged for 14,153,048 shares of Class A common stock of the Company as part of the Business Combination, for a par value of $731,281. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated interim financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We intend to elect to adopt new or revised accounting standards under private company adoption timelines. Accordingly, the timing of our adoption of new or revised accounting standards will not be the same as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies or that have opted out of using such extended transition period and our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of public companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards.