Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Management s Discussion and Analysis ($ in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Report and the Annual Report. Except for historical information, the statements in this discussion may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by words such as: "believes," "can," "expect," "likely," "should," "will" and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding future sales, earnings, return on equity, cost savings, process improvements, free cash flow, share repurchases, capital expenditures, acquisitions, new products and services, technology licensing activity and other matters. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: (1) global economic conditions , particularly the uncertainties in the Eurozone and other factors affecting the creditworthiness of our Eurozone customers ; (2) changes in pricing and the competitive environment and the global demand for the Companys products; (3) changes in foreign currency exchange rates; (4) changes in research funding and the success of R&D activities; (5) failure of planned sales initiatives in our Research, Applied and SAFC Commercial business units; (6) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations and global supply chain; (7) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates; (8) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, including the matters described in Note 4 Income Taxes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item I, Part 1 of this Report and in Note 11 Income Taxes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Part II of the Annual Report; (9) exposure to litigation including product liability claims; (10) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards; (11) reliance on third party package delivery services; (12) an unanticipated increase in interest rates; (13) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates; (14) acquisitions or divestitures of businesses; and (15) the outcome of the outstanding matters described in "Other Matters" below and in Note 12 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Part II of the Annual Report. A further discussion of the Company's risk factors can be found in Item 1A, Part I of the Annual Report. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Report is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with U.S. GAAP with certain non-GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, U.S. GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. With over 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, acquisition impacts. The Company calculates the impact of 14 Table of Contents changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates; the result is the defined impact of "changes in foreign currency exchange rates" or "changes in FX." While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur to applicable exchange rates later in 2013 or any future period. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the large volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well. Overview Background The Company is a leading Life Science and High Technology company whose biochemical and organic chemical products, kits and services are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostics and high technology manufacturing. Our customers include pharmaceutical and life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and industry. We believe over 1.4 million scientists and technologists use our products. We operate in 37 countries and have approximately 9,000 employees worldwide. Effective January 1, 2013, the Company's business unit structure was realigned into three market-focused business units that are defined by the customers and markets they serve: Research, Applied and SAFC Commercial. The business units are closely interrelated in their activities and share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, the e-commerce infrastructure, purchasing and inventory control. The business units also share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these business units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety and compliance and information technology. During 2012, the Company operated with the business units of Research and SAFC. Research, representing approximately 53 percent of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , provides reagents and consumables to life sciences and non-profit research organizations. Applied, representing approximately 24 percent of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , provides raw materials and solutions for testing in clinical and industrial applications. SAFC Commercial, representing approximately 23 percent of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , supports the manufacturing needs of commercial project managers through rapid delivery of custom products and services. The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non-profit organizations located in the United States and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, economic conditions and government research funding in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere do have some impact on demand from certain of our customers. Strategy The Company's business strategy is designed to drive overall sales and earnings growth and to maintain a return on invested capital at an appropriate premium above the Company's cost of capital. Our key areas of focus address the most significant opportunities and challenges facing the Company, including: Improving Customer Intimacy: We constantly strive to exceed our customers' expectations through offering the right selection of high quality products and services, providing superior customer service and support as well as consistently delivering products that meet published or agreed specifications when and where our customers need them. The continued enhancement of a world-class e-commerce platform is a significant part of this approach. Expanding Products and Services: Increasing our geographic coverage, particularly in APAC and Brazil, pursuing new and innovative technologies and expanding our product and service offerings organically and through strategic acquisitions, should enable us to drive continued sales and earnings growth. Accelerating Operational Excellence: Through the optimization of our worldwide footprint, strategic sourcing of our products and materials and driving efficiencies in our distribution networks and operating expenses, we aim to continually enhance our operating margins. 15 Table of Contents Key Business Trends and Highlights In operating our business and monitoring its performance, the Company considers a number of performance measures, as well as trends affecting our industry as whole, which include the following: Macroeconomic Concerns Impacting Funding: Uncertainties in the United States and Europe around the macroeconomic environment have impacted overall research funding. Industry Consolidation: Our industry remains fragmented with few companies possessing a significant share in any particular market, which allows some participants to continue consolidating specialty, regional and niche players in the industry. The Company plans to continue to enhance sales growth and increase its market presence through strategic acquisitions. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations: Since we are a multinational corporation that sells and sources products in many different countries, changes in exchange rates have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future sales and operating results. Emerging Market Growth: With emerging markets in APAC and Brazil growing at faster rates, we continue to focus our sales efforts on these areas. In 2012, the Company further expanded its footprint in this area with the opening of a new manufacturing facility in Kaohsiung, Taiwan that serves the fast growing LED market, an expanded distribution center and new packaging facility in Bangalore, India, and a new packaging and quality control facility in Wuxi, China. Growth of Internet: The internet continues to change the markets we serve in terms of access and exposure to existing and potential customers. Ensuring a strong presence in this channel is critical to our long term success. Worldwide sales of Research and Applied products through the Company's e-commerce channels, including both web-based and EDI platforms, have grown to 47 percent of the Company's total sales of Research and Applied products during the first quarter of 2013 as compared to 46 percent during the same period in 2012. Pharmaceutical Outsourcing: We continue to take advantage of the expanded market opportunities brought about by the outsourcing trend and shift towards biologic drug development throughout the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, with an increased focus on enhancing outsourcing partnerships with our customers. Regulations: Our industry is experiencing opportunities resulting from regulations that are directed at improving the quality of life, with significant focus in the areas of renewable energy and reduced energy consumption. The Company's Hitech business, part of the SAFC Commercial business unit, is poised to take advantage of these opportunities by supplying certain raw materials to manufacturers of LED products. Highlights of our consolidated results for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , are as follows: Net sales were $675 , an increase of 2 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding the sales from acquisitions, which increased sales growth by 2 percent , and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which lowered sales by 1 percent , sales increased organically by 1 percent compared to the first quarter of 2012 . Operating income margin was 24.6 percent , compared to 25.9 percent in the same period in 2012 . Diluted net income per share was $1.01 compared to $0.96 in 2012 . This increase was primarily driven by a lower tax rate, which increased reported diluted net income per share by $0.07. Net cash provided by operating activities was $154 for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , an $10 increase compared to the first three months of 2012 . Total debt was $389 at March 31, 2013 . Debt decreased $294 since December 31, 2012 due to decreased borrowings of commercial paper. 16 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a summary of our unaudited financial results ($ in millions, except per share amounts): Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Net sales $ 675 $ 665 Cost of products and services sold 331 310 Gross profit 344 355 Selling, general and administrative expenses 161 160 Research and development expenses 17 18 Acquisition transaction costs 5 Operating income 166 172 Interest, net 1 1 Income before income taxes 165 171 Provision for income taxes 43 54 Net income $ 122 $ 117 Net income per share - Diluted $ 1.01 $ 0.96 Net Sales Net sales were $675 in the first quarter of 2013 , up 2 percent from the first quarter of 2012 . Our acquisitions of BioReliance and Research Organics, acquired in January 2012 and March 2012, respectively, contributed $15 or 2 percent to this sales growth. The effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by $8 or 1 percent . Excluding the effects of acquisitions and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, sales increased organically by $3 or 1 percent . The changes in net sales for the Company's business units are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Change Impact of Changes in FX Increase due to Acquisitions Organic Growth Organic Growth % Research $ 361 $ 372 $ (11 ) $ (6 ) $ $ (5 ) (1 )% Applied 159 153 6 (1 ) 3 4 3 % SAFC Commercial 155 140 15 (1 ) 12 4 3 % Total $ 675 $ 665 $ 10 $ (8 ) $ 15 $ 3 1 % Research total sales were $361 for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $372 during the same period last year. Sales decreased organically by $5 or 1 percent compared to the same period last year. The decline in organic Research sales was primarily driven by lower government grants and other funding to academic institutions resulting from sequestration in the United States, uncertainties regarding research funding in Europe and fewer shipping days than the comparable period in 2012. The overall decline in sales was partially offset by growth in sales in our dealer networks resulting from the launch of our Dealers as Partners program in EMEA during the first quarter of 2013. Applied total sales were $159 for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $153 during the same period last year. Sales increased organically by $4 or 3 percent compared to the same period last year. The primary driver of this growth was within the Diagnostic and Testing markets, which experienced increased sales of critical components for diagnostic kits and sales of standards and certified reference materials to clinical testing laboratories. All geographic regions contributed to Applied's overall growth. SAFC Commercial total sales were $155 for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $140 during the same period last year. Sales grew organically by $4 or 3 percent compared to the same period last year. The organic growth was led by strong sales within 17 Table of Contents our Life Science Products and Services business, most notably our custom pharmaceutical manufacturing and industrial cell culture media products. This growth was partially offset by lower sales in our Hitech electronics business, primarily from year-over-year pricing declines in metal organic precursors for the LED market. Geographically, the increase in SAFC Commercial's sales over the prior year was largely led by the Total Americas region. Worldwide sales of Research and Applied products through e-commerce channels, which include the Companys web site, were 47 percent of total Research and Applied sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 . Gross Profit Margin and Expenses Key items from the consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of sales and the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Gross profit margin 51.0 % 53.4 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 23.9 % 24.1 % Research and development expenses 2.5 % 2.7 % Acquisition transaction costs % 0.7 % Operating income 24.6 % 25.9 % Effective tax rate 26.1 % 31.6 % Cost of Products and Services Sold and Gross Profit Margin Cost of products and services sold represents direct materials, labor, distribution and overhead costs associated with the Company's products and services. Cost of products sold for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $331 compared to $310 for the same period in the prior year. For the three months ended March 31, 2013 , the increase in cost of products and services sold when compared to the prior year was due to higher material, manufacturing and distribution expenses of $14 and additional costs contributed by acquisitions completed in 2012 of $10. These increases were partially offset by a $3 decrease resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The following table reflects the significant contributing factors to the net change in gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 : Three Months Ended March 31, Gross profit margin 2012 53.4 % Decreases to gross profit margin: Changes in foreign currency exchange rates (0.2 )% Sales volume/Product mix/Pricing/Other (1.8 )% Acquisitions (0.4 )% Gross profit margin 2013 51.0 % 18 Table of Contents SG&A Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 161 $ 160 Percentage of sales 23.9 % 24.1 % SG&A as a percentage of sales was largely in line with the prior year's percentage. R&D Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Research and development expenses $ 17 $ 18 Percentage of sales 2.5 % 2.7 % R&D as a percentage of sales was largely in line with the prior year's percentage. R&D expenses relate primarily to efforts to add new manufactured products, create and develop new technologies and enhance manufacturing processes. Self-manufactured products currently account for approximately 60 percent of total sales. Acquisition Transaction Costs Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Acquisition transaction costs $ $ 5 Percentage of sales % 0.7 % Acquisition transaction costs of $5 were incurred during the first quarter of 2012 related to the January 2012 acquisition of BioReliance and the March 2012 acquisition of Research Organics. Income Taxes Income taxes, which include federal, state and international taxes, were 26.1 percent and 31.6 percent of pretax income for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. During the first quarter of 2013, the full impact of the U.S. R&D Tax Credit for all of 2012 and a portion of the credit related to 2013 were recognized as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 being signed into law on January 1, 2013. This credit had a benefit to our effective tax rate of approximately 300 basis points and increased net income by $5. The effective tax rate for the full year of 2013 is expected to be 28 to 29 percent of pretax income. 19 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited), are summarized in the following table: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2013 2012 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 154 $ 144 Investing activities (59 ) (419 ) Financing activities (334 ) 165 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $154 , an increase of $10 or 7 percent compared to the same period in 2012 . This increase was driven by a reduction in inventory levels in the first quarter of 2013 of $4 compared to a use of cash for inventory of $16 in the same period last year. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 decreased $360 compared to the same period in 2012 . This decrease was primarily due to cash used for acquisitions during the first three months of 2012 of $389 that did not repeat in 2013. Capital spending also decreased $7 from the same period last year. The overall decrease was partially offset by the increased use of cash to purchase short-term investments of $35. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased $499 compared to the same period in 2012 . This increase is due to the net repayment of $294 of short-term debt during the first three months of 2013 , as compared to a net issuance of short-term debt of $193 in the same period of 2012 . Long-term debt was $300 at both March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 . Consolidated total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, calculated as the sum of total stockholders' equity and total debt, was 13.0 percent at March 31, 2013 and 21.1 percent at December 31, 2012 . For a description of the Company's material credit facilities and debt covenants, see Note 7 Debt to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Share Repurchases At March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 , the Company had repurchased a total of 100 and 99 million shares, respectively, of an authorized repurchase of 110 million shares. There were 120 million shares outstanding as of March 31, 2013 . The Company expects to continue to offset, in whole or in part, the dilutive impact of issuing share-based compensation with future share repurchases. The Company may repurchase additional shares, but the timing and amount will depend on market conditions and other factors. Liquidity and Risk Management Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company might be unable to meet its financial obligations in a timely manner or fund its business on an ongoing basis. Factors that could cause such risk to arise include a disruption in the securities markets, downgrades in the Company's credit rating or the unavailability of funds. In addition to the Company's cash flows from operations, the Company utilizes commercial paper, short-term multi-currency debt, cash on hand and long-term debt programs as funding sources. The Company maintains committed bank lines of credit to support its commercial paper borrowings and local bank lines of credit to support its international operations. Downgrades in the Company's credit rating or other limitations on the ability to access short-term financing, including the ability to refinance short-term debt as it becomes due, would increase interest costs and thereby adversely affect profitability. The Company has considered the potential impact of recent trends in the global economic environment on its liquidity and overall financial condition, particularly with respect to the availability of and the Company's access to, short-term credit, 20 Table of Contents including the market for commercial paper. Based on discussions held with the Company's lenders, management does not believe that a significant risk exists of commercial paper or other credit becoming unavailable within the next twelve months. Management believes that the Company's financial condition is such that internal and external resources are sufficient and available to satisfy the Company's requirements for debt service, capital expenditures, selective acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases, funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plan obligations and working capital presently and for the next twelve months. It is management's view that cash provided by operating activities, along with its available credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund the operations of the business for the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2013 , the Company had sufficient net worth to allow for borrowing the full capacity under the credit agreement for each facility without any restriction related to compliance with the respective debt covenants. For a description of the Company's material credit facilities and debt covenants, see Note 7 Debt to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. At March 31, 2013 , substantially all of the Company's cash and cash equivalents were held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. The Company has asserted that a majority of this cash is permanently reinvested and is one of the primary liquidity sources used to support its operations and continued growth plans outside of the United States. The Company has sufficient liquidity in the United States to fund its operations, capital plans, dividends and share repurchases and, accordingly, has no immediate need or plans to repatriate any of its cash held by these subsidiaries. Contractual Obligations At March 31, 2013 , the Company had $89 of commercial paper outstanding and long-term borrowings of $300 , for a total decrease in all outstanding debt of $294 since December 31, 2012 . Other Matters The Company is involved in legal proceedings generally incidental to its business, as described below: The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits and claims related to the normal conduct of its business, including lawsuits and claims related to product liability and personal injury matters. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. The Company has self-insured retention limits and has obtained insurance to provide coverage above the self-insured limits for claims made against it, including product liability and personal injury claims, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. Reserves have been provided to cover expected payments for these self-insured amounts at March 31, 2013 . At March 31, 2013 , there were no contingent liabilities that management believes are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity and there were no material commitments outside of the normal course of business. Material commitments in the normal course of business include notes payable, long-term debt, lease commitments and pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations which are disclosed in Note 6 Notes Payable, Note 7 Long-Term Debt, Note 9 Lease Commitments and Note 15 Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefit Plans, respectively, to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report, as updated in Note 7 Debt and Note 10 Pension and Post-retirement Benefits to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. 21 Table of Contents