Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report) and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on March 18, 2019 (the Annual Report), including the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included therein. SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. All statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report regarding our strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues and losses, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. These forward-looking statements are based on managements current beliefs, based on currently available information, as to the outcome and timing of future events. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in this Quarterly Report in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations and Risk Factors. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained this Quarterly Report primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results or those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include the following: our ability to attract and retain customers, including larger organizations; our ability to deepen our relationships with existing customers; our expectations regarding our customer growth rate; our business plan and beliefs and objectives for future operations; trends associated with our industry and potential market; benefits associated with use of our platform and services; our ability to develop or acquire new solutions, improve our platform and solutions and increase the value of our platform and solutions; our ability to compete successfully against current and future competitors; our ability to further develop strategic relationships; our ability to achieve positive returns on investments; our plans to acquire complementary businesses, products or technology; our plans to further invest in and grow our business, and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology, our ability to increase our revenue, our revenue growth rate and gross margin; our ability to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability; our future financial performance, including trends in revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, other income and expenses, income taxes, billings and customers; the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements; our ability to raise capital and the loans of those financings; our ability to attract, train and retain qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to maintain and benefit from our corporate culture; our ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate companies and assets; our ability to successfully enter new markets and manage our international expansion; and our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property and not infringe upon others intellectual property. These and other important risk factors are described more fully in our reports and other documents filed with the SEC, including under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A in the Annual Report and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report . We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report relate only to events as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Quarterly Report or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. 17 Business Overview SailPoint is the leading provider of enterprise identity governance solutions. Our open identity platform provides organizations with critical visibility into who currently has access to which resources, who should have access to those resources, and how that access is being used. We offer both on-premises software and cloud-based solutions, which empower our customers to efficiently and securely govern the digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners and other users, and manage their constantly changing access rights to enterprise applications and data across hybrid IT environments, whether comprised of on-premises, cloud or mobile applications. We help customers enable their businesses with more agile and innovative IT, enhance their security posture and better meet compliance and regulatory requirements. We believe that our open identity platform is a critical, foundational layer of a modern cyber security strategy that complements and builds upon traditional perimeter- and endpoint-centric security solutions, which on their own are increasingly insufficient to secure organizations, and their applications and data. Our customers include many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations, including commercial enterprises, educational institutions and governments. Our solutions address the complex needs of global enterprises and mid-market organizations. As of March 31, 2019, 1,219 customers across a wide variety of industries were using our products to enable and secure digital identities across the globe. No single customer represented more than 10% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our revenue was $60.6 million and $48.9 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net loss was $8.4 million and $2.3 million, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash provided by operations was $17.2 million and $15.3 million, respectively. Our success is principally dependent on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Delivering these solutions is challenging because our customers have large, complex IT environments, often rely on both legacy and innovative technologies, and deploy different business models, including on premise and cloud solutions. Rising security threats and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy and internal IT controls create new opportunities for our industry and require us to adapt our solutions to be successful. Our ability to continue to maintain our historical growth rates is also challenging because our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our global presence and invest in new vertical markets, while competing against much larger companies with more recognizable brands and financial resources. As an example of these challenges, we have seen recent changes in our pipeline that impacted our expectations for the remainder of 2019. We believe we have identified the challenges and are making changes in our go-to-market initiatives. We believe these changes will address our execution shortfalls, however, if we are unable to successfully address these recent challenges, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. Although we seek to grow rapidly, we also focus on delivering positive net cash from operations while continuing to invest in our platform and to deliver innovative solutions to our customers. Additionally, our gross margins vary depending on the type of solution we sell, and a shift in the mix of our solutions could affect our performance relative to historical results. We deliver an integrated set of solutions that supports all aspects of identity governance, including provisioning, access request, compliance controls, password management and identity governance for data stored in files. Our solutions are built on an open identity platform, which offers connectivity to a variety of security and operational IT applications, extending the reach of our identity governance processes and enabling effective identity governance controls across customer environments. Our set of solutions currently consists of (i) IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution, (ii) IdentityNow, our cloud-based, multi-tenant governance suite, which is delivered as a subscription service, and (iii) IdentityAI, our cloud-based, multi-tenant advanced identity analytics solution, which is delivered as a subscription service. See Part I, Item 1 Business of the Annual Report for more information regarding our solutions. We devote significant resources to acquire new customers, in both existing and new markets, in order to grow our customer base. In addition, we focus on three distinct opportunities to increase sales to existing customers: (i) expand the number of digital identities; (ii) up-sell additional modules or target storage systems, as applicable, within a single solution; and (iii) cross-sell additional solutions. On September 8, 2014, SailPoint Technologies Holdings, Inc. acquired all of the capital stock of SailPoint Technologies, Inc. We refer to this transaction as the Acquisition. 18 See Key f actors a ffecting o ur p erformance within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report, for information regarding the Key f actors a ffecting o ur p erformance . Key Business Metrics In addition to our GAAP financial information, we monitor the following key metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Number of customers 1,219 984 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 53 % 46 % Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) $ 1,073 $ 3,925 Number of Customers . We believe that the size of our customer base is an indicator of our market penetration and that our net customer additions are an indicator of the growth of our business and our future revenue opportunity. We define a customer as a distinct entity, division or business unit of an organization that receives support or has the right to use our cloud-based solutions as of the specified measurement date. Subscription Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue . Subscription revenue is a portion of our total revenue and is derived from (i) IdentityNow, our cloud-based solution where customers enter into SaaS subscription agreements with us, and (ii) IdentityIQ maintenance and support agreements, but not licenses. As we generally sell our solutions on a per-identity basis, our subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as part of a SaaS subscription, and the ongoing price paid per-identity under a maintenance and support agreement or SaaS subscription. Thus, we consider our subscription revenue to be the recurring portion of our revenue base and believe that its continued growth as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Because we recognize our subscription revenue ratably over the duration of those agreements, a portion of the revenue we recognize each period is derived from agreements we entered into in prior periods. In contrast, we typically recognize license revenue upon entering into the applicable license, the timing of which is less predictable and may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a measure widely used by securities analysts and investors to evaluate the financial performance of our company and other companies. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is an important measure for evaluating our performance because it facilitates comparisons of our core operating results from period to period by removing the impact of our stock-based compensation, asset base (depreciation and amortization), purchase accounting adjustments, capital structure (net interest income or expense) and tax consequences. In addition, we base certain of our forward-looking estimates and budgets on adjusted EBITDA. See the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information regarding adjusted EBITDA, including the limitations of using adjusted EBITDA as a financial measure, and for a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures to clarify and enhance our understanding of past performance and future prospects. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys operating performance, financial position or cash flow that includes or excludes amounts that are included or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. We monitor the non-GAAP financial measures described below and we believe they are helpful to investors. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in our industry because they may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently. In addition, there are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and exclude expenses that may have a material impact on our reported financial results. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge you to review the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 19 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net loss adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense, amortization and depreciation, purchase accounting adjustments, interest (income) expense, net, and income taxes. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from adjusted EBITDA because it is non-cash in nature and excluding this expense provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and allows investors the ability to make more meaningful comparisons between our operating results and those of other companies. We also exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, and the partial release of the valuation allowance due to acquisition from our non-GAAP financial measures because these are considered by management to be outside of our core operating results. Accordingly, we believe that excluding these expenses provides investors and management with greater visibility to the underlying performance of our business operations and may also facilitate comparison with the results of other companies in our industry. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA to net loss calculated in accordance with GAAP: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (In thousands) Net loss $ (8,390 ) $ (2,302 ) Stock-based compensation (1) 4,870 5,139 Amortization of acquired intangibles 2,331 2,206 Depreciation 972 421 Purchase price accounting adjustment (2) 13 Interest (income) expense, net (3) (11 ) 1,178 Income tax expense (benefit) 1,301 (2,730 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,073 $ 3,925 (1) Stock-based compensation includes employer related payroll taxes. (2) Purchase accounting adjustment related to the fair value write down of deferred revenue from the Acquisition. (3) Interest expense includes amortization of debt issuance costs. Components of Results of Operations See Components of Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report, for information regarding the components of our results of operations. ASC 606 Adoption and Impact to Previously Reported Results During the year ended December 31, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) and subsequent amendments to the initial guidance collectively, ASC 606, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition whereby the results and related disclosures for the comparative 2018 periods presented in this Quarterly Report were recast and are now presented as if ASC 606 had been in effect beginning January 1, 2018 with modified retrospective adjustments applicable prior to January 1, 2018 included as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3 Revenue Recognition in the financial statements included in the Annual Report for accounting policy updates and additional information on our adoption of ASC 606. 20 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (In thousands) Revenue Licenses $ 18,669 $ 16,808 Subscription 31,835 22,505 Services and other 10,079 9,628 Total revenue 60,583 48,941 Cost of revenue Licenses 1,059 1,138 Subscription (1) 5,813 4,658 Services and other (1) 7,997 6,974 Total cost of revenue 14,869 12,770 Gross profit 45,714 36,171 Operating expenses Research and development (1) 12,772 9,762 General and administrative (1) 9,137 7,657 Sales and marketing (1) 30,488 22,459 Total operating expenses 52,397 39,878 Loss from operations (6,683 ) (3,707 ) Other expense, net: Interest income (expense), net 11 (1,178 ) Other, net (417 ) (147 ) Total other expense, net (406 ) (1,325 ) Loss before income taxes (7,089 ) (5,032 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (1,301 ) 2,730 Net loss $ (8,390 ) $ (2,302 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 260 $ 121 Cost of revenue - services and other 349 375 Research and development 917 641 General and administrative 1,371 2,340 Sales and marketing 1,742 1,662 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 4,639 $ 5,139 21 The following table sets forth the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Revenue Licenses 31 % 34 % Subscription 53 46 Services and other 16 20 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue Licenses 2 2 Subscription 10 10 Services and other 13 14 Total cost of revenue 25 26 Gross profit 75 74 Operating expenses Research and development 21 20 General and administrative 15 16 Sales and marketing 50 46 Total operating expenses 86 82 Loss from operations (11 ) (8 ) Other expense, net: Interest income (expense), net 0 (2 ) Other, net (1 ) 0 Total other expense, net (1 ) (2 ) Loss before income taxes (12 ) (10 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (2 ) 6 Net loss (14 )% (4 )% Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue Licenses $ 18,669 $ 16,808 $ 1,861 11 % Subscription 31,835 22,505 9,330 41 % Services and other 10,079 9,628 451 5 % Total revenue $ 60,583 $ 48,941 $ 11,642 24 % License Revenue. License revenue increased by $1.9 million, or 11%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. Consistent with prior periods, license revenue from new customers was higher than license revenue from existing customers for the three months ended March 31, 2019. This increase is primarily attributable to increased sales to the new customers, with a 44% year over year increase, partially offset by a decrease in follow-on license sales to our existing customers. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, license revenue from new customers was $14.5 million and $10.0 million, respectively; and license revenue from existing customers was $4.2 million and $6.8 million for the respective periods. Our revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased. 22 Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue increased by $ 9.3 million, or 4 1 %, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily a result of an increase in ongoing maintenance renewals and an increase in maintenance revenue derived from new license s ales . Our customer base increased by 2 35 , or 24 %, from 984 customers at March 31, 2018 to 1 , 219 customers at March 31, 2019 . During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 201 8 , revenue from existing customers contributed to more than 9 5 % of subscription revenue. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, subscription revenue from new and existing customers increased 38% and 42% , respectively, compared to three months ended March 31, 2018 . Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $0.5 million, or 5%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase is primarily a result of an increase in the number of customers using our consulting and training services. Geographic Regions . Our operations in the United States were responsible for the largest portion of our revenue in each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 because of our larger and more established sales force and partner network in the United States as compared to our other regions. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue from Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) increased 23% year over year primarily due to our investment in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 41,560 69 % $ 32,361 66 % EMEA (1) 13,937 23 % 11,319 23 % Rest of the World (1) 5,086 8 % 5,261 11 % Total revenue $ 60,583 100 % $ 48,941 100 % (1) No single country represented more than 10% of our condensed consolidated revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit Licenses $ 17,610 $ 15,670 $ 1,940 12 % Subscription 26,022 17,847 8,175 46 % Services and other 2,082 2,654 (572 ) (22 )% Total gross profit $ 45,714 $ 36,171 $ 9,543 26 % Gross margin Licenses 94 % 93 % Subscription 82 % 79 % Services and other 21 % 28 % Total gross margin 75 % 74 % Licenses. License gross profit increased by $1.9 million, or 12%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was the result of increased license revenues with only minor increases in third party royalties. Subscription. Subscription gross profit increased by $8.2 million, or 46%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was the result of growth in subscription revenue, as described above, coupled with growth in costs of subscription revenue at a rate lower than our revenue growth as we continue to build economies of scale within our customer support organization and our utilization of cloud-based hosting services. 23 Services and Other . Services and other gross profit dec reased by $ 0. 6 million, or 2 2 %, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This de crease was primarily attributable to the higher costs associated with expanding our infrastructure for our professional services and training organization to support an increasing number of customers . Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Operating expenses Research and development $ 12,772 $ 9,762 $ 3,010 31 % General and administrative 9,137 7,657 1,480 19 % Sales and marketing 30,488 22,459 8,029 36 % Total operating expenses $ 52,397 $ 39,878 $ 12,519 31 % Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $3.0 million, or 31%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. Approximately 93% of this increase was the result of an increase in headcount, and related allocated overhead, to optimize and expand our product offerings as well as pursue innovation in identity governance. Substantially all of the remaining increase in research and development expenses was the result of an increase in software and maintenance expenses, primarily cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based offering. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.5 million, or 19%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by approximately $1.7 million of increase in professional services expense comprised of legal, accounting and consulting fees associated with the implementation of ASC 606 and SOX. This increase was partially offset by an approximately $1.0 million decrease related to general and administrative stock-based compensation expense, further offset by an increase in general and administrative headcount and related allocated overhead expenses, which includes an increase in general and administrative facility expense associated with the expansion of our offices worldwide. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $8.0 million, or 36%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. Approximately $6.1 million, or 76%, of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount, stock-based compensation expense and related allocated overhead, to support increased penetration into our existing customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. As our headcount increased, we also experienced related increases in travel and advertising costs of $0.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income (expense), net, decreased by $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to March 31, 2018. This decrease was primarily due to paydown of our term loan principal balance and related amortization of debt issuance cost. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Provision for income taxes consists of U.S. and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. With the previous adoption of ASC 606 in 2018, we are in a deferred tax liability position and no longer require a valuation allowance. We still maintain a full valuation allowance for our Israel tax position due the lack of taxable earnings for the foreseeable future. Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to the valuation allowances on certain foreign deferred tax assets, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; unanticipated changes in tax rates; and differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. 24 We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business including the United States and Israel. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax if such earnings are distributed to the U.S. During the fourth quarter of each year prior to 2018 , we have incurred net losses since our inception. W e have since begun to utilize our net operating losses for federal income tax purposes. Thus, o ur tax expense to date relates primarily to foreign income taxes, mainly from our Israeli activities, and to a lesser extent, state income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are 1 8. 4 % and ( 54.3 ) % , respectively. The difference in effective tax rate is primarily due to the increase in foreign taxes and increase in worldwide pre-tax book loss. We do not consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of India, to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. Prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company had consistently applied Section 956 to its intercompany cash flows. Under the Act, beginning in 2018, global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions apply providing an incremental tax on low taxed foreign income. The GILTI provisions require the Company to include in its U.S. income tax return foreign subsidiary earnings in excess of an allowable return on the foreign subsidiarys tangible assets. As a result of applying these provisions, the majority of the earnings in our foreign subsidiaries represent income that was previously taxed in the United States. As a result, there would be no material income tax consequences to repatriating the cash currently held in our foreign subsidiaries. In India, we continue to invest and grow our research and development activities and have no plans to repatriate undistributed earning held in India back to the U.S. parent company, and therefore consider earnings in India to be permanently reinvested. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2019, we had $86.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, $150.0 million of availability under our revolving credit agreement and $6.0 million in our irrevocable, cash collateralized, unconditional standby letter of credit, issued primarily in connection with our new corporate headquarters lease. See Item 2 Properties included in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report for more information regarding our new corporate headquarters lease. As of March 31, 2019, we had approximately $3.4 million of cash and cash equivalents held in our foreign subsidiaries. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit agreement will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new solutions and product enhancements. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under our revolving credit agreement are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may enter into agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. As of March 31, 2019, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through license fees, maintenance fees, subscription fees, consulting and training fees, borrowings under our prior credit agreement and, to a lesser degree, the sale of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and capital expenditures. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the strategic growth of our company. Credit Agreement On March 11, 2019, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with the financial institutions identified therein as lenders, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner, and Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of America, N.A., as co-documentation agents. The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by us, and the Borrowers material domestic subsidiaries (the Guarantors and, together with the Borrower, the Loan Parties) and is supported by a security interest in substantially all of the Loan Parties personal property and assets. The Credit Agreement provides for an initial $150 million in commitments for revolving credit loans, with a $15 million letter of credit sublimit, which amount can be increased or decreased under specified circumstances. In addition, the Credit Agreement provides for the ability to incur uncommitted term loan facilities if, among other things, the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement), calculated giving pro forma effect to the requested term loan facility, is no greater than 3.50 to 1.00. Borrowings under this agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including for acquisitions permitted under the Credit Agreement. 25 Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are scheduled to mature on March 11, 2024. Payment of the borrowings may be accelerated upon the occurrence of certain customary events of default specified in the Credit Agreement, which includes failure to make payments relating to the borrowings under the Credit Agreement when due, the material inaccuracy of representations or warranties, failures to perform certain affirmative covenants, failures to refrain from actions or omissions prohibited by negative covenants, cross-defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency-related events, certain judgments, certain ERISA-related events, and a Change in Control (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants, including certain restrictions on the ability of the Loan Parties and their Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantee indebtedness of others; create liens on properties or assets; merge, consolidate, or dissolve; make certain loans or investments; sell or dispose of assets; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; pay dividends and other restricted payments; or enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio for each fiscal quarter shall not be more than 3.50 to 1.00, provided that such financial covenant level shall be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 during a fiscal quarter in which a Material Acquisition (as defined in the Credit Agreement) has been consummated. The interest rates applicable to revolving credit loans under the Credit Agreement are, at the Borrowers option, either (i) a base rate, which is equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus 1/2 of 1%, and (c) the one-month Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus 1%, in each case, plus an interest margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75% based on the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio, or (ii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus an interest margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75% based on the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio. The Adjusted LIBO Rate cannot be less than zero. The Borrower will pay an unused commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% per annum based on the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio. Any borrowing under the Credit Agreement may be repaid, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time without premium or penalty other than customary breakage costs, and any amounts repaid may be reborrowed. No mandatory prepayments will be required other than when borrowings and letter of credit usage exceed the aggregate commitments of all lenders. We had no outstanding revolving credit loan balance as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of March 31, 2019. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 17,228 $ 15,322 Net cash used in investing activities (2,295 ) (526 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 343 62 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 15,276 $ 14,858 Cash Flows from Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash provided by operating activities was $17.2 million, which consisted of a net loss of $8.4 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $10.4 million and a net change of $15.2 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $3.3 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $2.2 million, stock-based compensation of $4.6 million and changes in lease liabilities of $0.3 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was $15.2 million as a result of an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities due primarily to accrual of deferred rent and lease liabilities due to adoption of ASC 842 and a decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, partially offset by an increase in prepayments and other assets, a decrease in accounts payable due to timing of cash disbursements, and a decrease in deferred revenue due to the timing of billings of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services. 26 During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , cash provided by operating activities was $15.3 million, which consisted of a net loss of $ 2.3 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $ 9.5 million and a net change of $ 8.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $2.6 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.1 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $1.7 million and stock-based compensation of $5.1 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was $8.1 million as a result of a decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, an increase in deferred revenue due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services , partially offset by an increase in prepayments and other assets, a decrease in accounts payable due to timing of cash disbursements, a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities due primarily to accrual of additional commissions and bonuses and a decrease in income taxes payable . Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash used in investing activities was $2.3 million, consisting primarily of purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash used in investing activities was $0.5 million consisting primarily of purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash provided by financing activities was $0.3 million, consisting of $1.2 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options partially offset by debt issuance costs of $0.8 million associated with the new credit agreement. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by financing activities was $0.1 million proceeds from exercise of stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies associated with revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and income taxes are the most significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Therefore, these are considered to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no material changes to these estimates or the policies related to them during the three months ended March 31, 2019. For a full discussion of these estimates and policies, see the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 27