Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, capitalized internal-use software costs, income taxes, other non-income taxes, business combinations and valuation of goodwill and purchased intangible assets and stock-based compensation. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices, may harm our operating results. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could harm our operating results or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. 29 Table of Contents Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax, value-added and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability for past sales. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to collect additional or past sales tax could adversely affect our business. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our platform in various jurisdictions is unclear. It is possible that we could face sales tax audits and that our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as state tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional amounts as taxes from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We could also be subject to audits in states and international jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for sales taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We file sales tax returns in certain states within the United States as required by law and certain customer contracts for a portion of the products that we provide. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states and many of such states do not apply sales or similar taxes to the vast majority of the products that we provide. However, one or more states or foreign authorities could seek to impose additional sales, use or other tax collection and record-keeping obligations on us or may determine that such taxes should have, but have not been, paid by us. Liability for past taxes may also include substantial interest and penalty charges. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to compel us to collect and remit sales tax, use tax or other taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If our products fail to help our customers achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We believe we generate a portion of our revenues from our products and services because our customers use our products and services as part of their efforts to achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, and we expect that will continue for the foreseeable future. Examples of industry standards and government regulations include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS); the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and associated National Institute for Standards and Testing (NIST) Network Security Standards; the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, which governs food and drugs industries; the North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection Plan (NERC-CIP); the GDPR; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) Minimum Requirements for Risk Management; and the Monetary Authority of Singapores Technology Risk Management Notices. These industry standards may change with little or no notice, including changes that could make them more or less onerous for businesses. In addition, governments may also adopt new laws or regulations, or make changes to existing laws or regulations, that could affect whether our customers believe our solution assists them in maintaining compliance with such laws or regulations. If our solutions fail to expedite our customers compliance initiatives, our customers may lose confidence in our products and could switch to products offered by our competitors. In addition, if government regulations and industry standards related to IT security are changed in a manner that makes them less onerous, our customers may view compliance as less critical to their businesses, and our customers may be less willing to purchase our products and services. In either case, our sales and financial results would suffer. We are subject to governmental export controls and economic sanctions laws that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws, including the U.S. Commerce Departments Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. The U.S. export control laws and U.S. economic sanctions laws include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities and also require authorization for the export of encryption items. We are also subject to Israeli export controls on encryption technology for SecurityIQ (now IdentityIQ File Access Manager). If the applicable U.S. or Israeli requirements regarding export of encryption technology were to change or if we change the encryption means in our products, we may need to satisfy additional requirements in the United States or Israel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy any additional requirements under these circumstances in either the United States or Israel. 30 Table of Contents In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our services or could limit our customers ability to implement our services in those countries. Although we take precautions to prevent our products from being provided in violation of such laws, our products may have been in the past, and could in the future be, provided inadvertently in violation of such laws, despite the precautions we take. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges and monetary penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular transaction may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Although we take precautions to prevent transactions with U.S. sanction targets, we could inadvertently provide our products to persons prohibited by U.S. sanctions. This could result in negative consequences to us, including government investigations, penalties and harm to our reputation. Our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements are subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes, which would harm our operating results. Based on our current corporate structure, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing. The relevant taxing authorities may determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties. Such authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries. Any increase in the amount of taxes we pay or that are imposed on us could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our ability to use net operating losses and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code), a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to an annual limitation on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs), tax credits or other tax attributes, to offset future taxable income or taxes. For these purposes, an ownership change generally occurs where the aggregate stock ownership of one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of a corporations stock increases its ownership by more than 50 percentage points over its lowest ownership percentage within a specified testing period. Based on the results of the Companys Section 382 studies, we believe the annual limitation will not result in the expiration of any NOLs, tax credits or other tax attributes prior to utilization. However, future changes in our stock ownership, many of which are outside of our control, could result in another ownership change and subsequently could substantially impair our ability to utilize any NOLs, tax credits or other tax attributes. We function as a HIPAA business associate for certain of our customers and, as such, are subject to strict privacy and data security requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we could be subject to significant liability, all of which can adversely affect our business as well as our ability to attract and retain new customers. The Health Insurance Portability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and their respective implementing regulations (HIPAA), imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAAs security standards directly applicable to business associates. We function as a business associate for certain of our customers that are HIPAA covered entities and service providers and, in that context, we are regulated as a business associate for the purposes of HIPAA. If we are unable to comply with our obligations as a HIPAA business associate, we could face substantial civil and even criminal liability. Modifying the already stringent penalty structure that was present under HIPAA prior to HITECH, HITECH created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, many state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from HIPAA and each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect. 31 Table of Contents The HIPAA covered entities and service providers to which we provide services require us to enter into HIPAA-compliant business associate agreements with them. These agreements impose stringent data security obligations on us. If we are unable to meet the requirements of any of these business associate agreements, we could face contractual liability under the applicable business associate agreement as well as possible civil and criminal liability under HIPAA, all of which can have an adverse impact on our business and generate negative publicity, which, in turn, can have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain new customers. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions both domestic and abroad. The FCPA prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Bribery Act is similar but even broader in scope in that it prohibits bribery of private (non-government) persons as well. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. Our sales model presents some risk under these laws. We leverage third parties, including channel partners, to sell our solutions and conduct our business abroad. We and our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies, state-owned or affiliated entities and non-governmental commercial entities, and may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedure to address compliance with these laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, adverse media coverage and other consequences. Any investigations, actions or sanctions could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NYSE, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. We are subject to certain laws, regulations and requirements, including compliance with reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NYSE. For example, we have a comprehensive compliance function, internal governance policies, such as those relating to insider trading, and frequently involve and retain outside counsel and accountants to enhance our compliance efforts. Additionally, we must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including having our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report attesting to the effectiveness of our internal controls that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, being subject to these rules and regulations makes it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance as compared to when we were a private company, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us, as a public company, to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 32 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock could be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Our initial public offering occurred in November 2017. Therefore, there has only been a public market for our common stock for a short period of time. Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE, an active trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, be sustained. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in November 2017 at a price of $12.00 per share, our stock price has fluctuated significantly. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors listed below and other factors described in this Risk Factors section: announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; changes in how customers perceive the benefits of our platform; shifts in the mix of revenue attributable to perpetual licenses and to SaaS subscriptions from quarter to quarter; departures of key personnel; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; sales of large blocks of our common stock; actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our operating results; whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; changes in actual or future expectations of investors or securities analysts; litigation involving us, our industry or both; regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events in our domestic and foreign markets; cyber-attacks or incidents; and flash crashes, freeze flashes or other glitches that disrupt trading on the securities exchange on which we are listed. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the trading price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention and resources from our business. This could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If securities analysts or industry analysts were to downgrade our stock, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our competitive position could suffer, and our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock, to some extent, depends on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our stock or publish negative research or reports, cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports about our business, our competitive position could suffer, and our stock price and trading volume could decline. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. We may issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders. We may also raise capital through equity financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies and issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock to decline. 33 Table of Contents Our charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors who are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; removal of directors only for cause; the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; allowing only our directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by or at the direction of our board of directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our charter relating to the management of our business (including our classified board structure) or certain provisions of our bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquirer to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirers own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; and a prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of our board of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates. Our charter also contains a provision that provides us with protections similar to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), and prevents us from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with an interested stockholder (i.e., a person or group who acquires at least 15% of our voting stock) for a period of three years from the date such person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. 34 Table of Contents Our charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our charter or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our charter described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our charter inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The enforceability of similar exclusive forum provisions in other companies charters has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with one or more actions or proceedings described above, a court could rule that this provision in our charter is inapplicable or unenforceable. For example, the choice of forum provisions summarized above are not intended to, and would not, apply to suits brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Additionally, there is uncertainty as to whether our choice of forum provisions would be enforceable with respect to suits brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), or other claims for which the federal courts have concurrent jurisdiction, and in any event stockholders will not be deemed to have waived the Companys compliance with federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder. Risks Related to the Notes Servicing our future debt may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to do so. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.125% convertible senior notes due 2024 ( the Notes) and any future borrowings under the Credit Agreement, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms. In addition, our credit facility and any of our future debt agreements may contain restrictive covenants that prohibit us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our debt. In addition, holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In such event, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time to make repurchases of the Notes surrendered therefor. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes may be limited by our existing Credit Agreement or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture governing the Notes would constitute a default under such indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our existing credit facility or future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes. 35 Table of Contents In addition, our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could: make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund acquisitions, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes; and make an acquisition of our company less attractive or more difficult. Any of these factors could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of the Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The Capped Call Transactions relating to the Notes may affect the value of our common stock. Our Notes may become in the future convertible at the option of their holders under certain circumstances. The conversion of some or all of the Notes would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering shares of our common stock upon any conversion of such Notes. If holders of the Notes elect to convert their Notes, we may settle our conversion obligation by delivering to them a significant number of shares of our common stock, which would cause dilution to our existing stockholders. In connection with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions (Capped Call Transactions) with the option counterparties. The Capped Call Transactions will generally reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any potential cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the Capped Call Transactions, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates have purchased shares of our common stock and/or enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, including with certain investors in the Notes. Such activity could increase (or reduce the size of any decrease in) the market price of our common stock. In addition, we expect that the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the Notes). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Also, if any such Capped Call Transactions fail to become effective, whether or not the offering of the Notes is completed, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of our common stock. In addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. 36 Table of Contents The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results . In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (ASC 470-20). Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid in capital section of stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheet at issuance, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report larger net losses or lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current periods amortization of the debt discount and the instruments non-convertible coupon interest rate, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of such Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of such Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board recently published an exposure draft proposing to amend these accounting standards to eliminate the treasury stock method for convertible instruments and instead require application of the if-converted method. Under that method, if it is adopted, diluted earnings per share would generally be calculated assuming that all the Notes were converted solely into shares of our common stock at the beginning of the reporting period, unless the result would be anti-dilutive. If we are unable or otherwise elect not to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. Our corporate headquarters in Austin, Texas consists of 164,818 square feet of space under a lease that expires in April 2029. Our prior corporate headquarters occupied 44,633 square feet in Austin, Texas under a lease that expired in the first quarter of 2019, which coincided with the commencement of the lease for our current corporate headquarters. In addition to our headquarters, we have additional office space in Pune, India, Tel Aviv, Israel, London, United Kingdom, Denver, Colorado and San Jose, California. We lease all of our facilities. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and anticipate that suitable additional space will be readily available to accommodate any foreseeable expansion of our operations. For more information about our lease commitments, see also Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to our consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are not currently a party to, nor is our property currently subject to, any material legal proceedings other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business. We are not aware of any inquiries or investigations into our business. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. None. 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol SAIL. Holders of Record As of February 17, 2020, there were 28 holders of record of our common stock including the Cede & Co, a nominee for The Depository Trust Company, or DTC, which holds shares of our common stock on behalf of an indeterminate number of beneficial owners. All of the shares of common stock held by brokerage firms, banks and other financial institutions as nominees for beneficial owners are deposited into participant accounts at DTC and are considered to be held of record by Cede & Co. as one stockholder. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the growth and development of our business. Any further determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. In addition, our credit agreement places restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Stock Performance Graph The following is not soliciting material, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing . 38 Table of Contents The graph assumes that $100 was invested (i) in the Companys common stock on November 17, 2017 (the date on which initial trading in the Companys common stock commenced), and (ii) on October 31, 2017, in the NYSE Composite Index and the S&P 600 Information Technology Index, and in each case, that all dividends were reinvested . The stock price performance on the following graph is required by the SEC and is not necessarily intended to forecast or be indicative of future stock price performance . Company/Index 11/17/2017 12/31/2017 3/31/2018 6/30/2018 9/30/2018 12/31/2018 3/31/2019 6/30/2019 9/30/2019 12/31/2019 SAIL $ 100.00 $ 111.54 $ 159.15 $ 188.77 $ 261.69 $ 180.69 $ 220.92 $ 154.15 $ 143.77 $ 181.54 NYSE Composite $ 100.00 $ 104.23 $ 101.92 $ 103.08 $ 108.50 $ 94.91 $ 106.64 $ 110.37 $ 110.69 $ 119.11 S&P 600 IT Index $ 100.00 $ 94.34 $ 94.08 $ 98.33 $ 102.06 $ 82.25 $ 96.88 $ 98.94 $ 100.71 $ 112.39 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Purchase of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. 39 Table of Contents Use of Proceeds from Initial Public Offering of Common S tock On November 16, 2017, the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-221036) relating to our initial public offering was declared effective by the SEC and we priced our initial public offering. Pursuant to the Registration Statement, we registered an aggregate of 23,000,000 shares of our common stock, of which 15,800,000 shares were sold by us and 7,200,000 shares were sold by certain selling stockholders named therein at a price to the public of $12.00 per share (for an aggregate offering price of $276.0 million). We received net proceeds of approximately $172.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $13.3 million and offering-related expenses of $4.4 million. No payments were made to our directors or officers or their associates, holders of 10% or more of any class of our equity securities or any affiliates. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Jefferies LLC and RBC Capital Markets, LLC acted as book-running managers and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Canaccord Genuity Inc. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. acted as co-managers (collectively, the Underwriters) for our initial public offering. Our initial public offering closed in November 2017. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our initial public offering as described in our final prospectus dated November 16, 2017 and filed with the SEC on November 17, 2017 pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2019, we have used $160.0 million of the proceeds from our initial public offering to repay borrowings under our term loan facility and approximately $1.8 million of such proceeds to pay a related prepayment premium. As of December 31, 2019, the remaining net proceeds are held in cash and have not been deployed. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 and for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 has been derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes to our consolidated financial statements and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Historical financial information as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our selected consolidated financial data may not be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (1) 2016 (1) 2015 (1) (In thousands, except per share data) Total revenue $ 288,515 $ 248,920 $ 186,056 $ 132,412 $ 95,356 Gross profit $ 223,040 $ 194,250 $ 141,466 $ 95,374 $ 66,097 Income (loss) from operations $ (9,433 ) $ 10,913 $ 9,943 $ 2,729 $ (8,173 ) Net income (loss) $ (8,500 ) $ 3,670 $ (7,592 ) $ (3,173 ) $ (10,807 ) Net income (loss) per share Basic $ (0.10 ) $ 0.04 $ (0.55 ) $ (0.58 ) $ (0.74 ) Diluted $ (0.10 ) $ 0.04 $ (0.55 ) $ (0.58 ) $ (0.74 ) Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 88,907 86,495 52,340 45,933 43,929 Diluted 88,907 90,003 52,340 45,933 43,929 (1) The comparative information for years prior to 2018 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard and is reported in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 605 (ASC 605). See Note 3 Revenue Recognition of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on March 18, 2019 (the 2018 Annual Report) for additional information related to our adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard (ASC 606). 40 Table of Contents C onsolidated Balance Sheets Data: As of December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (1) 2016 (1) 2015 (1) (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 443,795 $ 70,964 $ 116,049 $ 18,214 $ 14,896 Working capital (2) $ 538,986 $ 172,045 $ 172,492 $ 60,047 $ 27,982 Total assets $ 990,078 $ 534,434 $ 506,433 $ 387,410 $ 371,504 Deferred revenue, current and non-current $ 152,033 $ 114,301 $ 83,125 $ 55,104 $ 34,888 Convertible senior notes, net $ 309,051 $ $ $ $ Long-term debt $ $ $ 68,329 $ 107,344 $ 99,770 Operating lease liabilities, current and non-current (3) $ 41,986 $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ 555,951 $ 156,741 $ 178,036 $ 177,307 $ 160,465 Redeemable convertible preferred stock $ $ $ $ 223,987 $ 222,898 Total stockholders' equity (deficit) $ 434,127 $ 377,693 $ 328,397 $ (13,884 ) $ (11,859 ) (1) The comparative information for years prior to 2018 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard and is reported in accordance with ASC 605. See Note 3 Revenue Recognition of our 2018 Annual Report for additional information related to our adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard (ASC 606). (2) We define working capital as current assets less current liabilities, excluding deferred revenue. (3) The comparative information for years prior to 2019 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of ASC 842 as we adopted the standard using the modified retrospective transition method. For additional information see Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies of our accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. 41 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the section titled Selected Financial Data and the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full fiscal year or any other period. The Company has elected to omit a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of certain 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017. Such discussion and analysis can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on March 18, 2019 and is incorporated by reference herein. Overview SailPoint is the leading provider of enterprise identity governance solutions. Our SailPoint Predictive Identity platform provides organizations with critical visibility into who currently has access to which resources, who should have access to those resources, and how that access is being used. We offer both software and software as a service (SaaS) solutions, which empower our customers to efficiently and securely govern the digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners, software bots and other human and non-human users, and manage their constantly changing access rights to enterprise applications and data across hybrid IT environments, spanning on-premises, cloud and mobile applications and file storage platforms. We help customers enable their businesses with more agile and innovative IT, streamline delivery of access to their businesses, enhance their security posture and better meet compliance and regulatory requirements. Our customers include many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations, including commercial enterprises, financial institutions and governments. We believe that our SailPoint Predictive Identity platform is a critical, foundational layer of a modern cyber security strategy. Its open architecture allows it to complement and build upon traditional perimeter- and endpoint-centric security solutions, which on their own are increasingly insufficient to secure organizations, and their applications and data. We were founded by visionary industry veterans to develop a new category of identity management solutions and address emerging identity governance challenges. Since our inception, we have focused on driving innovation in the identity market, with our key milestones including: in 2007, we pioneered identity governance through our release of IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution; in 2010, we revolutionized provisioning by integrating it with IdentityIQ into a single solution; in 2013, we introduced our SaaS identity governance offering, IdentityNow; in 2015, we extended identity governance by adding our identity governance for data stored in files solution, SecurityIQ (now referred as the File Access Manager module within IdentityIQ), which manages user access to unstructured data, a rapidly growing area of risk; and in 2017, we further extended identity governance with the introduction of our advanced identity analytics offering, IdentityAI, which is designed to use machine learning technologies to enable rapid detection of security threats before they turn into security breaches. Our solutions address the complex needs of global enterprises and mid-market organizations. As of December 31, 2019, 1,469 customers across a wide variety of industries were using our products to enable and secure digital identities across the globe. No single customer represented more than 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 or 2018. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our revenue was $288.5 million and $248.9 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we had a net loss of $8.5 million compared to net income of $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash provided by operations was $50.1 million and $37.5 million, respectively. 42 Table of Contents Our success is principally dependent on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Delivering these solutions is challenging because our customers have large, complex IT environments, often rely on both legacy and innovative technologies, and deploy differen t business models, including on- premise s and cloud models . Rising security threats and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy and internal IT controls create new opportunities for our industry and require us to adapt our solutions to be successful. Maintaining our historical growth rates is also challenging because our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our global presence, increase the number of companies we can address with our current solutions, and invest in new vertical markets, while competing against much larger companies with more recognizable brands and financial resources. Although we seek to grow rapidly, we also focus on managing our net cash from operations while continuing to invest in our platform and to deliver innovative solutions to our customers. We believe enterprises are increasingly embracing the cloud to house their critical security infrastructure. As a result, a growing number of enterprises are changing their approach to identity governance and now prefer SaaS in place of purchasing software via a license and independently operating their identity infrastructure. This industry shift aligns well with our current product strategy. Our product strategy is to (1) accelerate innovation within our core identity governance SaaS offerings, (2) deliver continued innovation as we execute against our vision for SailPoint Predictive Identity, and (3) ensure that as we deliver these new innovations, they work in concert with our on-premises offerings in addition to our SaaS offerings. We believe that continued growth of subscription revenue, which includes revenue from our SaaS offerings, as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Nevertheless, our gross margins vary depending on the type of solution we sell. As a result, a shift in the sales mix of our solutions could affect our performance relative to historical results. Our Business Model We deliver an integrated set of solutions that supports all aspects of identity governance, including provisioning, access request, compliance controls, password management and identity governance for data stored in files. Our most recent innovation, the SailPoint Predictive Identity platform, embeds advanced artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) into our open identity platform to deliver actionable insights and recommendations to reduce risk, accelerate deployment and simplify administration. Our solutions are built on our open identity platform, which enables connectivity to a variety of security and operational IT applications. Our open identity platform extends the reach of our identity governance processes and enable effective identity governance controls across customer environments. Our set of solutions currently consists of (i) IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution, which can be deployed in customers data center or hosted in the public cloud, (ii) IdentityNow, our cloud-based, multi-tenant identity governance platform, which is delivered as a SaaS subscription offering and (iii) IdentityAI, our multi-tenant advanced AI and ML SaaS offering that infuses intelligent insights and recommendations into our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions to help organizations detect areas of high risk, including potential threats, before they turn into security breaches. See Part I, Item 1. BusinessProduct, Subscription, and Support Offerings for more information regarding our solutions. For our IdentityIQ solutions, our customers typically purchase a perpetual software license, which includes one year of maintenance. Our maintenance provides software maintenance as well as access to our technical support services during the maintenance term. After the initial maintenance period, customers with perpetual licenses may renew their maintenance agreement for an additional fee. For our SaaS offerings, IdentityNow and IdentityAI, for a subscription fee, we offer customers access to these solutions and infrastructure support for the duration of their subscription agreement. Our standard subscription agreement for our SaaS offerings has a duration of three years. Pricing for each of our solutions is dependent on the number of digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners, software bots and other human and non-human users that the customer is entitled to govern with the solution. We also package and price our IdentityIQ, IdentityNow and IdentityAI solutions into modules. Each module has unique functionalities, and our customers are able to purchase one or more modules, depending on their needs. We also offer advanced integration modules for key applications and systems which can be purchased in addition to our base solution modules. They are also priced based on the total number of identities. Thus, our revenue from any customer is generally determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules (for our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions) purchased by the customer. 43 Table of Contents Our go-to-market strategy consists of both direct sales and indirect sales through our partner network consisting of technology partners, system integrators, a growing network of value-added resellers and our alliance partners . We work closely with systems integrators, many of whom have dedicated SailPoint practices (including Accenture, Deloitte, EY, KPMG , and PwC), with some dating back more than nine years, and resellers (including value-added resellers such as Optiv) to scale growth, help generate new opportunities, optimize customer experience and increase profitability as well as sales efficiency . W e frequently cooperate with systems integrators to make joint sales proposals to address our mutual customers requirements. We do not have any material payment obligations to systems integrators, resellers or our technology partners; nor do they have any material payment obligations to us, except that resellers typically purchase solutions directly from us and resell to customers. See Part I, Item 1. BusinessPartnerships and Strategic Relationships for more information regarding our partnership network. In addition to our solutions, we offer professional services to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform a significant majority of all initial and follow-on implementation work for our customers. Most of our consulting services are priced on a time-and-materials basis; our training services are provided through multiple pricing models, including on a per-person basis (for courses provided at our headquarters and on-site at our customers offices) and a flat-rate basis (for our e-learning course). We devote significant resources to acquire new customers, in both existing and new markets, in order to grow our customer base. In addition, we focus on three distinct opportunities to increase sales to existing customers: (i) expand the number of digital identities; (ii) up-sell additional modules or target storage systems, as applicable, within a single solution; and (iii) cross-sell additional solutions. As part of our product strategy for the SailPoint Predictive Identity platform, we acquired Orkus, Inc. (Orkus) and Overwatch.ID, Inc. (Overwatch.ID). Orkus is engaged in the development and license of software products to assist customers in monitoring and controlling access and authorization across hybrid cloud assets. Overwatch.ID is engaged in the development and license of software products focused on access controls security for cloud applications, cloud computing, hybrid IT environments, and on-premises infrastructure. See Note 5 Business Combinations in our notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by our ability to: Add New Customers Within Existing Markets . Based on data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, we believe that we have penetrated approximately 2% of over 65,000 companies in the countries where we have customers today. As a result, there is significant opportunity to expand our footprint in our existing markets through new, greenfield installations and displacement of our competitors legacy solutions. We plan to grow our sales organization, expand and leverage our channel partners and enhance our marketing efforts. G enerate Additional Sales to Existing Customers . We believe that our existing customer base provides us with a significant opportunity to drive incremental sales. In most cases, our customers initially purchase a subset of the modules or offerings we provide based on their immediate need. We focus on generating more revenue from the modules that our customers have already purchased from us as our customers grow the number of identities our solutions manage and govern and as our customers deploy our solutions across other business units or geographies within their organizations. This is especially true when it comes to our new and expanded SaaS offerings, including AI and cloud governance. Over time, we also identify up-selling and cross-selling opportunities and seek to sell additional modules and offerings to our existing customers. 44 Table of Contents Retain Customers. We believe that our ability to retain our customers is an important component of our growth strategy and reflects the long-term value of our customer relationships. For example, when we add a new customer, we generate new license revenue. If the customer renews, we generate incremental maintenance revenue. As we add new IdentityIQ customers, our high renewal rates result in maintenance revenue. Our key strategies to maintain our high renewal rates include focusing on the quality and reliability of our solutions, customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our solutions, providing consistent software upgrades and having dedicated customer success teams. Expand into New Markets . We expect to continue to invest significantly in sales, marketing and customer service, as well as our indirect channel partner network, to expand into new geographies and vertical markets. We believe that our market opportunity is large and growing and that the global cyber security market represents a significant growth opportunity for us. In 2019, we generated only 29% of our revenue outside of the United States. We plan to leverage our existing strong relationships with global system integrators and channel partners to grow our presence in Europe, Asia Pacific and other international markets. Key Business Metrics In addition to our GAAP financial information such as revenue and net income discussed above, we monitor the following key metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (1) Number of customers 1,469 1,173 933 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 50 % 42 % 38 % (1) The comparative information for 2017 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard and is reported in accordance with ASC 605. See Note 3 Revenue Recognition of our 2018 Annual Report for additional information related to our adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard (ASC 606). Number of Customers . We believe that the size of our customer base is an indicator of our market penetration and that our net customer additions are an indicator of the growth of our business and our future revenue opportunity. We define a customer as a distinct entity, division or business unit of an organization that receives support or has the right to use our cloud-based solutions as of the specified measurement date. Subscription Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue . Subscription revenue is a portion of our total revenue and is derived from (i) IdentityIQ, maintenance and support agreements, but not licenses, and (ii) IdentityNow and IdentityAI, our SaaS offerings where customers enter into subscription agreements with us. As we generally sell our solutions on a per-identity basis, our SaaS subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern, and the ongoing price paid per-identity under a maintenance and support agreement. Thus, we consider our subscription revenue to be the recurring portion of our revenue base and believe that its continued growth as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Because we recognize our subscription revenue ratably over the duration of those agreements, a portion of the revenue we recognize each period is derived from agreements we entered into in prior periods. In contrast, we typically recognize license revenue upon entering into the applicable license, the timing of which is less predictable and may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. 45 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue License Revenue. We generate license revenue through the sale of our on-premises software license agreements t o new customers and sales of additional licenses to the existing customers who can purchase additional users for existing licenses or purchase new licenses . Customers may also purchase term license agreements, under which we recognize the license fee upfront. License transactions generally include an amount for first-year maintenance, which we recognize as subscription revenue. We typically recognize license revenue upon delivering the applicable license. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Over time, we will continue to expect license revenue to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue as we continue to focus on increasing our subscription revenue as a key growth initiative. Subscription Revenue. Our subscription revenue consists of fees for (i) ongoing maintenance and support of our licensed offerings and (ii) subscription fees for access to, and related support for, our SaaS offerings. We typically invoice subscription fees in advance, in annual installments, and recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the applicable agreement. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Over time, we expect subscription revenue will increase as a percentage of total revenue as we continue to focus on increasing subscription revenue as a key growth initiative. Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue consists primarily of fees from professional services provided to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services are priced on a time-and-materials basis, and we generally invoice customers monthly as the work is performed. We generally have standalone value for our professional services and recognize revenue as services are performed based on an estimated fair value as a separate unit of accounting. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform the significant majority of all initial and follow-on configuration and optimization work for our customers. Over time, we expect our professional services revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline as we increasingly rely on partners to help our customers deploy our software. Cost of Revenue Cost of License Revenue . Cost of license revenue consists of amortization expense for developed technology acquired and third-party royalties. Cost of Subscription Revenue . Cost of subscription revenue consists primarily of employee compensation cost (which consists of salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation), costs of our customer support organization, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels, allocated overhead, amortization expense for developed technology acquired and third-party cloud-based hosting costs. Cost of Services and Other Revenue . Cost of services and other revenue consists primarily of employee compensation costs of our professional services and training organizations, travel-related costs, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels and allocated overhead. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. Gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the mix of our license, subscription, and services and other revenue, the costs associated with third-party cloud-based hosting services for our SaaS offerings, and the extent to which we expand our customer support and services organizations. We expect that our overall gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these various factors. Also, we expect our investment in technology to expand the capability of our services, enabling us to improve our gross margin over time. 46 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs, allocated overhead and software and maintenance expenses, which includes cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based solution. We believe that continued investment in our offerings is vital to the growth of our business, and we intend to continue to invest in product development and in SailPoint Labs, our dedicated, stand-alone technology investigation and engineering group, to continue to innovate and offer our customers new solutions and to enhance our existing solutions as our business grows. See Part I, Item 1. BusinessResearch and Development for more information. We expect such investment to increase on a dollar basis as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs for corporate personnel, such as those in our executive, human resources, facilities, accounting and finance and IT departments. In addition, general and administrative expenses include third-party professional fees and sponsor-related costs, as well as all other supporting corporate expenses not allocated to other departments. Our general and administrative expenses increase on a dollar basis as our business grows. Also, we have incurred increased general and administrative expenses as a result of becoming a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations and professional services. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs, sales commissions, costs of general marketing and promotional activities, travel-related expenses and allocated overhead. Under ASC 606, sales commissions earned by our sales force and the related payroll taxes, a primary component of deferred contract acquisition costs, which are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we have determined to be generally five years. U nder ASC 605, the Company generally capitalized deferred contract costs associated with subscription revenues, which were subsequently amortized over the term of the subscription while deferred contract cost related to license revenues were previously recognized as incurred. We expect to continue to invest in our sales force for expansion to new geographic and vertical markets. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase on a dollar basis and continue to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. Allocated Overhead. We allocate shared costs, such as facilities costs (including rent and utilities), information technology costs and recruiting costs, to all departments based on headcount. As such, allocated shared costs are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of interest expense, net of interest income, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses related to the impact of transactions denominated in a foreign currency. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased and we expect this to continue. Interest expense, net of interest income, consists primarily of interest, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, loss on the modification and extinguishment of debt and prepayment penalties on our current and prior credit agreements and Notes. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Our provision for income taxes consists of U.S. and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to foreign withholding taxes; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes; unanticipated changes in tax rates; differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation and R&D credits. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. 47 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (1) (In thousands) Revenue Licenses $ 102,800 $ 105,000 $ 79,209 Subscription 143,390 104,033 71,007 Services and other 42,325 39,887 35,840 Total revenue 288,515 248,920 186,056 Cost of revenue Licenses 4,239 4,634 4,561 Subscription (2) 26,877 20,734 16,406 Services and other (2) 34,359 29,302 23,623 Total cost of revenue 65,475 54,670 44,590 Gross profit 223,040 194,250 141,466 Operating expenses Research and development (2) 56,120 43,154 33,331 General and administrative (2) 39,816 34,781 17,678 Sales and marketing (2) 136,537 105,402 80,514 Total operating expenses 232,473 183,337 131,523 Income (loss) from operations (9,433 ) 10,913 9,943 Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (2,573 ) (4,707 ) (14,783 ) Other, net (1,082 ) (1,446 ) (459 ) Total other expense, net (3,655 ) (6,153 ) (15,242 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (13,088 ) 4,760 (5,299 ) Income tax (expense) benefit 4,588 (1,090 ) (2,293 ) Net income (loss) $ (8,500 ) $ 3,670 $ (7,592 ) (1) The comparative information for 2017 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard and is reported in accordance with ASC 605. See Note 3 Revenue Recognition of our 2018 Annual Report for additional information related to our adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard (ASC 606). (2) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 1,142 $ 945 $ 133 Cost of revenue - services and other 1,379 1,504 458 Research and development 3,517 3,026 658 General and administrative 5,990 7,798 2,062 Sales and marketing 6,686 5,702 1,203 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 18,714 $ 18,975 $ 4,514 48 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (1) Revenue Licenses 35 % 42 % 43 % Subscription 50 42 38 Services and other 15 16 19 Total revenue 100 100 100 Cost of revenue Licenses 2 2 2 Subscription 9 8 9 Services and other 12 12 13 Total cost of revenue 23 22 24 Gross profit 77 78 76 Operating expenses Research and development 20 17 18 General and administrative 14 14 10 Sales and marketing 47 42 43 Total operating expenses 81 73 71 Income (loss) from operations (4 ) 5 5 Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (1 ) (2 ) (8 ) Other, net (1 ) Total other expense, net (1 ) (3 ) (8 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (5 ) 2 (3 ) Income tax (expense) benefit 2 (1 ) Net income (loss) (3 )% 2 % (4 )% (1) The comparative information for 2017 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard and is reported in accordance with ASC 605. See Note 3 Revenue Recognition of our 2018 Annual Report for additional information related to our adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard (ASC 606). Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue Licenses $ 102,800 $ 105,000 $ (2,200 ) (2 )% Subscription 143,390 104,033 39,357 38 % Services and other 42,325 39,887 2,438 6 % Total revenue $ 288,515 $ 248,920 $ 39,595 16 % License Revenue. License revenue decreased by $2.2 million, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. While we increased revenue in follow-on license revenue from existing customers 4% year-over-year, the increase was offset by a 5% year-over-year decrease from new customers. During the year ended December 31, 2019, license revenue from new customers was $63.6 million and license revenue from existing customers was $39.2 million. Our customer base increased by 296, or 25%, from 1,173 customers at December 31, 2018 to 1,469 customers at December 31, 2019. Our revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased. 49 Table of Contents Subscription Revenue. S ubscription revenue increased by $39.4 million, or 38% , for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to an increase in ongoing maintenance revenue from our increased installed base and new sales of our SaaS offerings . During the year ended December 31, 2019, s ubscription revenue from new customers was $ 18.5 million and s ubscription revenue from existing customers was $ 124.9 million . Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $2.4 million, or 6% for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to higher demand for services from an increased number of customers using our consulting and training services. Geographic Regions . Our operations in the United States contributed the largest portion of our revenue in each year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 because of our larger and more established sales force and partner network in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue from EMEA and the rest of the world also increased for year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to our investment in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. The following table sets forth, for each of the periods presented, our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 204,500 71 % $ 171,497 69 % EMEA (1) 54,315 19 % 49,871 20 % Rest of the World (1) 29,700 10 % 27,552 11 % Total revenue $ 288,515 100 % $ 248,920 100 % (1) No single country represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit Licenses $ 98,561 $ 100,366 $ (1,805 ) (2 )% Subscription 116,513 83,299 33,214 40 % Services and other 7,966 10,585 (2,619 ) (25 )% Total gross profit $ 223,040 $ 194,250 $ 28,790 15 % Gross margin Licenses 96 % 96 % Subscription 81 % 80 % Services and other 19 % 27 % Total gross margin 77 % 78 % Licenses. License gross profit decreased by $1.8 million, or 2%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily the result of decreased license revenues. 50 Table of Contents Subscription. S ubscription gross profit increased by $33.2 million, or 40% , during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily the result of $39.4 million year-over-year growth in subscription revenue, coupled with an increase in corresponding costs of subscription revenue at a rate lower than our revenue growth as we continue to build economies of scale within our customer support organization and our utilization of cloud-based hosting services. Approximately $3.9 million of the year-over-year increase in cost of subscription revenue was due to increases in headcount and related allocated overhead to support the growth of our SaaS offering s and ongoing maintenance for our expanding licensed customer base . Additionally, approximately $ 2.5 million of the year-over-year increase in cost of subscription revenue was due to increased cloud-based hosting costs for our SaaS offerings . Services and Other . Services and other gross profit decreased by $2.6 million, or 25%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily attributable to the higher costs associated with expanding our infrastructure for our professional services and training organization to support an increasing number of customers, partially offset by increased revenues due to customer growth. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Operating expenses Research and development $ 56,120 $ 43,154 $ 12,966 30 % General and administrative 39,816 34,781 5,035 14 % Sales and marketing 136,537 105,402 31,135 30 % Total operating expenses $ 232,473 $ 183,337 $ 49,136 27 % Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $13.0 million, or 30%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Approximately 92% of the increase was the result of an increase in headcount and related allocated overhead to optimize and expand our product offerings as well as pursue innovation in identity governance. Substantially all of the remaining increase in research and development expenses was the result of an increase in amortization of intangibles, primarily from our acquired patents in the fourth quarter of 2018 which incurred a full year of amortization in 2019. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $5.0 million, or 14%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by approximately $1.9 million, or 37%, in professional services expense comprised of legal fees, accounting and consulting fees associated with issuance and sale of the Notes and purchase of capped call transactions, and acquisition related costs, while approximately $1.5 million, or 29%, of the increase was attributable to software maintenance and subscription expenses and approximately $1.3 million, or 25%, of the increase was a result of severance expense related to the resignation of our former Chief Operating Officer. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $31.1 million, or 30%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Approximately $25.0 million, or 80%, of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount and related allocated overhead to support increased penetration into our existing customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. We also experienced year-over-year increases in travel costs and advertising costs of $1.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2019. Additionally, approximately $1.1 million, or 4%, of the increase was a result of severance expense related to the resignation of our former Chief Revenue Officer. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net, decreased by $2.1 million, or 45%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company incurred approximately $1.8 million loss on the modification and extinguishment of debt and approximately $0.4 million of prepayment penalties from the paydown of our term loan principal balance and related amortization of issuance costs under the previous credit facility. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company earned $2.5 million of interest income on money market funds utilized from the issuance of the Notes, which was offset by $4.7 million of amortization of debt discount and issuance costs related to the Notes and amortization of issuance costs related to the our revolving credit agreement. 51 Table of Contents Income Tax (Expense) Benefit The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an income tax expense of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, leading to a net benefit of $5.7 million year-over-year. This is primarily due to research and development credits and the tax impact of stock compensation. Provision for income taxes consists of U.S. federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. While we are still in an overall deferred tax liability position for federal and state tax purposes, we still maintain a full valuation allowance for our Israel tax position due its lack of taxable earnings for the foreseeable future. Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to the valuation allowances on certain foreign deferred tax assets, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; unanticipated changes in tax rates; and differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation, foreign withholding taxes and R&D credits. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax if such earnings are distributed to the U.S. With the exception of 2018, we have incurred net losses each year since our inception. We have since begun to utilize our net operating losses for federal income tax purposes. Thus, our tax expense to date relates primarily to state as well as foreign income taxes. The effective tax rate for years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are 35.1%, 22.9% and (43.3)%, respectively. The main drivers for the differences in the rates from the prior period to the current period are related to a decrease in pre-tax book income, the impact of stock compensation and increase in foreign tax liabilities. We do not consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of India, to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. Under the TCJA, global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions apply providing an incremental tax on low taxed foreign income. The GILTI provisions require the Company to include in its U.S. income tax return foreign subsidiary earnings in excess of an allowable return on the foreign subsidiarys tangible assets. The Company is currently in a tested loss and does not incur a GILTI tax. In India, we continue to invest and grow our research and development activities and have no plans to repatriate undistributed earning held in India back to the U.S. parent company, and therefore consider earnings in India to be permanently reinvested. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) The following table sets forth selected summarized unaudited quarterly financial information for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. The information for each quarter has been prepared on a basis consistent with our audited consolidated financial statements, and reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature that are necessary for a fair presentation of the financial information contained in those statements. The following quarterly financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Three Months Ended 12/31/2019 9/30/2019 6/30/2019 3/31/2019 12/31/2018 9/30/2018 6/30/2018 3/31/2018 (In thousands, except per share data) Total revenue $ 88,999 $ 75,879 $ 63,054 $ 60,583 $ 80,588 $ 65,735 $ 53,656 $ 48,941 Gross profit $ 71,032 $ 58,949 $ 47,345 $ 45,714 $ 66,078 $ 51,721 $ 40,280 $ 36,171 Income (loss) from operations $ 5,994 $ 1,335 $ (10,079 ) $ (6,683 ) $ 11,189 $ 4,783 $ (1,352 ) $ (3,707 ) Net income (loss) $ 5,419 $ 3,668 $ (9,197 ) $ (8,390 ) $ 5,143 $ 1,808 $ (979 ) $ (2,302 ) Net income (loss) per share Basic: $ 0.06 $ 0.04 $ (0.10 ) $ (0.10 ) $ 0.06 $ 0.02 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.03 ) Diluted: $ 0.06 $ 0.04 $ (0.10 ) $ (0.10 ) $ 0.06 $ 0.02 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.03 ) Weighted average shares outstanding Basic: 89,403 89,143 88,767 88,295 87,171 86,825 86,246 85,719 Diluted: 91,022 90,808 88,767 88,295 90,235 90,355 86,246 85,719 52 Table of Contents Seasonality and Quarterly Trends Our quarterly results reflect seasonality in the sale of our products and services. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. Our quarterly total revenue increased sequentially within each calendar year presented; however, we experienced a decline sequentially from the fourth quarter of each year to the first quarter of the subsequent year due to increased customer purchasing activity in each fourth quarter as a result of customer budget and purchasing trends . We continue to experience growth in revenue when comparing similar periods year over year as a result of our ability to attract new customers and expand our product offerings within our existing customer base. Our operating expenses have generally increased sequentially as a result of our growth and are primarily related to increases in personnel-related costs to support our expanded operations and our continued investment in and marketing of our platform infrastructure and service capabilities. Also, general and administrative expenses have increased as a result of an increase in professional services expense comprised of legal fees, accounting and consulting fees associated with the implementation of ASC 606, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, issuance and sale of the Notes and capped call transactions and acquisition related costs. In 2019, we issued the Notes, which incur a significant amount of amortization of debt discount and issuance costs and will continue to going forward. Quarterly Key Business Metrics Three Months Ended 12/31/2019 9/30/2019 6/30/2019 3/31/2019 12/31/2018 9/30/2018 6/30/2018 3/31/2018 Number of customers 1,469 1,341 1,278 1,219 1,173 1,090 1,031 984 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 45 % 49 % 53 % 53 % 37 % 42 % 45 % 46 % Our number of customers increased as of December 31, 2019 to 1,469 from 984 as of March 31, 2018. Our growth in customer count was driven by increased demand of our products and market acceptance of our subscription services as well as an increased presence of our product offerings across all of our geographies. The growth in our sales of product and services was consistent with our plans to continue expanding our global presence, through our channel partner network which allows us to target new customers while continuing to support our existing customers. Our quarterly subscription revenue increased in each period presented primarily due to increases in maintenance renewals as a result of our expanding licensed customer base. Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue experienced a decline sequentially in fourth quarter of each year due to composition of revenue mix between license and subscription as well as timing of sales volume. For additional information, see Seasonality and Quarterly Trend discussion above. Sales of subscriptions to our platform also continue to grow as a result of the expanding breadth and functionality of our platform, increasing brand awareness, and the success of our sales efforts with new and existing customers. We recognize revenue from subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract period; therefore, changes in our sales activity in a period may not be as apparent as a change to our revenue until future periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately $443.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, $75.0 million of availability under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) and $6.0 million in our irrevocable, cash collateralized, unconditional standby letter of credit, issued primarily in connection with our corporate headquarters lease. See Item 2. Properties of this Annual Report for more information regarding our corporate headquarters lease. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately $3.7 million of cash and cash equivalents held in our foreign subsidiaries. 53 Table of Contents We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our C redit A greement will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the ti ming and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new solutions and product enhancements. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may borrow under our Credit Agreement or seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may enter into agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. Also, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. The Company acquired two companies during the fourth quarter of 2019 resulting in total purchase consideration of $37.4 million, including $5.0 million in indemnification obligations . For more information, see Note 5 Business Combinations and Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets in our notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through license fees, maintenance fees, SaaS subscription fees, consulting and training fees, borrowings under our prior credit agreement and, to a lesser degree, the sale of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and capital expenditures. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in key initiatives to drive company growth. Credit Agreement On March 11, 2019, SailPoint Technologies, Inc., as borrower, and certain of our other wholly owned subsidiaries entered into a credit agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement). In September 2019, the Company amended the Credit Agreement in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes. Such amendment included a decrease in the commitments for revolving credit loans from an initial $150.0 million to $75.0 million, with a $15.0 million letter of credit sublimit, which amount can be increased or decreased under specified circumstances and is subject to certain financial covenants. Borrowings pursuant to the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including for acquisitions permitted under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is scheduled to mature in March 2024. We had no outstanding revolving credit loan balance as of December 31, 2019. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of December 31, 2019. See Note 8 Line of Credit and Long-Term Debt in our notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information regarding terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. Convertible Senior Notes In September 2019, we issued $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.125% convertible senior notes (the Notes) due 2024 in a private offering (the Offering) to qualified institutional buyers. The net proceeds from the Offering were approximately $391.2 million, after deducting discounts and commissions and other fees and expenses payable by the Company in connection with the Offering. In connection with the issuance of the Notes and exercise in full of the initial purchasers option, the Company used approximately $37.1 million of the net proceeds to pay the cost of the privately negotiated capped call transactions (the Capped Call Transactions). See Note 9 Convertible Senior Notes and Capped Call Transactions in our notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information regarding terms and conditions of the Notes and Capped Call Transactions. 54 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (1) (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 50,091 $ 37,540 $ 21,856 Net cash used in investing activities (38,906 ) (10,856 ) (2,521 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 361,699 (65,575 ) 78,520 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 372,884 $ (38,891 ) $ 97,855 (1) The comparative information for 2017 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard and is reported in accordance with ASC 605. See Note 3 Revenue Recognition of our 2018 Annual Report for additional information related to our adoption of the revised revenue recognition standard (ASC 606). Cash Flows from Operating Activities During 2019, cash provided by operating activities was $50.1 million, which consisted of a net loss of $8.5 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $41.9 million and a net increase of $16.7 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization expense of $15.0 million, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $4.7 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $10.1 million, bad debt expense of $0.2 million, stock-based compensation of $18.7 million, and a net change in operating leases of $0.5 million, partially offset by a reduction in deferred tax liabilities of $7.3 million. The increase in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $37.3 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services and an increase in accrued expenses of $11.8 million due primarily to accrual of additional commissions and bonuses, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $1.6 million due to timing of cash disbursements, a decrease in income taxes payable of $0.1 million, an increase in prepayments and other assets of $25.5 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $5.1 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers. During 2018, cash provided by operating activities was $37.5 million, which consisted of net income of $3.7 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $40.5 million and a net decrease of $6.7 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization expense of $10.7 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.2 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $7.8 million, losses on modification and subsequent extinguishment of debt of $1.8 million, bad debt expense of $2.3 million, stock-based compensation of $19.0 million and partially offset by a reduction in deferred tax liabilities of $1.3 million. The decrease in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in accounts receivable of $31.3 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, an increase in prepayments and other assets of $17.4 million due to deferral of contract acquisition costs, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $0.9 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue of $39.9 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services, an increase in accounts payable of $2.4 million due to timing of cash disbursements and an increase in income taxes payable of $0.5 million. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities During 2019, cash used in investing activities was $38.9 million, consisting of $6.2 million in purchases of property and equipment, $0.4 million in acquisitions of intangibles and $32.4 million in cash paid for business acquisitions, net, partially offset by proceeds from sales of property and equipment. During 2018, cash used in investing activities was $10.9 million, consisting of $8.4 million in purchases of property and equipment and $2.5 million in acquisitions of intangibles, partially offset by proceeds from sales of property and equipment. 55 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities During 2019, cash provided by financing activities was $361.7 million, consisting of $400.0 million of proceeds from issuance of the Notes, $5.6 million of proceeds from issuance of equity, primarily related to shares issues pursuant to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and $3.1 million of the proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by payments of debt issuance costs of $9.6 million associated with the Credit Agreement and issuance of the Notes, $37.1 million of purchases of capped calls associated with the issuance of the Notes and $0.4 million in vesting of restricted stock units, primarily related to tax payments funded in the form of net issuances for certain executive officers. During 2018, cash used in financing activities was $65.6 million, consisting of $70.0 million in repayments of debt, $0.4 million in debt prepayment penalties, $0.3 million in vesting of restricted stock units, primarily related to tax payments funded in the form of net issuances for certain executive officers, partially offset by $3.3 million of proceeds from issuance of equity, primarily related to shares issues pursuant to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and $1.8 million of the proceeds from exercise of stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities, which includes special purposes entities and other structured finance entities. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our non-cancellable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019: Payments Due by Period Less Than More than Total 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Convertible Senior Notes (1) $ 400,000 $ $ $ 400,000 $ Interest obligations for Convertible Senior Notes (1) 2,354 500 1,000 854 Operating lease obligations (2) 49,442 5,324 11,544 10,291 22,283 Contractual commitments, including hosting service agreements (3) 10,389 8,550 1,839 Total $ 462,185 $ 14,374 $ 14,383 $ 411,145 $ 22,283 (1) The principal balance of the Notes is reflected in the payment period in the table above based on the contractual maturity assuming no conversion. As of December 31, 2019, the Notes were not yet in the conversion period. For more information on the Notes, refer to Note 9 Convertible Senior Notes and Capped Call Transactions of our accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (2) Consists of future non-cancelable minimum rental payments under operating leases for our offices, primarily our corporate headquarters in Austin, Texas. For more information on our operating leases, refer to Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies of our accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (3) Our purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements and therefore not included in the table above. The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without significant penalty are not included in the table above. As of December 31, 2019, we had $2.3 million of tax liabilities related to its uncertain tax positions. The timing of these uncertain tax liabilities has not included this amount in the table above as we cannot reasonably estimate the period which this obligation may be incurred, if at all. As of December 31, 2019, we had an outstanding letter of credit in the amount of $6.0 million, which is classified as restricted cash, primarily related to our corporate headquarters. 56 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies associated with revenue recognition, the collectability of accounts receivable, stock-based compensation expense, fair value of the liability and equity components of the Notes, income taxes and valuation of long-lived assets and goodwill are the most significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Therefore, these are considered to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition Revenue consists of fees for perpetual and term licenses for our software products, post-contract customer support (referred to as maintenance), SaaS, professional services which includes training and other revenue. We derive license revenue through the sale of our on-premises software license agreements. We typically recognize license revenue upon delivering the applicable license. We derive subscription revenue through the sale of our maintenance and SaaS subscription offerings. We typically recognize subscription revenue ratably over the contract term. We derive services and other revenue primarily through the sales of professional services. We typically recognize services and other revenue over time as the services are performed. We apply judgment regarding contracts with multiple product and service obligations to determine whether each product or service is capable of being a distinct performance obligation in the contract. If products and services are not distinct, they are combined until a single distinct obligation is created. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. We have contracts with customers that may have multiple performance obligations, including some or all of the following, software licenses, maintenance, subscriptions, professional services. Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price (SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately. We use a range to determine SSP based on the selling price of the products and services when sold separately. The SSP range is used to allocate each performance obligation in a contract to the transaction price and to apply a discount that will be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. When we do not have a directly observable SSP for a particular good or service, we estimate SSP by our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration market factors, pricing practices including historical discounting, historical standalone sales of similar products, customer demographics, geographic locations, and the number and types of users within our contracts. The determination of standalone selling price is made by the Companys management. The Company generally has standalone value for our professional services and recognize revenue as services are performed based on an estimated fair value as a separate performance obligation. We allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract on a relative SSP and recognizes revenue when or as it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a product or service to a customer. We do not incur shipping and handling for our products as they are generally delivered to a customer electronically. We do not believe that the customer currently has any rights to return that would result in a material impact to revenues. 57 Table of Contents The revised standard related to revenue recognition , Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification or ASC 606 ) , had a material impact on our consolidated finan cial statements. See Note 3 Revenue Recognition of our 2018 Annual Report for additional information related to our adoption of ASC 606. Stock-Based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards, including stock options, restricted stock units, employee stock purchase plans and incentive units, granted based on the estimated fair value of the awards on the date of grant, net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate the grant date fair value, and the resulting stock-based compensation expense, using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The grant date fair value of stock-based awards is expensed on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (generally the vesting period). The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of four key assumptions. Our assumptions are as follows: Expected volatility . As we have been a public company for a limited amount of time and have limited history for our common stock, the expected stock price volatility for our common stock is estimated by taking a blend comprised of the Companys historical stock volatility and the average historical price volatility for industry peers over a period equivalent to the expected term of the stock option grants. We intend to continue to weigh the Companys historical stock volatility more heavily as additional historical data becomes available and the weighting becomes 100% of our own common stock price volatility. Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the yields of U.S. Treasury securities with maturities similar to the expected term of the options for each option group. Expected dividend yield . We have never declared or paid any cash dividends to common stockholders and do not presently plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we use an expected dividend yield of zero. Expected term . The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. As we do not have sufficient historical experience for determining the expected term of the stock option awards granted, we base our expected term for awards issued to employees or members of our board of directors on the simplified method, which represents the average period from vesting to the expiration of the stock option. In addition to the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, we also estimate a forfeiture rate to calculate the stock-based compensation for our equity awards. We will continue to refine our estimates in evaluating the expected volatility, expected terms and forfeiture rates used for our stock-based compensation calculations on a prospective basis, as additional historical data becomes available. We analyze the facts and circumstances of each equity instrument to determine if modification accounting is required, for each period presented. This analysis includes a review of factors that influence the acceleration of vesting or stock price. If circumstances arise that have triggered a modification, the revised fair value is calculated, and additional stock-based compensation is recognized over the remaining service period of the modified option. For stock awards, our board of directors determines the fair value of each share of underlying common stock based on the closing price of our common stock as reported on the date of grant. The Company also offers an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) that allows permitted employees to purchase shares by authorizing payroll deductions from 1% to 15% of employees eligible compensation during the semi-annual offering period, with an annual cap of $25,000. Unless an employee has previously withdrawn from the offering, the payroll deductions will be used to purchase shares of common stock after the closing of the offering period at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the closing price of the shares at the opening or closing of the semi-annual offering period, whichever is lower. ESPP purchase rights have an expected volatility that is consistent with our volatility estimates that are used to value our stock options. The expected term represents the period of time the ESPP purchase rights are expected to be outstanding and approximates the offering period. 58 Table of Contents Convertible Senior Notes and Capped Call Transactions The Notes are accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic 47020, Debt with Conversion and Other Options. Pursuant to ASC Subtopic 47020, issuers of certain convertible debt instruments, such as the Notes, that have a net settlement feature and may be settled wholly or partially in cash upon conversion are required to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument. The carrying amount of the liability component of the instrument is computed by estimating the fair value of a similar liability without the conversion option. The amount of the equity component is then calculated by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the principal amount of the instrument. The difference between the principal amount and the liability component represents a debt discount that is amortized to interest expense over the respective term of the Notes using the effective interest rate method. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification. In accounting for the issuance costs related to the Notes, the allocation of issuance costs incurred between the liability and equity components was based on their relative values. The Company may enter into additional capped call transactions, which are generally expected to reduce potential dilution to common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any potential cash payments the Company is required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. These capped call transactions are recorded as separate transactions and not part of the terms of the convertible senior notes. As the capped call transactions are considered indexed to our own stock and are considered equity classified, they are recorded in stockholders equity and are not accounted for as derivatives and are recorded as a reduction to additional paid in capital. Income Taxes We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the United States as well as in other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to current federal and state income tax in the United States. We account for uncertain tax positions based on those positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We determine if the amount of available support indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. We then measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact our tax provision in our consolidated statements of operations in the period in which such determination is made. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of net tangible and identified net assets acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not to be amortized, but rather tested for impairment annually, or more often if and when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. For purposes of assessing potential impairment, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit, based on our market capitalization, and compare this amount to the carrying value of the reporting unit. If we determine that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be required. We have determined that we operate as one reporting unit and may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances indicate that an impairment test on goodwill is required. Goodwill is tested on an annual basis as of October 31 st , or sooner if an indicator of impairment occurs. The company internally monitors business and market conditions for evidence of triggering events. There were no triggering events for any of the asset types in 2019 or any material change in business trends indicating the need for impairment loss. As of October 31, 2019, the Company performed a qualitative analysis and concluded impairment for goodwill, including intangibles, was not required. There were no impairments of goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. 59 Table of Contents Business Combinations We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets may include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired users, acquired technology, and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which is one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of our recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting standards not yet adopted, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.