Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report) and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on February 24, 2020 (the Annual Report), including the consolidated financial statements and related notes included therein. SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. All Statements included in this Quarterly Report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. This includes statements regarding our strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues and losses, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events or place undue reliance thereon. We have based the forward-looking statements contained this Quarterly Report primarily on our current expectations and projections, in light of currently available information, about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results or those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include the following: the effect of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) global pandemic and its aftermath, as well as governmental, business and other actions in response, on the global economy and on our business; our ability to achieve and sustain profitability; our ability to sustain historical growth rates; our ability to attract and retain customers and to deepen our relationships with existing customers; an increased focus in our business from selling licenses to selling subscriptions; breaches in our security, cyber-attacks or other cyber-risks; interruptions with the delivery of our SaaS solutions or third-party cloud-based systems that we use in our operations; our ability to compete successfully against current and future competitors; the length and unpredictable nature of our sales cycle; delayed effects on our operating results from ratably recognizing some of our revenue; fluctuations in our quarterly results; our ability to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners; the increasing complexity of our operations; real or perceived errors, failures or disruptions in our platform or solutions; our ability to adapt and respond to rapidly changing technology, industry standards, regulations or customer needs, requirements or preferences; our ability to achieve and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting; our ability to comply with our privacy policy or related legal or regulatory requirements; our ability to accurately forecast our estimated annual effective tax rate for financial accounting purposes; our ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate companies and assets; our ability to maintain high-quality customer satisfaction; and our ability to maintain and enhance our brand or reputation as an industry leader. More information on these risks and other potential factors that could affect our financial results is included in our other filings with the SEC, including in the Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections of the Annual Report and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report relate only to events as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Quarterly Report or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Business Overview SailPoint Technologies Holdings, Inc. (SailPoint, the Company or we) is the leading provider of enterprise identity governance solutions. Our team of visionary industry veterans launched SailPoint to empower our customers to efficiently and securely govern the digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners, software bots and other human and non-human users, and manage their constantly changing access rights to enterprise applications and data. Our SailPoint Predictive Identity platform provides organizations with critical visibility into who currently has access to which resources, who should have access to those resources, and how that access is being used. 21 Table of Contents We offer both software and software as a service (SaaS) solutions, which provide organizations with the intelligence required to empower users and govern their access to systems, applications and data across hybrid IT environments, spanning on-premises, cloud and mobile applications and file storage platforms. We help customers enable their businesses with more agile and innovative IT, streamline delivery of access to their businesses, enhance their security posture and better meet compliance and regulatory requirements. Our customers include many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations, including commercial enterprises, financial institutions and governments. Organizations globally are investing in technologies such as cloud computing and mobility to improve employee productivity, business agility and competitiveness. Today, enterprise environments are more open and interconnected with their business partners, contractors, vendors and customers. Business users have driven a dramatic increase in the number of applications and amount of data that organizations need to manage, much of which sits beyond the traditional network perimeter. Because of these trends, the attack surface is expanding while well-funded cyber attackers have significantly increased the frequency and sophistication of their attacks. As a result, IT professionals need to manage and secure increasingly complex hybrid IT environments within these extended enterprises. Attackers frequently target the identity vector as it allows them to leverage user identities to gain access to high-value systems and data while concealing their activity and movements within an organizations IT infrastructure. The consequences of a data breach can be extremely damaging, with organizations facing significant costs to remediate the breach and repair brand and reputational damage. In addition, governments and regulatory bodies have increased efforts to protect users and their data with a new wave of regulatory and compliance measures that are further burdening organizations and levying severe penalties for non-compliance. As a result of these trends, enterprises are struggling to efficiently manage and secure their digital identities. We believe that our SailPoint Predictive Identity platform is a critical, foundational layer of a modern cyber security strategy. Its open architecture allows it to complement and build upon traditional perimeter- and endpoint-centric security solutions, which on their own are increasingly insufficient to secure organizations, and their applications and data. We deliver a user-centric security platform that combines identity and data governance solutions to form a holistic view of the enterprise. In combination with our technology partners, we create identity awareness throughout our customers environments by providing valuable insights into, and incorporating information from, a broad range of enterprise software and security solutions. Our governance platform provides a system of record for digital identities across our customers IT environments while allowing them to remain agile and competitive. Our adaptable solutions integrate seamlessly into existing technology stacks, allowing organizations to maximize the value of their technology investments. Our professionals work closely with customers throughout the implementation lifecycle, from documentation to development to integration. The SailPoint Predictive Identity platform currently consists of: SailPoint Identity Services : delivered as multi-tenant SaaS subscription services and currently consisting of: o IdentityNow : provides customers with a set of fully integrated services for compliance, provisioning and password management for applications and data hosted on-premises or in the cloud; o Access Insights : turns identity data collected into actionable insights; o Recommendation Engine : uses artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), peer group analysis, identity attributes and access activity to help you decide whether access should be granted or removed; o Access Modeling : uses AI and ML to suggest roles based on similar access between users and gives you insights to confirm the correct access for each role; o Cloud Access Management : uses AI and ML to automatically learn, monitor and secure access to cloud infrastructure; and o Workload Privilege Management : automates the creation and rotation of credentials, keys and passwords and records and logs activity whenever privileged tasks are performed for security and audit purposes, and IdentityIQ : our identity governance solution that can be delivered from the cloud or on-premises. IdentityIQ provides large, complex enterprise customers a unified and highly configurable identity governance solution that consistently applies business and security policies as well as role and risk models across applications and data. It can be used in conjunction with our SailPoint Identity Services, including Access Insights, Recommendation Engine, Access Modeling, Cloud Access Management and Workload Privilege Management. 22 Table of Contents Our solutions address the complex needs of global enterprises and mid-market organizations. As of March 31, 2020 , 1,516 customers across a wide variety of industries were using our products to enable and secure digital identities across the globe. Our success is principally dependent on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Delivering these solutions is challenging because our customers have large, complex IT environments, often rely on both legacy and innovative technologies, and deploy different business models, including on-premises and cloud models. Rising security threats and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy and internal IT controls create new opportunities for our industry and require us to adapt our solutions to be successful. Maintaining our historical growth rates is also challenging because our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our global presence, increase the number of companies we can address with our current solutions, and invest in new vertical markets, while competing against much larger companies with more recognizable brands and financial resources. Although we seek to grow rapidly, we also focus on managing our net cash from operations while continuing to invest in our platform and to deliver innovative solutions to our customers. We believe enterprises are increasingly embracing the cloud to house their critical security infrastructure. As a result, a growing number of enterprises are changing their approach to identity governance and now prefer to use a SaaS solution rather than purchase software outright and install it in their own infrastructure. This industry shift aligns well with our current product strategy. Our product strategy is to (1) accelerate innovation within our core identity governance SaaS offerings, (2) deliver continued innovation as we execute against our vision for SailPoint Predictive Identity, and (3) ensure that as we deliver these new innovations, they work in concert with our on-premises offerings in addition to our SaaS offerings. We believe that continued growth of subscription revenue, which includes revenue from our SaaS offerings, as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Nevertheless, our revenue and our gross margins vary depending on the type of solution we sell. As a result, a shift in the sales mix of our solutions could affect our performance relative to historical results. See Key Factors Affecting Our Performance within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report for information regarding the key factors affecting our performance . Recent Developments In December 2019, COVID-19 was identified in Wuhan, China. In March 2020, as the disease began to spread around the world, the World Health Organization subsequently declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic. In light of the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the United States and abroad, government and public health authorities have recommended social distancing and imposed various quarantine and isolation measures on large portions of the population, including mandatory business closures. Although some of the restrictions have begun to be lifted, these and other measures, while intended to protect human life, have had and are expected to continue to have serious adverse impacts on domestic and foreign economies of uncertain severity and duration. In response to these measures, we have made certain adjustments to our operations, but we are not yet certain how these changes or the broader effects of COVID-19 on global economies will affect our financial performance going forward. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have shifted certain customer events to virtual-only experiences and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional customer, employee or industry events or otherwise alter our marketing efforts in the future. It is unclear what effect this trend may have on our sales cycle, conversion rate or the quantity and quality of our customer pipeline. The conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect the rate of IT spending by our current and prospective customers and could adversely affect their ability or willingness to attend our events or to purchase our offerings, delay prospective customers purchasing decisions, adversely impact our ability to provide on-site consulting services to our customers, delay the provisioning of our offerings, result in customer requests to lengthen payment terms or reduce the value or duration of subscription contracts, cause customers to fail to make timely payments or affect attrition rates. It is unclear what effect these circumstances may have on our future bookings, revenue mix, operating results and overall financial performance, but our performance during the first quarter of 2020 was somewhat dampened by the impact of COVID-19 in March. The impacts of COVID-19 have also made it difficult to accurately forecast our future financial performance, and our first quarter performance is not likely to be indicative of expected performance in future periods. We believe that our financial resources will allow us to manage the anticipated impact of COVID-19 on our business operations for the foreseeable future, but the challenges posed by COVID-19 on our business and our customers businesses may evolve rapidly. Consequently, we will continue to evaluate our financial position in light of future developments, particularly those relating to COVID-19. See Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report for information regarding the possible effects on our business of COVID-19. 23 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics In addition to our GAAP financial information, we monitor the following key metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: As of March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Number of customers 1,516 1,219 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 58 % 53 % Number of Customers . We believe that the size of our customer base is an indicator of our market penetration and that our net customer additions are an indicator of the growth of our business and our future revenue opportunity. We define a customer as a distinct entity, division or business unit of an organization that receives support or has the right to use our cloud-based solutions as of the specified measurement date. Revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased. Our customer base increased by 297, or 24%, from 1,219 customers at March 31, 2019 to 1,516 customers at March 31, 2020. This increase includes 12 customers added in the first quarter of 2020 as a result of the integration of our two acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2019. Subscription Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue . Subscription revenue is a portion of our total revenue and is derived from (i) IdentityIQ maintenance and support agreements and (ii) the SailPoint Identity Services where customers enter into subscription agreements with us. As we generally sell our solutions on a per-identity basis, our SaaS subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern, the number of applications that the customer has licensed from us, and the ongoing price paid per-identity under a maintenance and support agreement. Thus, we consider our subscription revenue to be the recurring portion of our revenue base and believe that its continued growth as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Because we recognize our subscription revenue ratably over the duration of those agreements, a portion of the revenue we recognize each period is derived from agreements we entered into in prior periods. In contrast, we typically recognize license revenue upon entering into the applicable license, the timing of which is less predictable and may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Components of Results of Operations See Components of Results of Operations within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report for information regarding the components of our results of operations. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products and services. Our quarterly sales are impacted by industry buying patterns. As a result, our sales have generally been highest in the fourth quarter of a calendar year and lowest in the first quarter. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 (In thousands) Revenue Licenses $ 21,004 $ 18,669 Subscription 43,881 31,835 Services and other 10,557 10,079 Total revenue 75,442 60,583 Cost of revenue Licenses 1,080 1,059 Subscription (1) 8,476 5,813 Services and other (1) 9,006 7,997 Total cost of revenue 18,562 14,869 Gross profit 56,880 45,714 Operating expenses Research and development (1) 15,808 12,772 General and administrative (1) 9,514 9,137 Sales and marketing (1) 36,860 30,488 Total operating expenses 62,182 52,397 Loss from operations (5,302 ) (6,683 ) Other expense, net: Interest income 1,272 46 Interest expense (4,532 ) (35 ) Other, net (324 ) (417 ) Total other expense, net (3,584 ) (406 ) Loss before income taxes (8,886 ) (7,089 ) Income tax (expense) benefit 469 (1,301 ) Net loss $ (8,417 ) $ (8,390 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 389 $ 260 Cost of revenue - services and other 427 349 Research and development 1,501 917 General and administrative 1,002 1,371 Sales and marketing 2,872 1,742 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 6,191 $ 4,639 25 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Revenue Licenses 28 % 31 % Subscription 58 53 Services and other 14 16 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue Licenses 2 2 Subscription 11 10 Services and other 12 13 Total cost of revenue 25 25 Gross profit 75 75 Operating expenses Research and development 21 21 General and administrative 13 15 Sales and marketing 49 50 Total operating expenses 83 86 Loss from operations (8 ) (11 ) Other expense, net: Interest income 2 0 Interest expense (6 ) 0 Other, net 0 (1 ) Total other expense, net (4 ) (1 ) Loss before income taxes (12 ) (12 ) Income tax (expense) benefit 1 (2 ) Net loss (11 )% (14 )% Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue Licenses $ 21,004 $ 18,669 $ 2,335 13 % Subscription 43,881 31,835 12,046 38 % Services and other 10,557 10,079 478 5 % Total revenue $ 75,442 $ 60,583 $ 14,859 25 % License Revenue. License revenue increased by $2.3 million, or 13%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, license revenue from new customers was $11.4 million and $14.5 million, respectively, and license revenue from existing customers was $9.6 million and $4.2 million, respectively. Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue increased by $12.0 million, or 38%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily due to an increase in ongoing maintenance revenue from our increased installed base and new sales of our SaaS offerings. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, subscription revenue from new customers was $1.4 million for both periods and subscription revenue from existing customers was $42.5 million and $30.4 million, respectively. Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $0.5 million, or 5% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Geographic Regions . Our customers in the United States contributed the largest portion of our revenue in each reporting period ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 because we have more market momentum related to our larger and more established sales force, sales 26 Table of Contents pipeline and brand recognition and awareness in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue is classified by the following major geographic areas: (i) Americas, (ii) Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) and (iii) rest of the world . We continue to invest in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. F or the three months ended March 31, 2020 , revenue in the United States and the rest of the world increased year-over-year, while EMEA remained consistent year-over-year . The following table sets forth, for each of the periods presented, our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentages of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 54,499 72 % $ 41,560 69 % EMEA (1) 13,728 18 % 13,937 23 % Rest of the World (1) 7,215 10 % 5,086 8 % Total revenue $ 75,442 100 % $ 60,583 100 % (1) No single country in either of these regions represented more than 10% of our revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit Licenses $ 19,924 $ 17,610 $ 2,314 13 % Subscription 35,405 26,022 9,383 36 % Services and other 1,551 2,082 (531 ) (26 )% Total gross profit $ 56,880 $ 45,714 $ 11,166 24 % Gross margin Licenses 95 % 94 % Subscription 81 % 82 % Services and other 15 % 21 % Total gross margin 75 % 75 % Licenses. License gross profit increased by $2.3 million, or 13%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in gross profit was the result of increased license revenues with only minor increases in third party royalties. Subscription. Subscription gross profit increased by $9.4 million, or 36%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in gross profit was the result of growth in subscription revenue, as described above. Gross margin went down slightly due to a shift in sales mix as our SaaS revenue has a lower margin than our maintenance revenue. Services and Other . Services and other gross profit decreased by $0.5 million, or 26%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. This decrease in gross profit was primarily attributable to higher costs associated with expanding our infrastructure for our professional services and training organization to support an increasing number of customers, partially offset by increased revenues. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Operating expenses Research and development $ 15,808 $ 12,772 $ 3,036 24 % General and administrative 9,514 9,137 377 4 % Sales and marketing 36,860 30,488 6,372 21 % Total operating expenses $ 62,182 $ 52,397 $ 9,785 19 % Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $3.0 million, or 24%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. This increase was primarily driven by a $1.8 million increase in employee-based costs primarily consisting of deferred stock compensation and severance payments, and $0.9 million increase in allocated overhead expenses primarily related to facilities cost and depreciation. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.4 million, or 4%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. This increase was primarily driven by a $1.0 million increase in software maintenance and subscription expenses and $0.5 million increase in general and administrative headcount and related allocated overhead expenses, and, partially offset by a decrease of $1.1 million in professional services expense related to legal, accounting and consulting fees incurred in the prior year associated with the implementation of ASC 606 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $6.4 million, or 21%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Substantially all of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount, stock-based compensation expense and related allocated overhead, to support increased penetration into our existing markets and customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest Income Interest income increased by $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to March 31, 2019. This increase was primarily due to interest income earned on our money market accounts in which we have invested a significant portion of the net proceeds from the Notes issuance in the third quarter of 2019. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to March 31, 2019. This increase was primarily due to $4.0 million of amortization of debt discount and $0.3 million of debt issuance costs related to the Notes for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to an income tax expense of $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, leading to a net benefit of $1.8 million year-over-year. The Company maintains a full valuation allowance for our Israel tax position due the lack of taxable earnings for the foreseeable future. Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to the valuation allowances on certain foreign deferred tax assets, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; unanticipated changes in tax rates; and differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation, foreign withholding taxes and research and development credits. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax if such earnings are distributed to the U.S. With the exception of 2018 and 2019, we have incurred net operating losses for federal income tax purposes each year since our inception. We have since begun to utilize some of our net operating losses for federal income tax purposes. Thus, our tax expense to date relates primarily to state as well as foreign income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2020 is 5.3% compared to (18.4)% for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The main drivers for the differences in the rates from the prior period to the current period are related to a decrease in forecasted pre-tax book income, the impact of stock compensation and increase in foreign tax liabilities and impact of the valuation allowance build. 28 Table of Contents We do not consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of India, to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. The global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions require the Company to include in its U.S. income tax return foreign subsidiary earnings in excess of an allowable return on the foreign subsidiarys tangible assets. The Company is currently in a tested loss and does not incur a GILTI tax. In India, we continue to invest and grow our research and development activities and have no plans to repatriate undistributed earning held in India back to the U.S. parent company, and therefore consider earnings in India to be permanently reinvested. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2020, we had $461.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, $4.4 million of cash and cash equivalents held in our foreign subsidiaries, $75.0 million of availability under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) and $6.0 million in our irrevocable, cash collateralized, unconditional standby letter of credit, issued primarily in connection with our corporate headquarters lease. As of March 31, 2020, we had $539.2 million in working capital, which we define as current assets less current liabilities, excluding deferred revenue. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our Credit Agreement will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new solutions and product enhancements. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may borrow under our Credit Agreement or seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may enter into agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness or use cash resources. As of March 31, 2020, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through license fees, maintenance fees, SaaS subscription fees, consulting and training fees, borrowings under our prior credit agreement and, to a lesser degree, the sale of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and capital expenditures. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in key initiatives to drive the Company long-term growth. Credit Agreement In March 2019, SailPoint Technologies, Inc., as borrower, and certain of our other wholly owned subsidiaries entered into a credit agreement (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time through the date hereof, the Credit Agreement). In September 2019, the Company amended the Credit Agreement in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes. Such amendment included a decrease in the commitments for revolving credit loans from an initial $150.0 million to $75.0 million, with a $15.0 million letter of credit sublimit, which amount can be increased or decreased under specified circumstances and is subject to certain financial covenants. Borrowings pursuant to the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including for acquisitions permitted under the Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are scheduled to mature in March 2024. We had no outstanding revolving credit loan balance as of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of March 31, 2020. See Note 8 Credit Agreement in our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information regarding terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. Convertible Senior Notes In September 2019, we issued $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.125% convertible senior notes due 2024 (the Notes), in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers. In connection with the issuance of the Notes and exercise in full of the initial purchasers option, the Company used $37.1 million of the net proceeds to pay the cost of the privately negotiated capped call transactions (the Capped Call Transactions). See Note 9 Convertible Senior Notes and Capped Call Transactions in our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information regarding terms and conditions of the Notes and Capped Call Transactions. 29 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 16,459 $ 17,228 Net cash used in investing activities (229 ) (2,295 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,162 343 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 17,392 $ 15,276 Cash Flows from Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , cash provided by operating activities was $16.5 million, which consisted of net loss of $8.4 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $18.2 million and a net change of $6.7 million in our operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $4.6 million, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $4.4 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $3.0 million, loss on disposal of fixed assets of $0.1 million, credit loss expense of $0.1 million, stock-based compensation of $6.2 million, a net decrease in operating leases of $0.1 million and a net decrease in deferred taxes of $0.1 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was $6.7 million as a result of a decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, partially offset by an increase in prepayments and other assets primarily due to increase in deferred contract acquisition costs, a decrease in accounts payable due to timing of cash disbursements, a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities due primarily to payment of commissions and bonuses, a decrease in income taxes payable, and a decrease in deferred revenue due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash provided by operating activities was $17.2 million, which consisted of a net loss of $8.4 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $10.4 million and a net change of $15.2 million in our operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $3.3 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $2.2 million, stock-based compensation of $4.6 million and a net change in operating leases of $0.3 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was $15.2 million as a result of an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities due primarily to accrual of deferred rent and lease liabilities due to adoption of ASC 842 and a decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, partially offset by an increase in prepayments and other assets, a decrease in accounts payable due to timing of cash disbursements and a decrease in deferred revenue due to the timing of billings of revenue recognition and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , cash used in investing activities was $0.2 million, consisting primarily of purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash used in investing activities was $2.3 million, consisting primarily of purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , cash provided by financing activities was $1.2 million, consisting of $1.3 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.2 million in vesting of restricted stock units, primarily related to tax payments funded in the form of net issuances for certain executive officers. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash provided by financing activities was $0.3 million, consisting of $1.2 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options partially offset by debt issuance costs of $0.8 million associated with the new credit agreement. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities, which includes special purposes entities and other structured finance entities. 30 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations and commitments, as disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies associated with revenue recognition, the valuation allowance based on expected credit losses and the collectability of accounts receivable, stock-based compensation expense, fair value of the liability and equity components of the Notes, income taxes and valuation of long-lived assets and goodwill are the most significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Therefore, these are considered to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Except for the adoption of ASU 2016-13, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report for a full discussion of these estimates and policies. See Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3 Allowance for Expected Credit Losses in our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents