Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to the fair value allocation of multiple performance obligations in revenue recognition, the expected period of benefit of contract acquisition costs, the assumptions underlying the fair value used for equity-based compensation expense and estimated useful lives, and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill arising from business combinations. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices, may harm our operating results. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could harm our operating results or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Adoption of such new standards and any difficulties in implementation of changes in accounting principles, including the ability to modify our accounting systems, could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors confidence in us. We track certain business and operational metrics, which are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our stock price, business, results of operations, and financial condition. We track certain business and operational metrics, including metrics such as ARR, SaaS ARR, and dollar-based net retention rate, which may differ from estimates or similar metrics published by third parties due to differences in sources, methodologies, or the assumptions on which we rely. Our internal systems and tools are subject to a number of limitations, and our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we publicly disclose. If the internal systems and tools we use to track these metrics undercount or overcount performance or contain algorithmic or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. If our solutions fail to help our customers achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We believe we generate a portion of our revenues from our solutions because our customers use our solutions as part of their efforts to achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, and we expect that will continue for the foreseeable future. Examples of industry standards and government regulations include the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and associated National Institute for Standards and Testing ("NIST") Network Security Standards; the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS); Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, which governs food and drug industries; the North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection Plan (NERC-CIP); the GDPR; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) Minimum Requirements for Risk Management; and the Monetary Authority of Singapores Technology Risk Management 27 Table of Contents Notices. These industry standards may change with little or no notice, including changes that could make them more or less onerous for businesses. In addition, governments may also adopt new laws or regulations, or make changes to existing laws or regulations, that could affect whether our customers believe our solution assists them in maintaining compliance with such laws or regulations. If our solutions fail to expedite our customers compliance initiatives, our customers may lose confidence in our solutions and could switch to those offered by our competitors. In addition, if government regulations and industry standards related to IT security are changed in a manner that makes them less onerous, our customers may view compliance as less critical to their businesses, and our customers may be less willing to purchase our solutions. In either case, our sales and financial results would suffer. Our success depends on the experience and expertise of our senior management team and key employees. If we are unable to hire, retain, train, and motivate our personnel, or to maintain our corporate culture, our business, operating results, and prospects may be harmed. Our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our senior management team and key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, leadership team, engineers, product managers, sales and marketing personnel, and professional services personnel. Our future success will also depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, and retain additional skilled and highly qualified personnel, which will require significant time, expense, and attention. The majority of our employees, including all of our officers and key employees, are employed on an at-will basis, which means that they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more members of our senior management team, particularly if closely grouped, could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and thus, our business, operating results, and prospects. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our officers or key employees, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. Competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including sales, professional services, and software engineering, is intense. We have from time to time experienced, and may in the future have, difficulty hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, and many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. Additionally, many of our employees may be able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our common stock in the public markets following the expiration of applicable lock-up periods, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. We believe that our corporate culture has been and will continue to be a key contributor to our success. The size of our workforce has grown significantly in recent years, and we expect headcount growth to continue for the foreseeable future. If we are not able to maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we may be unable to continue to foster the innovation, integrity, and collaboration we believe we need to support our growth, which could adversely affect our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our platform and solutions are billed in multiple currencies, and therefore, a portion of our revenue is subject to foreign currency risk. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our platform and solutions to our customers outside of the United States, which could also adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, an increasing portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the United States. These operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. While we do not currently hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, if our foreign currency risk increases in the future and we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business could be disrupted by catastrophic events. Occurrence of any catastrophic event, including earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, or other weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or commodity appliance malfunction, cyber attack, war, terrorist attack, explosion, or pandemic could impact our business. Our insurance coverage may not compensate us for losses that may occur in the event of a significant natural disaster. Additionally, we rely on third-party systems and enterprise applications, technology systems, and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services, and sales activities. In the event of a catastrophic event, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our identity security solutions, and breaches of data security, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to develop adequate plans to ensure that our 28 Table of Contents business functions continue to operate during and after a disaster and to execute successfully on those plans in the event of a disaster or emergency, our business would be harmed. Risks Related to Our Technology and Our Intellectual Property Rights Our introduction and use of AI, and the integration of AI with our solutions, may not be successful and may present business, compliance, and reputational challenges, which could lead to operational or reputational damage, competitive harm, legal and regulatory risk, and additional costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have incorporated, and expect to continue to incorporate, AI in our solutions, and this incorporation of AI in our business and operations may become more significant over time. The use of generative AI, a relatively new and emerging technology in the early stages of commercial use, exposes us to additional risks, such as potential damage to our reputation, competitive position, and business, legal and regulatory risks, and additional costs. For example, generative AI has been known to produce false or hallucinatory inferences or output, and certain generative AI uses ML and predictive analytics, which can create inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading content, unintended biases, and other discriminatory or unexpected results, errors, or inadequacies, any of which may not be easily detectable by us or any of our related service providers. Accordingly, while AI systems may help provide more tailored or personalized user experiences, if the content, analyses, or recommendations that AI systems assist in producing in our solutions are, or are perceived to be, deficient, inaccurate, biased, unethical, or otherwise flawed, our reputation, competitive position, and business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, new laws and regulations, or the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, in any of the jurisdictions we operate in may affect the use of our AI systems and our use of third-party AI tools and solutions and may expose us to government enforcement or civil suits. As the legal and regulatory framework encompassing AI matures, it may result in increases in our operational and development expenses that impact our ability to earn revenue from or utilize any AI systems. Any of the foregoing and any similar issues, whether actual or perceived, could negatively impact our users experience and diminish the perceived quality and value of our offerings. This in turn could damage our brand, reputation, competitive position, and business. Additionally, if any of our employees, contractors, consultants, vendors, or service providers use any third-party AI-powered tools or solutions in connection with our business or the services they provide to us, it may lead to the inadvertent disclosure or incorporation of our confidential information into publicly available training sets, which may impact our ability to realize the benefit of, or adequately maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property or confidential information, harming our competitive position and business. Our ability to mitigate risks associated with disclosure of our confidential information, including in connection with AI systems, will depend on our implementation, maintenance, monitoring, and enforcement of appropriate technical and administrative safeguards, policies, and procedures governing the use of AI in our business. Additionally, any output created by us using AI tools may not be subject to copyright protection, which may adversely affect our intellectual property rights in, or ability to commercialize or use, any such content. In the United States, a number of civil lawsuits have been initiated related to the foregoing and other concerns, any one of which may, among other things, require us to limit the ways in which our AI systems are trained and may affect our ability to develop our AI-powered solutions. For example, the output produced by AI tools may include information subject to certain privacy or right of publicity laws or constitute an unauthorized derivative work of the copyrighted material used in training the underlying AI model, any of which could also create a risk of liability for us, or adversely affect our business or operations. AI-related lawsuits to date have generally focused on AI service providers, which may increase our risks of liability. In addition, the use of AI has resulted in, and may in the future result in, cybersecurity breaches, incidents, or disruptions that implicate the personal information of clients of AI systems. To the extent that we do not have sufficient rights to use the data or other material or content used in or produced by the AI tools used in our business, or if we experience cybersecurity incidents in connection with our use of AI, it could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to legal liability or regulatory risk, including with respect to third-party intellectual property, privacy, data protection and cybersecurity, publicity, contractual, or other rights. Further, our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively. As the utilization of AI becomes more prevalent, we anticipate that it will continue to present new or unanticipated ethical, reputational, technical, operational, legal, competitive, and regulatory issues, among others. We expect that our incorporation of AI in our business will require additional resources, including the incurrence of additional costs, to develop and maintain our solutions and features to minimize potentially harmful or unintended consequences, to comply with applicable and emerging laws and regulations, to maintain or extend our competitive position and to address any ethical, reputational, technical, operational, legal, competitive, or regulatory issues which may arise as a result of any of the foregoing. As a result, the challenges presented with our use of AI could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our ability to introduce new identity security solutions and features is dependent on adequate research and development resources and our ability to successfully complete acquisitions. If we do not adequately fund our research and development efforts or complete acquisitions successfully, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our business and results of operations may be harmed. To remain competitive, we must continue to offer new data security solutions and enhancements to our platform and existing solutions. This is particularly true as we further expand and diversify our capabilities. Maintaining adequate research and development resources, such as the appropriate personnel and development technology, to meet the demands of the market is essential. If we elect not to or are unable to develop solutions internally due to certain constraints, such as high employee turnover, lack of management ability, or a lack of other research and development resources, we may choose to expand into a certain market or strategy via an acquisition for which we could potentially pay too much or fail to successfully integrate into our operations. We may acquire or invest in companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. For additional information about the risks we face in connection with acquisitions, see Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe may acquire or invest in companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions, and acquisitions, particularly of development stage companies, may adversely affect our operating results and liquidity as well as our ability to meet expectations. Further, many of our competitors expend a considerably greater amount of funds on their respective research and development programs, and those that do not may be acquired by larger companies that would allocate greater resources to our competitors research and development programs. Our failure to maintain adequate research and development resources or to compete effectively with the research and development programs of our competitors would give an advantage to such competitors, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, there is no assurance that our research and development or acquisition efforts will successfully anticipate market needs and result in significant new marketable solutions or enhancements to our solutions, design improvements, cost savings, revenues, or other expected benefits. If we are unable to generate an adequate return on such investments, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Cyber attacks or other cybersecurity breaches, incidents, or disruptions with respect to our networks, systems, or applications, including unauthorized access to, or disclosure or other processing of, our proprietary, confidential, or sensitive information, including personal information, could disrupt our operations, compromise sensitive information related to our business or personal information processed by us or on our behalf, and expose us to liability, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and as we grow, we may become a more attractive target for cyber attacks. Our solutions analyze and otherwise process proprietary and confidential information, including personal information. Increasingly, companies in our industry are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks and systems. As a well-known provider of identity security solutions, we pose an attractive target for such attacks, and as our footprint grows larger, we may become an even more attractive target for cyber attacks. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, various attempts to access or disrupt our networks, systems, and applications. We face threats from a variety of sources, including sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors, cyber criminals, terrorists, and politically motivated groups or individuals that pose risks to our internal networks, our platform, our third-party service providers, and our customers systems and the proprietary, confidential, or sensitive information, including personal information processed by us or on our behalf. The nature of the attacks perpetrated against us may include theft of sensitive information, exploitation of our solutions as part of a supply chain attack against our customers, manipulation of data, ransomware, or others. Any of these attacks, if successful, can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of sensitive data and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. In the case of ransomware, extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. We do expend and may be required to expend significantly more capital and financial resources in the future to protect against any such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. Moreover, future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Furthermore, we may discover security issues that were not found during due diligence of such acquired or integrated entities, and it may be increasingly difficult to integrate companies into our IT environment and security program successfully, or at all. 30 Table of Contents Despite significant efforts to create security barriers to safeguard against such threats, it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate these risks. Despite our security measures, our and our third-party service providers IT and infrastructure may be vulnerable to security risks, including unauthorized access to, use, or disclosure of customer data, theft of proprietary information, employee error or misconduct, denial of service attacks, loss or corruption of customer data, and computer hacking attacks or other cyber attacks subsequently originated from our infrastructure. The security measures we have integrated into our internal networks and platform, which are designed to detect unauthorized activity, protect our proprietary, confidential, or sensitive information, including personal information, prevent data loss and prevent or minimize security breaches, incidents, or disruptions, may not function as expected or may not be sufficient to protect our internal networks and platform against certain attacks. In addition, techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to networks in which data is stored or through which data is transmitted change frequently, generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and may be difficult to discover for an extended period. Even if identified, we may be unable to adequately investigate or remediate incidents or breaches due to attackers increasingly using tools and techniques that are designed to circumvent controls, to avoid detection, and to remove or obfuscate forensic evidence. For example, threat actors may leverage emerging AI technologies to develop new hacking tools and attack vectors, exploit vulnerabilities, obscure their activities, and increase the difficulty of threat attribution and remediation. Such cyber attacks and other cybersecurity breaches, incidents, or disruptions may continue to evolve in frequency and sophistication, and as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or reasonably implement adequate preventative measures to prevent an electronic intrusion into our networks. If an actual or perceived breach of our or our third-party service providers security occurs, whether as result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, our brand and reputation could be impacted, we could lose potential sales and existing customers, our ability to operate our business could be impaired, we could be subject to litigation, government enforcement actions, additional reporting requirements, and restrictions on data processing, and we may incur significant liabilities. Some of our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that any such limitations of liability are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to any such breaches. Additionally, while our insurance policies include liability coverage for certain breaches, subject to retention amounts that could be substantial, we cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to any such breaches, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all or that such coverage will pay future claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or larger deductibles, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, failure to maintain effective internal accounting controls related to identity security breaches and cybersecurity in general could impact our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and/or government enforcement actions. Further, our solutions may be perceived as less desirable, which could negatively affect our business and damage our reputation. Our ability to retain existing customers, expand solutions, and use case penetration with existing customers and acquire new customers is dependent upon our reputation as a trusted intelligent security provider. The importance of our reputation in retaining existing business and acquiring new business is heightened by our focus on enterprise customers. In addition, we have a number of customers that operate in highly-regulated industries where our customers data is particularly sensitive, such as financial services and healthcare. A network or security breach could damage our relationships with customers, result in the loss of customers across one or more use case or solution, and make it more challenging to acquire new customers, and such damage would likely be heightened in the event a network or security breach occurred in the highly-regulated industries we serve. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage, systems change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we and our customers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Our operations involve analyzing and processing our customers and other third parties confidential and proprietary information, including, in some cases, personally identifiable information. We have legal and contractual obligations to protect the confidentiality and appropriate use of such information, including customer data. As a result, security incidents impacting our platform or the systems of our third-party service providers could result in a risk of loss or unauthorized access to or disclosure of the information we process on behalf of our customers. This, in turn, could require notification under applicable data privacy regulations and could lead to litigation, governmental audits and investigations, and possible liability, damage our relationships with our existing customers, trigger indemnification and other contractual obligations, cause us to incur investigation, mitigation, and remediation expenses, and have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain new customers. Furthermore, any such incident, including a breach of our customers systems, could compromise our networks or networks secured by our solutions, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and exploiting security vulnerabilities of our or our customers networks, and the information stored on our or our customers systems could be accessed or disclosed without authorization, altered, lost, or stolen, which could subject us to liability and cause us financial harm. An actual or perceived breach of our networks, our customers networks, those of our third-party service providers or other networks secured by our 31 Table of Contents solutions, whether or not due to a vulnerability in our platform, may also undermine confidence in our platform or our industry and result in expenditure of significant resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work around errors or defects, delayed or lost revenue, delay in the development or release of new solutions, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, damage to our brand and reputation, negative publicity, loss of channel partners, customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, increased insurance expense, and costly litigation. In addition, if a high-profile security incident occurs with respect to another identity security solution provider, our customers and potential customers may lose trust in the value of the identity security solution business model generally, including the security of our solutions, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones, potentially causing a negative impact on our business. Any of these negative outcomes could adversely impact market acceptance of our solutions and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Interruptions, outages, or other disruptions affecting the delivery of our SaaS solution, or any of the third-party cloud-based systems that we use in our operations, may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing customers and new customers to consistently access our platform and solutions at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. In addition, our ability to access certain third-party SaaS solutions, including those of our service providers, is important to our operations and the delivery of our customer support and professional services. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages, and other performance problems both in the delivery of our SaaS solution and in third-party SaaS solutions we use due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, malicious actors, human or software errors, or capacity constraints. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. If our SaaS solution or the third-party SaaS solutions we depend on are unavailable or if our customers are unable to access features of our SaaS solution within a reasonable amount of time or at all, our business would be negatively affected. We host our SaaS solution primarily using AWS data centers. Our related operations depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructure hosted in AWS by maintaining its configuration, architecture, features, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers and which third-party internet service providers transmit. Although we have disaster recovery plans that utilize multiple AWS locations, any incident affecting their infrastructure that may be caused by fire, flood, severe storm, earthquake, or other natural disasters, cyber attacks, terrorist, or other attacks, public health issues, or other similar events beyond our control could negatively affect our SaaS platform. A prolonged AWS service disruption affecting our SaaS platform for any of the foregoing or other reasons would negatively impact our ability to serve our customers and could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the AWS services we use, which would also likely require significant investments of time. In addition, AWS may terminate the agreement by providing 30 days prior written notice and may, in some cases, terminate the agreement immediately for cause upon notice. In the event that our AWS service agreements are terminated, or there is a lapse of service, elimination of AWS services or features that we utilize, interruption of internet service provider connectivity, or damage to such facilities, we could experience interruptions in access to our platform as well as significant delays and additional expense in arranging or creating new facilities and services and/or re-architecting our SaaS solution for deployment on a different cloud infrastructure service provider, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely on third-party software to provide many essential financial and operational services to support our business. Some of these vendors are less established and have shorter operating histories than traditional software vendors. Moreover, many of these vendors, including Salesforce, NetSuite, Workday, and ServiceNow, provide their services to us via a cloud-based model instead of software that is installed on our premises. As a result, we depend upon these vendors to provide us with services that are always available and are free of errors or defects that could cause disruptions in our business processes. Interruptions, outages, or other disruptions affecting SaaS solutions that we rely on can significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Such disruptions could cause operational delays, inefficiencies, and customer dissatisfaction, which could result in increased customer churn, revenue loss, and increased mitigation costs and potential penalties for not meeting service-level agreements. Frequent or significant disruptions could damage our reputation, making it harder to attract and retain customers. Additionally, service disruptions can result in non-compliance with regulatory requirements, which could lead to legal penalties and increased scrutiny. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing regulations, and changing customer needs, requirements, or preferences, our platform and solutions may become less competitive. The market in which we compete is relatively new and subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and changing regulations, as well as changing customer needs, requirements, and preferences. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt and respond effectively to these changes on a timely basis. In addition, as our customers technologies and business plans grow more complex, we expect them to face new and increasing challenges. Our customers require that our solution effectively identifies and responds to these challenges without disrupting the performance of our customers IT systems. As a result, we must continually modify and improve our solutions and introduce or acquire new solutions in response to changes in our customers IT infrastructures. We may be unable to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop enhancements to our platform or existing solutions or new solutions to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce enhancements to our platform and existing solutions and new solutions, those enhancements and new solutions may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Our enhancements or new solutions could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing platform or solutions enhancements or new solutions; inability to interoperate effectively with existing or newly introduced technologies, systems, or applications of our existing and prospective customers; defects, errors, or failures in our platform or solutions; negative publicity about the performance or effectiveness of our platform or solutions; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; installation, configuration, or usage errors by our customers or partners; and changing of regulatory requirements related to security. If we were unable to enhance our platform or existing solutions or develop new solutions that keep pace with rapid technological and industry change, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver competitive products and services at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. Real or perceived errors, failures, or disruptions in our platform and solutions could adversely affect our customers satisfaction with our solutions and/or our industry reputation and business could be harmed. Our platform and solutions are very complex and have contained and may contain undetected defects, vulnerabilities, or errors, especially when solutions are first introduced or enhanced. Our platform and solutions are often used in connection with large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, equipment, and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures of products, or other aspects of the computing environment into which our solutions are deployed. If our platform and solutions are not implemented or used correctly or as intended, inadequate performance and disruption of service may result. In addition, deployment of our platform and solutions into complicated, large-scale computing environments may expose errors, failures, or vulnerabilities in our solutions. Any such errors, failures, or vulnerabilities may not be found until after they are deployed to our customers. Some of our software and features are powered by ML and AI, which depend on datasets and algorithms that could be flawed, including through inaccurate, insufficient, outdated, or biased data. From time to time, we have experienced errors, failures, and bugs in our platform that have resulted in customer downtime, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to mitigate future errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in a quick or cost-effective manner. We and certain of our third-party service providers have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, performance issues due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website, or third-party hosting disruptions or capacity constraints due to a number of potential causes including technical failures, cyber attacks, security incidents, natural disasters, or fraud. We have also been the target of distributed denial of service attacks and other 33 Table of Contents cybersecurity attacks that attempt to disrupt our services. If our or our third-party service providers products, solutions, or corporate security are compromised, our website, professional services, customer support, or SaaS solution is unavailable, or there are flaws in our ML and AI processes, our business could be negatively affected. Moreover, if our security measures or solutions or third-party service providers are subject to cyber attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our website or other solutions, our solutions may be perceived as insecure, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. In particular, our cloud-based solutions may be especially vulnerable to interruptions, performance problems, or cyber attacks. Furthermore, our solutions may not help detect situations in which a valid user identity has been compromised, for example as part of a highly sophisticated cyber attack of the type described below. If we, our third-party service providers, our partners, or one or more customers were to suffer a highly publicized breach, even if our platform and solutions perform effectively, such a breach could cause our customers or potential customers to lose trust in our identity security solutions in general, which could cause us to suffer reputational harm, lose existing commercial relationships and customers, or deter them from purchasing additional products, and prevent new customers from purchasing our solutions. Highly publicized cybersecurity events have heightened consumer, legislative, and regulatory awareness of these kinds of cybersecurity risks, while further emboldening individuals or groups to target IT systems more aggressively, highlighting the vulnerability of IT supply chains. We continue to invest in the personnel, infrastructure, and third-party best practice software solutions and services necessary to mitigate these risks. However, if we are unable to attract and retain personnel with the necessary cybersecurity expertise, or fail to implement sufficient safeguarding measures, we may not be able to prevent, detect, and mitigate potentially disruptive events which could occur in the future. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these events within an acceptable period of time. Even with these investments, we may not be able to stop a complex and sophisticated cyber attack. Such attacks can be particularly difficult to prevent or fully mitigate when they occur in the supply chain. If we are or become a target of such an attack, we may not be able to prevent, detect, and mitigate such an attack, which could cause disruptions in service or other performance problems, hurt our reputation and our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, and damage our customers businesses. Since our customers use our platform and solutions for important aspects of their security environment and operational business, any real or perceived errors, failures, or vulnerabilities in our solutions, or disruptions in service or other performance problems, could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. Furthermore, defects, errors, vulnerabilities, or failures in our platform or solutions may require us to implement design changes or software updates. Any defects, vulnerabilities, or errors in our platform or solutions, or the perception of such defects, vulnerabilities, or errors, could result in: (i) expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work around errors or defects; (ii) loss of existing or potential customers or channel partners; (iii) delayed or lost revenue; (iv) delay or failure to attain market acceptance; (v) delay in the development or release of new solutions; (vi) negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; (vii) an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation; and (viii) harm to our operating results. The contractual protections we have in our standard terms and conditions of sale, such as warranty disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions, may not fully or effectively protect us from claims by customers, commercial relationships, or other third parties. Any insurance coverage we may have may not adequately cover all claims asserted against us or may cover only a portion of such claims. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and the diverting of managements time and other resources. If our platform and solutions do not effectively interoperate with our customers existing or future IT infrastructure and applications, implementations could be delayed or cancelled, which would harm our business. Our success depends on the interoperability of our platform and solutions with third-party applications and data that we have not developed and do not control. Any changes in such applications or data that degrade the functionality of our platform or solutions or give preferential treatment to competitive software could adversely affect the adoption and usage of our solutions. We may not be successful in adapting our platform or solutions to operate effectively with these applications or data. If it is difficult for our customers to access and use our platform or solutions, or if our platform or solutions cannot connect a broadening range of applications and data, then our customer growth and retention may be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our platform and solutions could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Our platform and solutions are deployed in a wide variety of IT infrastructures, including large-scale, complex technology environments, and we believe our future success will depend, at least in part, on our ability to support such deployments. Implementations of our platform and solutions may be technically complicated, and it may not be easy to maximize the value of our platform and solutions without proper implementation, training, and support. Some of our customers have experienced difficulties implementing our platform and solutions in the past and may experience implementation difficulties in the future. If we or our customers are unable to implement our platform and solutions successfully, customer perceptions of our platform and solutions may be impaired, our reputation and brand may suffer, or customers may choose not to renew their subscriptions or purchase additional identity security solutions from us. Any failure by customers to appropriately implement our platform and solutions or any failure of our platform and solutions to effectively integrate and operate within our customers data management infrastructure could result in customer dissatisfaction, impact the perceived reliability of our platform and solutions, result in negative press coverage, negatively affect our reputation, and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We use third-party licensed software, third-party licensed services, and cloud services subscriptions in or with our solutions, and the inability to maintain these licenses and subscriptions or issues with the software we license or services we leverage could result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. Our solutions include software or other intellectual property licensed from certain third parties, and we use certain software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties in our business. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and intellectual property in the future, and from time to time, we may be required to renegotiate our current third-party licenses or license additional technology from third parties to develop new solutions or enhancements thereto or to facilitate new business models. This exposes us to risks over which we may have little or no control. For example, the third-party software we currently license may not always be available, or available on commercially reasonable terms, and we may not have access to alternative third-party software in the event of any issues with such software. In addition, a third party may assert that we or our customers are in breach of the terms of applicable licenses, which could, among other things, force us to cease use of such software and give such third party the right to terminate the applicable license or seek damages from us, or both. Additionally, we may not have the right to control the maintenance, prosecution, preparation, filing, enforcement, defense, or litigation of intellectual property that we license from third parties and are reliant on our licensors to do so. We also cannot be certain that activities such as intellectual property protection, maintenance, prosecution, and enforcement by our licensors have been or will be conducted consistent with our best interests or in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable intellectual property rights. It is possible that our licensors infringement proceedings or defense activities may be less vigorous than had we conducted them ourselves or may not be conducted in accordance with our best interests. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may offer our solutions. Our inability to obtain or maintain certain licenses or other rights, to obtain or maintain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation or any other proceedings regarding these matters could result in delays in releases of new solutions and could otherwise disrupt our business, until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed, or developed, if at all. Also, to the extent that our platform and solutions depend upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors, vulnerabilities, compromises, or defects in such third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our solutions, delay new feature introductions, result in a failure of our platform, and injure our reputation. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to obtain, maintain, protect, defend, or adequately enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights, our competitive position could be impaired, and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue, and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. We regard the protection of our copyrights, proprietary software, trademarks, domain names, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights as critical to our success. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, and unfair competition laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and agreements, protective covenant agreements, and other contractual protections with our employees, independent contractors, advisers, channel partners, resellers, and customers to protect our trade secrets, proprietary information, and intellectual property rights. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on foreign, federal, state, and common law rights, as well as certain contractual restrictions. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, including physical, operational, and managerial protections of our confidential information, contractual obligations of confidentiality, assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, license agreements, the prosecution, defense, 35 Table of Contents enforcement, protection, and maintenance of registrations and applications for registration of intellectual property rights, and the defense and enforcement of common law rights require significant resources and may be inadequate. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent, and domain name protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and expenses and the costs of defending and enforcing our rights. Given the costs and expenses of obtaining, maintaining, protecting, exploiting, defending, and enforcing our intellectual property rights, we may choose not to obtain, maintain, protect, exploit, defend, or enforce certain intellectual property rights that later turn out to be important. We cannot guarantee that our efforts to obtain, maintain, protect, exploit, defend, or enforce our intellectual property rights are adequate or that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate permissions or protections for all of the intellectual property rights we use or rely on. Our registered or unregistered trademarks, trade names, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, infringed, diluted, circumvented, misappropriated, or otherwise violated or declared invalid or unenforceable or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks. Our domain names and social media handles may also be misappropriated or otherwise misused. Further, at times, competitors may adopt trade names, trademarks, domain names, or social media handles similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build, maintain, or extend brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion or brand dilution. Furthermore, even if we are able to obtain intellectual property rights, any challenge to our intellectual property rights could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. Litigation may become necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. We may be unable to prevent the misappropriation or disclosure of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others, which may diminish the value of our brand and other intangible assets and allow competitors to more effectively mimic our solutions. While it is our policy to require our employees, contractors, and other parties with whom we conduct business who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property for us to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Additionally, any such assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Further, although it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has or may have had access to our trade secrets, confidential information, software, or other proprietary technology and, even if entered into, these agreements may otherwise fail to effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary or confidential rights, information, or technologies, may be limited as to their term, or may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure, misappropriation, use, or other violation of our trade secrets, confidential information, and other proprietary rights or technologies. We pursue the registration or protection of our domain names and trademarks in the United States and in certain jurisdictions abroad. However, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and effective intellectual property protection and enforcement mechanisms may not be available in those jurisdictions, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement, misappropriation, dilution, or other violation of our intellectual property or marketing of competing products or solutions in violation of our intellectual property rights generally. We may need to expend additional resources to defend our intellectual property in these countries. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, including contractual counterparties, which may be costly to defend, result in damage to our reputation, and could require us to pay significant damages, limit our ability to use certain technologies, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to notices or claims that we have infringed, misappropriated, or misused the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, including third parties that may have significantly larger and more mature patent holdings than we do or are patent holding companies whose sole business is to assert such claims. To the extent we increase our visibility in the market, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property claims. Additionally, despite our efforts to ensure that our employees, contractors, consultants, vendors, and service providers do not use the intellectual property and other proprietary information or know-how of third parties in their work for us, intellectual property, including copyrighted materials, trade secrets, software code, or other proprietary information, we have been and could in the 36 Table of Contents future be subject to claims that we, our employees, or our contractors, consultants, vendors, and service providers have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, copyrighted materials, trade secrets, or other proprietary information of our competitors, former employers, or other parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our solutions, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of these parties. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop, market, and support potential solutions or enhancements, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Our agreements with customers and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them or otherwise be liable for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our platform, solutions, or other contractual obligations. See Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, misappropriation, or violation as well as other losses. Any intellectual property, indemnification, or wrongful use or disclosure claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive, could require litigation, and could divert our managements attention and other resources. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. These claims could also result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third partys rights. We might be required to seek a license for the intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any aspect of our business that may ultimately be determined to infringe on or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of another party, we could be forced to limit or stop sales of licenses to our platform and solutions and may be unable to compete effectively. We could also lose valuable intellectual property rights or key personnel as a result of a wrongful disclosure dispute. Furthermore, we may be subject to indemnification obligations with respect to third-party intellectual property pursuant to our agreements with our channel partners or customers. Any of these results would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, misappropriation, or violation as well as other losses. Our agreements with customers and certain partners include indemnification provisions under which we agree to defend and indemnify such customer or partner for losses suffered or incurred as a result of third-party claims for intellectual property infringement or misappropriation of our solutions. The intellectual property infringement indemnity to such customers or partners is an uncapped liability for which we would be responsible, and intellectual property indemnity provisions survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. From time to time, customers also require us to indemnify them for a third-party claim for a violation of law arising from our breach of obligations under the applicable agreement. The existence of such a dispute may have adverse effects on our customer relationship and reputation, and even if we contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we may still incur substantial liability related to them. Any assertions by a third party, whether or not successful, with respect to any of these indemnification obligations could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation, expensive remediation and licenses, divert management attention and financial resources, harm our relationship with that customer and other current and prospective customers, reduce demand for our platform and solutions, and harm our brand, business, operating results, and financial condition. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other existing customers and new customers and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our solutions and subject us to possible litigation. Some aspects of our platform and solutions are built using open source software, and we intend to continue to use open source software in the future. From time to time, we contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses or release internal software projects under open source software licenses and anticipate doing so in the future. Open source software is generally freely accessible, usable, and modifiable. However, certain open source licenses may, in certain circumstances, require us to offer our solutions that incorporate the open source software for no cost, make available source 37 Table of Contents code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, incorporate or use the open source software, and/or license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license or otherwise unfavorable terms. The terms of certain open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to monetize our solutions. While we try to insulate our proprietary code from the effects of such open source license provisions, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful, that all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our solutions, that our developers have not incorporated open source software into our solutions in potentially disruptive ways, or that they will not do so in the future. Additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source software license. These claims could result in costly litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license, or cease offering the implicated solutions unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement or violation. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. We could also be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software and, thus, may contain security vulnerabilities or broken code. Moreover, some open source projects have known security and other vulnerabilities and architectural instabilities, or are otherwise subject to security attacks due to their wide availability, and are provided on an as-is basis. There is typically no support available for open source software, and we cannot ensure that the authors of such open source software will implement or push updates to address security risks or will not abandon further development and maintenance. Further, our use of any AI tools that use, incorporate, or output any open source software may heighten the foregoing risks. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Indebtedness We may incur significant indebtedness, which could reduce our strategic flexibility and liquidity and may have other adverse effects on our results of operations. We are currently party to a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) that provides for a senior secured term loan facility (the Term Loan) in an original aggregate principal amount of $1.59 billion and a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $125.0 million (the Revolving Credit Facility). While as of March 27, 2025, we have fully repaid the Term Loan and have no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under the Revolving Credit Facility, we have historically relied on the availability of debt financing and we may incur significant indebtedness in the future under the Revolving Credit Facility or otherwise. We may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions, which may increase our indebtedness. Our ability to meet our future debt service obligations, if any, will depend on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control, including the factors described in this Risk Factors section. If we are unable to generate adequate cash flow to meet any such obligations, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Prevailing economic conditions and global credit markets could adversely impact our ability to do so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, our existing Credit Agreement and any of our future debt agreements may contain restrictive covenants that prohibit us from adopting any of these alternatives. The amount and terms of any future indebtedness could also make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, less able to withstand competitive pressures, and less flexible in responding to changing business and economic conditions as well as require us to allocate more of our cash flow from operations to the payment of outstanding indebtedness, rather than research and development or business growth. The terms, conditions, and restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement could expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. The Credit Agreement contains, and any future debt agreements may contain, various covenants that, among other things, limit our and certain of our subsidiaries abilities to: incur additional indebtedness or guarantee indebtedness of others; create additional liens on our assets; merge, consolidate, or dissolve; make loans or investments, including acquisitions; 38 Table of Contents sell assets; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; pay dividends and make other distributions on our capital stock, and redeem and repurchase our capital stock; or enter into transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains, and any future debt agreements may also contain, numerous affirmative covenants, including financial covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our then outstanding debt. Interest rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility, if any, bears interest at variable rates, and we may incur additional variable interest rate indebtedness in the future. This exposes us to interest rate risk, and any interest rate swaps we enter into in order to reduce interest rate volatility may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations We will face risks associated with the growth of our business with certain heavily regulated industry verticals. We market and sell our platform and solutions to customers in heavily regulated industry verticals, including the banking, healthcare, and financial services industries. As a result, we face additional regulatory scrutiny, risks, and burdens from the governmental entities and agencies that regulate those industries. Entering new heavily regulated verticals and expanding in those verticals in which we are already operating will continue to require significant resources to address potential regulatory scrutiny, risks, and burdens, and there is no guarantee that such efforts will be successful or beneficial to us. If we are unable to successfully penetrate these verticals, maintain our market share in such verticals in which we already operate or cost-effectively comply with governmental and regulatory requirements applicable to our activities with customers in such verticals, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed. Any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policy or legal or regulatory requirements, rules, industry standards, contractual requirements, and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity, in one or multiple jurisdictions could result in proceedings, actions, or penalties against us. Our solutions analyze and otherwise process customer information, including personal information and other information supplied by our customers. Our standard customer agreement prohibits customers from sending to or storing sensitive customer data in our solutions, whether proprietary data, confidential data, sensitive personal data, or otherwise. However, we may enter into agreements with customers with unique terms that allow for certain sensitive customer data to be sent to and stored in our solutions. Further, our customers use of data concerning, among others, their employees, contractors, customers, and/or partners is essential to their use of our platform and solutions, and our solutions are not architected in a manner that prevents our customers from submitting or storing sensitive customer data. We have implemented various features intended to enable our customers to better secure their information and comply with applicable privacy and security requirements in their data governance, but these features do not ensure their compliance and may not be effective against all potential privacy and identity security concerns. A wide variety of domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and contractual requirements apply to the use and processing of proprietary, confidential, and sensitive information, including personal information. These laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, contractual requirements, and other obligations are constantly evolving, and we expect that we will continue to become subject to new proposed laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, contractual requirements, and other obligations in the United States, the EU, the UK, and other jurisdictions. For example, in the United States, there are numerous federal, state, and local privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity laws, rules, and regulations governing the use and processing of personal data. At the federal level, we are subject to, among other laws, rules, and regulations, the rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, which has the authority to regulate and enforce against unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, including acts and practices with respect to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity. Moreover, Congress has 39 Table of Contents considered, and continues to consider, many proposals for comprehensive national data privacy and cybersecurity legislation. As another example, at the state level, we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (collectively, CCPA)), which, amongst other things, requires businesses to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices, implement new operational practices, honor requests from California residents to exercise certain privacy rights (such as the right to access and request deletion of their personal information and to opt out of certain sharing and sales of personal information) and provides for civil penalties of up to $7,500 per violation, as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that may increase the likelihood of and risks associated with data breach litigation. Many other states have also enacted, or are in the process of enacting, comprehensive privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity laws, rules, and regulations that share similarities with the CCPA, which creates the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different state laws. In addition, all 50 states have laws that require the provision of notification for security breaches of personal information to affected individuals, state officers, or others. Possible consequences for non-compliance with these various state laws include enforcement actions in response to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of federal agencies, state attorneys general, and legislatures and consumer protection agencies. Outside of the United States, an increasing number of laws, rules, regulations, and industry standards apply to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity. For example, we are subject to the GDPR in the EU, and in the UK, we are subject to the UKs Data Protection Act 2018 as supplemented by the GDPR as implemented into UK law (collectively, UK GDPR), both of which impose similar, stringent data protection requirements. The GDPR and UK GDPR are wide-ranging in scope and impose numerous additional requirements on companies that process personal data, including imposing special requirements in respect of the processing of personal data, requiring that consent of individuals to whom the personal data relates is obtained in certain circumstances, requiring additional disclosures to individuals regarding data processing activities, requiring that safeguards are implemented to protect the security and confidentiality of personal data, creating mandatory data breach notification requirements in certain circumstances, and requiring that certain measures (including contractual requirements) are put in place when engaging third-party processors. The GDPR and UK GDPR also provide individuals with various rights in respect of their personal data, including rights of access, erasure, portability, rectification, restriction, and objection. Failure to comply with the GDPR and the UK GDPR can result in significant fines and other liability, including fines of up to EUR 20 million (or GBP 17.5 million under the UK GDPR) or four percent of global revenue, whichever is greater. European data protection authorities have shown a willingness to impose significant fines and issue orders preventing the processing of personal data on non-compliant businesses and have already imposed fines for GDPR violations up to, in some cases, hundreds of millions of Euros. While the UK GDPR currently imposes substantially the same obligations as the GDPR, the UK GDPR will not automatically incorporate changes to the GDPR going forward (which would need to be specifically incorporated by the UK government). Moreover, the UK government has publicly announced plans to reform the UK GDPR in ways that, if formalized, are likely to deviate from the GDPR, all of which creates a risk of divergent parallel regimes and related uncertainty, along with the potential for increased compliance costs and risks for affected businesses. Legal developments in the European Economic Area (EEA) and the UK, including rulings from the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), have also created complexity and uncertainty regarding processing and transfers of personal data from the EEA and the UK to the United States and other so-called third countries outside the EEA and the UK that have not been determined by the relevant data protection authorities to provide an adequate level of protection for privacy rights. Case law from the CJEU indicates that reliance on the standard contractual clausesa standard form of contract approved by the European Commission as an adequate personal data transfer mechanismalone may not necessarily be sufficient in all circumstances and that transfers must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In July 2023, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision in relation to the new EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (DPF) rendering the DPF effective as a GDPR transfer mechanism for personal data transferred from the EEA to the United States by U.S. entities self-certified under the DPF. In October 2023, the UK Extension to the DPF came into effect, as approved by the UK government, as a data transfer mechanism from the UK to U.S. entities self-certified under the DPF. While we have taken steps to mitigate the impact on us, such as implementing the European Commissions standard contractual clauses, the efficacy and longevity of these mechanisms remains uncertain. Other jurisdictions outside the EU and the UK are similarly introducing or enhancing privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity laws, rules, and regulations, which could increase our compliance costs and the risks associated with noncompliance. We cannot yet fully determine the impact these or future laws, rules, and regulations may have on our business or operations. These laws, rules, and regulations may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, subject to differing interpretations, and may be interpreted to conflict with our practices. While we have implemented