Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Report. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Net sales $ 2,623 $ 2,505 $ 2,271 $ 2,148 $ 2,201 Net income 460 457 384 347 342 Per share: Net income Basic 3.80 3.78 3.17 2.84 2.70 Net income Diluted 3.77 3.72 3.12 2.80 2.65 Dividends 0.80 0.72 0.64 0.58 0.52 Cash dividends 97 86 78 71 66 Total assets 3,820 3,281 3,027 2,714 2,557 Long-term debt 300 300 300 100 200 Pension obligations Long term 91 93 64 51 53 Post-retirement medical benefit plans 44 50 46 43 40 - 17 - Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Management's Discussion And Analysis ($ In Millions, Except Per Share Data) The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Overview The Company is a leading Life Science and High Technology company whose biochemical and organic chemical products, kits and services are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostics and high technology manufacturing. Our customers include pharmaceutical and life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and industry. We believe over 1.4 million scientists and technologists use our products. We operate in 37 countries and have approximately 9,000 employees worldwide. Historically, the Company has operated with the Research units of Essentials, Specialties and Biotech and SAFC. During 2012, the 3 Research units were condensed into 1 Research business unit. Effective January 1, 2013, the Company's business unit structure was realigned into 3 market-focused business units that are defined by the customers and markets they serve: Research, Applied and SAFC Commercial. The units are closely interrelated in their activities, share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, the e-commerce infrastructure, including the Company's website, purchasing and inventory control and share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety and compliance and information technology. The Research business unit, representing approximately 67 percent of sales for 2012, provides laboratory reagents to value conscious buyers, facilitates research by scientists through innovation in services and new products and provides first-to-market, innovative products and technologies to the Life Science researcher. SAFC, representing approximately 33 percent of sales for 2012, supports the manufacturing needs of commercial project managers through rapid delivery of custom products and services. The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non-profit organizations located in the U.S. and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, economic conditions and government research funding in the U.S., the EU and elsewhere do impact demand from our customers. Strategy The Company's business strategy is designed to drive overall sales and earnings growth and to maintain a return on invested capital at an appropriate premium above the Company's cost of capital. Our key areas of focus address the most significant opportunities and challenges facing the Company, including: Improving Customer Intimacy: We constantly strive to exceed our customers' expectations through offering the right selection of high quality products and services, providing superior customer service and support and consistently delivering products that meet published or agreed specifications when and where our customers need them. The continued enhancement of a world-class e-commerce platform is a significant part of this approach. Expanding Products and Services: Increasing our geographic coverage, particularly in APLA, pursuing new and innovative technologies and expanding our product and service offerings organically and through strategic acquisitions, should enable us to drive continued sales growth. Accelerating Operational Excellence: Through the optimization of our worldwide footprint, strategic sourcing of our products and materials and driving efficiencies in our distribution networks and operating expenses, we aim to continually enhance our operating margins. - 18 - Table of Contents Key Business Trends and Highlights In operating our business and monitoring its performance, the Company considers a number of performance measures, as well as trends affecting our industry as a whole, which include the following: Macroeconomic Concerns Impacting Funding: Uncertainties in the U.S. and Europe around the macroeconomic environment have impacted overall research funding. Industry Consolidation: Our industry remains fragmented with few companies possessing a significant share in any particular market, which allows some participants to continue consolidating specialty, regional and niche players in the industry. The Company plans to continue to explore opportunities to enhance sales growth and increase its market presence through strategic acquisitions, as evidenced by the recent acquisitions of BioReliance and Research Organics. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations: Since we are a multinational corporation that sells and sources products in many different currencies, changes in exchange rates have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future sales and operating results. Emerging Market Growth: With the emerging markets in the APLA region growing at faster rates, we continue to focus our sales efforts on this region and achieved an increase in organic net sales of 10 percent compared to the prior year. The Company further expanded its footprint in this region with the 2012 openings of a new manufacturing facility in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, that serves the fast growing LED market, an expanded distribution center and new packaging facility in Bangalore, India, and a new packaging and quality control facility in Wuxi, China. Growth of Internet: The internet continues to change our marketspace. Ensuring a strong presence in this channel is critical to our long term success. Worldwide sales of Research products through the Company's e-commerce channels, including both web-based and EDI platforms, were $878 during 2012, a 6 percent organic increase compared to 2011, and have grown to over 50 percent of the Company's total sales of Research products. Pharmaceutical Outsourcing: We continue to take advantage of the expanded market opportunities brought about by the outsourcing trend and shift towards biologic drug development throughout the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, with an increased focus on enhancing outsourcing partnerships with our customers. Regulations: Our industry is experiencing opportunities resulting from regulatory trends towards improving the quality of life, with significant focus in the areas of renewable energy and reduced energy consumption. We believe the Company's Hitech business, part of the SAFC Commercial business unit, is poised to take advantage of these opportunities by supplying certain raw materials to manufacturers of LED products. Highlights of our consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2012 , are as follows: Sales were $2,623 , an increase of 5 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding the sales from acquisitions, which increased sales by 5 percent , and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which lowered sales by 3 percent , sales increased organically by 3 percent year over year. Gross profit margin was 51.4 percent , down from 52.9 percent in 2011 primarily as a result of the impact of acquisitions and the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Operating income margin was 25.1 percent , compared to 25.8 percent in 2011 . This decline was largely attributable to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of amortization related to recent acquisitions. Restructuring costs and acquisition transaction costs also lowered the operating income margin in 2012. Lower SG&A as a percentage of sales partially offset these impacts. Diluted net income per share was $3.77 , compared to $3.72 in 2011. During 2012, unfavorable currency impacts of $0.22 were overcome by higher sales levels and cost reduction initiatives, resulting in a 1 percent increase in diluted net income per share over prior year. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $567 , an increase of $72 from last year. Total debt was $683 at December 31, 2012 , an increase of $162 since December 31, 2011 , largely due to additional borrowings to support acquisitions. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with GAAP with certain non-GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. - 19 - Table of Contents With over 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, acquisition impacts. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates; the result is the defined impact of "changes in foreign currency exchange rates" or "changes in FX." While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur in 2013 to applicable exchange rates. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. Management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The Company regularly reviews inventories on hand and records a provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory, inventory not meeting quality standards and inventory subject to expiration. The provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory is based on current estimates of future product demand, market conditions and related management judgment. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the value of inventories. Long-Lived Assets. Long-lived assets, including intangibles with definite lives, are amortized over their expected useful lives. Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized against earnings. Goodwill is assessed annually for impairment. All long-lived assets are assessed whenever events and changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. If impairment is indicated, the asset value is written down to its fair market value. Any significant unanticipated changes in business or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the fair value of these assets and a potential associated impairment. There were no indications of impairment as of December 31, 2012 . Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits. The determination of the obligation and expense for pension and other post-retirement benefits is dependent on the Company's selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries to calculate such amounts. Those assumptions are described in Note 15 Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Plans to the Company's consolidated financial statements in