Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Report. 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net sales $ 2,704 $ 2,623 $ 2,505 $ 2,271 $ 2,148 Net income 491 460 457 384 347 Per share: Net income Basic 4.09 3.80 3.78 3.17 2.84 Net income Diluted 4.06 3.77 3.72 3.12 2.80 Dividends 0.86 0.80 0.72 0.64 0.58 Cash balance 722 724 665 569 373 Cash dividends 103 97 86 78 71 Total assets 3,805 3,820 3,281 3,027 2,714 Short-term debt 65 383 221 239 477 Long-term debt 300 300 300 300 100 Pension obligations Long term 36 91 93 64 51 Post-retirement medical benefit plans 37 44 50 46 43 - 17 - Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Management's Discussion And Analysis ($ In Millions, Except Per Share Data) The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Overview The Company is a leading life science and high technology company whose biochemical and organic chemical products, kits and services are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostics and high technology manufacturing. Our customers include pharmaceutical and life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and a wide range of industrial companies. We believe over 1.4 million scientists and technologists use our products. We operate in 37 countries and have approximately 9,000 employees worldwide. Effective January 1, 2013, the Company's business unit structure was realigned into three market-focused business units that are defined by the customers and markets they serve: Research, Applied and SAFC Commercial. The units are closely interrelated in their activities, share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, e-commerce infrastructure, purchasing and inventory control. The business units also share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these business units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety, compliance and information technology. A summary of our business units is as follows: Research - Our products and services, which include chemicals, reagents and kits, enable scientists to discover and develop new drugs and materials. This business unit generated 52 percent of sales in 2013. Applied - Our products and services, which primarily include high quality components and kits, chemical reagents, critical raw materials and certified reference standards, provide customized solutions to and constitute critical components and materials for diagnostic companies, testing laboratories and industrial companies. This business unit generated 23 percent of sales in 2013. SAFC Commercial - Our products and services are used by our customers to develop and manufacture product and service solutions for the commercial production of pharma, biopharma and electronics products. Products and services include industrial cell culture media, active pharmaceutical ingredients, intermediates, raw materials, biological testing services and organometallic precursors for LED and semiconductor manufacturing. This business unit generated 25 percent of sales in 2013. The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non-profit organizations located in the United States and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, global macro economic conditions and government research funding in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere do impact demand from certain of our customers. Strategy The Company's business strategy is designed to drive overall sales and earnings growth while maintaining a return on invested capital at an appropriate premium above the Company's cost of capital. Our key areas of focus address the most significant opportunities and challenges facing the Company, including: Improving Customer Intimacy: To exceed our customers' expectations, we strive to offer the right selection of high quality products and services, to provide superior customer service and support as well as to consistently deliver products that meet published or agreed specifications when and where our customers need them. The continued enhancement of a leading e-commerce platform is a significant part of this approach. Expanding Products and Services: Increasing our geographic coverage, particularly in the APAC region and Brazil, pursuing new and innovative technologies and expanding our product and service offerings organically and through strategic acquisitions should help us drive continued sales and earnings growth. Accelerating Operational Excellence: Through the optimization of our worldwide footprint, strategic sourcing of our products and materials and driving efficiencies in our distribution networks and operating expenses, we strive to continually enhance our operating margins. - 18 - Table of Contents Key Business Trends and Highlights In operating our business and monitoring its performance, the Company considers a number of performance measures, as well as trends affecting our industry as a whole, which include the following: Macroeconomic Concerns Impacting Funding: Uncertainties in the United States and Europe around the macroeconomic environment and the recent United States federal government shutdown have impacted overall research funding. Industry Consolidation: Competition in the markets we serve remains fragmented with few companies possessing a significant share in any particular market, which allows some participants to continue consolidating specialty, regional and niche players in the industry. The Company plans to continue to explore opportunities to enhance sales growth and increase its market presence through strategic acquisitions. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations: Since we are a multinational corporation that sells and sources products in many different currencies, changes in exchange rates have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future sales and operating results. Emerging Market Growth: We continue to focus our sales efforts on emerging markets given the faster growth rates in these areas. In 2012, the Company further expanded its footprint in this area with the opening of a manufacturing facility in Kaohsiung, Taiwan that serves the electronic markets in Asia, an expanded distribution center and new packaging facility in Bangalore, India and a new packaging and quality control facility in Wuxi, China. Increasing E-Commerce Channel Adoption: The internet continues to change the markets we serve in terms of access and exposure to existing and potential customers. Ensuring a strong presence in this channel is critical to our long term success as it enables us to find innovative ways to meet our customers' information and product selection needs. Worldwide sales of Research and Applied products through the Company's e-commerce channels, including both web-based and EDI platforms, have grown to 48 percent of the Company's total sales of Research and Applied products during 2013 as compared to 45 percent during 2012. Pharmaceutical Partnerships and Outsourcing: We continue to take advantage of the expanded market opportunities brought about by several trends in the Pharmaceutical industry. These include the use of outsourcing partners, a shift towards biological drug development and an increase in industry-academia research partnerships. Highlights of our consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2013 are as follows: Sales were $2,704 , an increase of 3 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding the changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which lowered sales by 1 percent , sales increased organically by 4 percent year over year. Gross profit margin was 50.3 percent , down from 51.4 percent in 2012 . Operating income margin was 24.4 percent , compared to 25.1 percent in 2012 . This decline was largely attributable to $22 of restructuring and other charges incurred during 2013. Net income was $491 compared to $460 in 2012. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the prior year, reduced otherwise reportable net income by $7. Net income was reduced in 2013 due to $7 of after tax restructuring costs, $5 of after tax costs related to a licensing dispute settlement and $4 of after tax costs related to merger and acquisition activity. Net income was reduced in 2012 due to $6 of after tax restructuring costs and $4 of after tax costs related to merger and acquisition activity. Management believes these items affect comparability of results year over year. Excluding these items and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, adjusted net income would have increased 9 percent in 2013 when compared to 2012. Diluted net income per share was $4.06 , compared to $3.77 in 2012. Income taxes were 25.3 percent and 29.8 percent of pretax income for 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $641 , an increase of $74 from last year. Total debt was $365 at December 31, 2013 , a decrease of $318 since December 31, 2012 . The decrease was due to the use of cash to repay a portion of notes payable in 2013. - 19 - Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with U.S. GAAP with certain non-GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, U.S. GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable U.S. GAAP measure. With approximately 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, changes due to acquisitions and divestitures. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity in local currency by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates; the result is the defined impact of "changes in foreign currency exchange rates" or "changes in FX." While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur to applicable exchange rates in 2014 or any future period. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the large volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as a supplemental measure of our ability to generate cash. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of sales and expenses during the periods presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. Management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The Company regularly reviews inventories on hand and records a provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory, inventory not meeting quality standards and inventory subject to expiration. The provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory is based on current estimates of future product demand, market conditions and related management judgment. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the value of inventories. Long-Lived Assets. Long-lived assets, including intangibles with definite lives, are amortized over their expected useful lives. Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized against earnings. Goodwill is assessed annually for impairment. All long-lived assets are assessed whenever events and changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. If impairment is indicated, the asset value is written down to its fair market value. Any significant unanticipated changes in business or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the fair market value of these assets and a potential associated impairment. There were no indications of impairment as of December 31, 2013 . Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits. The determination of the obligation and expense for pension and other post-retirement benefits is dependent on the Company's selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries to calculate such amounts. Those assumptions are described in Note 16 Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Plans to the Company's consolidated financial statements in