Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - 2012 Outlook. These statements are based on assumptions regarding the Company operations, investments and acquisitions and conditions in the markets the Company serves. The Company believes these assumptions are reasonable and well founded. The statements in this Report are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in the Report, due to, but not limited to, such factors as: (1) global economic conditions; (2) changes in pricing and the competitive environment and the global demand for the Companys products; (3) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (4) changes in research funding and the success of research and development activities; (5) failure of planned sales initiatives in our Research and Sigma-Aldrich Fine Chemicals (SAFC) businesses; (6) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations and global supply chain; (7) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates; (8) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, including the matters described in Note 10Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; (9) exposure to litigation including product liability claims; (10) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards; (11) reliance on third party package delivery services; (12) an unanticipated increase in interest rates; (13) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates; (14) the outcome of the outstanding matters described in Note 11Contingent Liabilities and Commitments to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; and (15) acquisitions or divestitures of businesses. A further discussion of the Companys risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I on page 9 of this Report. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. - ii - Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. (a) General Development of Business The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1975. Effective July 31, 1975 (the Reorganization), the Company succeeded, as a reporting company, Sigma International, Ltd., the predecessor of Sigma Chemical Company (Sigma), and Aldrich Chemical Company, Inc. (Aldrich), both of which had operated continuously for more than 20 years prior to the Reorganization. The Companys principal executive offices are located at 3050 Spruce Street, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103. During 2011, the Company acquired two businesses with aggregated sales of $19 million in 2011. On January 31, 2012, the Company acquired BioReliance Holdings, Inc. (BioReliance), a leading provider of global biopharmaceutical testing services. BioReliance had $126 million of sales in 2011. (b) Financial Information About Segments The Company operates in one segment. Information concerning sales for the Companys business units is provided in Note 13Company Operations by Business Unit to the Companys consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. (c) Narrative Description of Business The Company is a leading Life Science and High Technology company. The Company develops, manufactures, purchases and distributes the broadest range of high quality chemicals, biochemicals and equipment available throughout the world. These chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. The Company operates in 40 countries, manufacturing approximately 50,000 of the 167,000 chemical and biochemical products it offers. The Company also offers approximately 45,000 equipment products. The Company sells into 160 countries, servicing over 97,000 accounts representing over 1.3 million individual customers. Products The Company provides products that focus on: research customers that use smaller quantities of our products in basic life science and high-technology research and development; and manufacturing customers that use our products in larger quantities in lab-stage development and manufacturing. To best serve these customers, the Company is organized into a customer-centric structure featuring the Research business units of Essentials, Specialties and Biotech and a Fine Chemicals business unit, SAFC. The Research Essentials business unit sells biological buffers, cell culture reagents, biochemicals, chemicals, solvents and other reagents and kits. These products are typically sold in higher volumes to value conscious research buyers. The Research Specialties business unit sells organic chemicals, biochemicals, analytical reagents, chromatography and other laboratory consumables, reference materials and high-purity products which are generally sold in smaller volumes to the lab scientist customer. The Research Biotech business unit supplies immunochemical, molecular biology, cell biology, proteomic, genomic, transgenic and other life science products to academic, government, industrial, biotechnology and pharmaceutical research customers. - 1 - Table of Contents The SAFC business unit is a top 10 supplier of large-scale organic chemicals and biochemicals used in development and production by pharmaceutical, biotechnology, industrial, diagnostic and electronics companies. Sales and Distribution During 2011, products were sold to over 97,000 accounts representing over 1.3 million individual customers, including pharmaceutical companies, universities, commercial laboratories, industrial companies, biotechnology companies, non-profit organizations, governmental institutions, diagnostic, chemical and electronics companies and hospitals. Orders in laboratory quantities averaging approximately $400 accounted for 71 percent, 72 percent and 72 percent of the Companys net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company also makes its chemical products available in larger-scale quantities for use in manufacturing. Sales of these products accounted for 29 percent, 28 percent and 28 percent of net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Customers and potential customers, wherever located, are encouraged to contact the Company by telephone or via its website (www.sigma-aldrich.com) to place orders or to obtain technical staff consultation. Information on the website does not constitute a part of this Report. Shipments are made at least five days a week from all locations conducting distribution activities. The Company strives to ship its products to customers on the same day an order is received and carries inventory levels which it believes to be appropriate to maintain this practice. Production and Purchasing The Company has chemical production facilities in Madison, Milwaukee and Sheboygan, Wisconsin; St. Louis, Missouri; Lenexa, Kansas; Houston and Round Rock, Texas; Bellefonte, Pennsylvania; Haverhill and Natick, Massachusetts; Urbana, Illinois; Miamisburg, Ohio; Carlsbad, California; Laramie, Wyoming; Australia; Canada; Germany; India; Ireland; Israel; Japan; Singapore; Switzerland; Taiwan; and the United Kingdom. Biochemicals are primarily produced by extraction and purification from yeast, bacteria and other naturally occurring animal and plant sources. Organic and inorganic chemicals are primarily produced by synthesis. Chromatography media and columns are produced using proprietary chemical synthesis and proprietary preparation processes. Similar processes are used for filtration and sample collection processes. There are approximately 167,000 chemical and biochemical products and 45,000 equipment products listed in the Sigma, Aldrich, Fluka and Supelco catalogs. The Company produces approximately 50,000 of the chemical and biochemical products, which represented approximately 60 percent of sales in 2011. Products not manufactured by the Company are purchased from many sources either under contract or in the open market. None of the Companys 10,000 suppliers accounted for more than 5 percent of the Companys chemical, biologic or equipment purchases in 2011. The Company has generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of products and materials to meet its needs. No assurance can be given that shortages will not occur in the future. Whether a product is produced by the Company or purchased from outside suppliers, it is subjected to quality control procedures, including the verification of purity, prior to final packaging. Quality control is performed by a staff of chemists, biologists and lab technicians utilizing highly calibrated equipment. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses The Company holds approximately 500 issued or pending patents, over 570 licenses and has approximately 870 registered trademarks and trademark applications worldwide. The Companys significant trademarks are the brand names: Sigma-Aldrich, Sigma, Aldrich, Fluka, Riedel-de Han, Supelco, SAFC, SAFC Biosciences, SAFC Hitech, Genosys, Proligo, Pharmorphix, Vetec and - 2 - Table of Contents SAGE Labs. The brands are marketed through business units called Research Essentials, Research Specialties, Research Biotech, and SAFC. Their related registered logos and significant trademarks are expected to be maintained indefinitely. Approximately 80 percent of the Companys patent portfolio has a remaining life of at least 5 years. The Company is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. The Company believes that other than its brand names, no single patent, license or trademark (or related group of patents, licenses or trademarks) is material in relation to its business as a whole. In addition to patents, the Company relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. The Company seeks protection of these trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. The Company makes efforts to require its employees, directors, consultants and advisors, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, other advisors and other individuals and entities to execute confidentiality agreements upon the start of employment, consulting or other contractual relationships with the Company. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual or entity during the course of the relationship is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees and some other parties, the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by the individual will be the Companys exclusive property. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for or adequate remedies to protect the Companys technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of information. Furthermore, the Companys trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, its competitors. Dependence on a Single Customer or Product During the year ended December 31, 2011, no single customer accounted for more than 2 percent, and no single product accounted for more than 1 percent of the Companys net sales. Backlog The majority of customer orders are shipped from inventory on the day ordered, resulting in limited backlog. Individual items may occasionally be out-of-stock. These items are shipped as soon as they become available. Some orders for larger scale quantities specify a future delivery date, which we exclude from our backlog calculation. At December 31, 2011, the backlog of firm orders was not significant at about 2 percent of sales. The Company anticipates that substantially all of the backlog as of December 31, 2011 will be shipped during 2012. Competition The markets for the Companys products and services are both competitive and price sensitive. The Company believes it is a major supplier of biochemical and organic chemical products and kits used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. The Company offers approximately 212,000 chemical, biologic and equipment items, some of which are unique with limited demand. There are many competitors that offer a narrower range of chemicals and many others offering a broader range of equipment products. In all product areas, the Company competes primarily on the basis of customer service, product availability, quality and price. The Companys main marketing vehicles include its website, www.sigma-aldrich.com, as well as printed catalogs under the Sigma, Aldrich, Fluka and Supelco brands. These catalogs are supplemented with advertisements in life science, chemical and other scientific journals, the mailing of special product brochures, the electronic distribution of various advertisements and product data, news releases related to new product offerings and through personal visits with customers from management, sales and technical representatives. - 3 - Table of Contents Compliance With Regulations The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with federal, state and local regulations relating to the manufacture, sale and distribution of its products. The following are brief summaries of some of the federal laws and regulations which may have an impact on the Companys business. These summaries are only illustrative of the extensive regulatory requirements of the federal, state and local governments and are not intended to provide the specific details of each law or regulation. The Chemical Safety Information, Site Security and Fuels Regulatory Relief Act of 1999, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, regulate the handling and storage of certain flammable fuels and require an associated risk management program. The Clean Air Act (CAA), as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, regulate the emission of harmful pollutants to the air outside of the work environment. Federal or state regulatory agencies may require companies to acquire permits, perform monitoring and install control equipment for certain pollutants. The Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, regulate facilities that manufacture, use, store or distribute certain chemicals above a listed Screening Threshold Quantity. A regulated facility must complete and submit a Chemical Security Assessment Tool, Top-Screen by January 19, 2008 or within 60 calendar days of coming into possession of the listed chemicals at or above the listed Chemical Safety Information. If required by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the facility must complete and submit to the DHS a Security Vulnerability Assessment and Site Security Plan. The Company has several sites subject to this standard. The Clean Water Act (CWA), as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, regulate the discharge of harmful pollutants into the waters of the United States. Federal or state regulatory agencies may require companies to acquire permits, perform monitoring and to treat wastewater before discharge to the waters of the United States or a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW.) The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, require notification of certain chemical spills and notification to state and local emergency response groups of the availability of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) and the quantities of hazardous materials in the Companys possession. SARA, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, also stresses the importance of permanent remedies and innovative treatment technologies to clean up hazardous waste sites. The Emergency Planning & Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA), as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, regulate MSDSs, chemical inventories and chemical release reporting. EPCRA also requires coordinated emergency planning with state and local agencies. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA), including the Hazard Communication Standard (Right to Know), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, require the labeling of hazardous substance containers, the supplying of MSDSs on hazardous products to customers and hazardous substances to which an employee may be exposed in the workplace, the training of employees in the handling of hazardous substances and the use of the MSDSs, along with other health and safety programs. The Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (PPA), as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, focus on reducing the amount of pollution through cost-effective changes in production and raw materials usage. Pollution prevention also includes other practices that increase efficiency in the use of energy, water or other natural resources, and protect our resource base through conservation. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, require certain procedures regarding the treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous waste. - 4 - Table of Contents The Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976 (TSCA), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, require reporting, testing and pre-manufacture notification procedures for certain chemicals. Exemptions are provided from some of these requirements with respect to chemicals manufactured in small quantities solely for research and development use. The Department of Transportation (DOT) has promulgated regulations pursuant to the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, referred to as the Hazardous Material Regulations (HMR), which set forth the requirements for hazard labeling, classification, packaging of chemicals and shipment modes for products destined for shipment in interstate commerce. The Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (HMTA), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, seeks to protect against risks to life, property and the environment that are inherent in the transportation of hazardous materials in intrastate, interstate and foreign commerce. HMTA regulates the transportation of dangerous goods via air, highway, rail and water. The Company ships and receives materials subject to HMTA. Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH), the European Unions (EU) legislation covering the manufacturing and importation of chemicals, became law in 2007. A number of substances were registered under REACH in 2011. Over the next 6.5 years, the number of registrations will increase significantly. Additionally, the amounts of products imported or manufactured have to be monitored and more information has to be passed along the supply chain. The costs to comply with REACH depend on the behavior of the other participants in the supply chain. The Globally Harmonized System (GHS) is altering the rules for classification, labeling and, to some extent, the content of our MSDSs. In 2011 the system was implemented in Brazil and China, following the previous implementation in Europe and select Asian countries. The U.S. and additional countries in Asia and South America will follow soon. All hazardous products of Sigma-Aldrichs product portfolio will be affected. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) and Veterinary Services (VS) regulates the importation and exportation of animal-derived materials to ensure that exotic animal and poultry diseases are not transferred. The USDA has issued permits and site approvals to several Company sites. Approximately 5,000 products, for which sales are immaterial to the total sales of the Company, are subject to control by either the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) or the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). The DEA and NRC have issued licenses to several Company sites to permit importation, manufacture, research, analysis, distribution and export of certain products. The Company screens customer orders involving products regulated by the DEA and the NRC to verify that a license, if necessary, has been obtained. Approximately 1,300 products, for which sales are immaterial to the total sales of the Company, are subject to licensing by the Department of Commerce (DOC). The DOC has promulgated the Export Administration Regulations pursuant to the Export Administration Act of 1979 (EAA), as amended, to regulate the export of certain products to specific destinations by requiring a special export license. Approximately 250 products, for which sales are immaterial to the total sales of the Company, are regulated by the Department of States Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC). The Company is registered with the DDTC as a manufacturer and exporter of products listed on the United States Munitions List (USML). The Company screens export orders involving products on the USML to verify that an export license is obtained prior to export. Approximately 60 products, for which sales are immaterial to the total sales of the Company, are regulated by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). The U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS) and Agriculture (USDA) published final rules, which implement the provisions of the USA Patriot Act and Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (the Bioterrorism Act), setting forth the requirements for possession, use and transfer of select agents and toxins. The CDC has issued one site license to the Company to permit the storage and transfer of these materials. - 5 - Table of Contents Approximately 850 products, for which sales are immaterial to the total sales of the Company, are sold as flavoring agents regulated by the Bioterrorism Act. The Bioterrorism Act requires that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) receive prior notice of food items imported into the U.S. and register facilities handling such items. The Company has registered several sites under the Bioterrorism Act to enable the importation and handling of these items. The Company engages principally in the business of selling products that are not foods or food additives, drugs or cosmetics within the meaning of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended (the FDC Act). However, a limited number of the Companys products are subject to labeling, manufacturing and other provisions of the FDC Act. The Companys import declarations to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) represent approximately 10,500 entries and 99,000 individual transaction lines from over 80 different countries. Within the Companys U.S. operations, imports encompass approximately 1,500 unique harmonized tariff codes. These codes are largely represented in Chapters 28, 29 and 38, representing organic and inorganic chemicals and compounds and miscellaneous chemical products. These imports are subject to the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, The Customs Modernization Act of 1993 and Title 19 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Research and Development Research and development expenses were 3.0 percent of net sales in both of 2011 and 2010 and 2.9 percent of net sales in 2009. The research and development expenses relate primarily to efforts to add new manufactured products and enhance manufacturing processes. Self-manufactured products accounted for approximately 60 percent of net sales in 2011. Number of Persons Employed The Company had 8,300 employees as of December 31, 2011. The total number employed in the United States was 4,100 with the remaining 4,200 employed by the Companys international subsidiaries. The Company employs approximately 2,700 people who have degrees in chemistry, biochemistry, engineering or other scientific disciplines, including approximately 390 with Ph.D. degrees. Approximately 188 of the 4,200 persons employed by the Companys international subsidiaries were members of unions. None of the Companys employees in the United States were members of unions. The Company believes its labor relations are good. (d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas and Business Units Information concerning sales by geographic area and business unit for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, is located in Note 13Company Operations by Business Unit to the Companys consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. In each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 66 percent of the Companys net sales were to customers located outside the United States. These sales were made directly by the Company, by its subsidiaries located in 39 other countries and by a global network of distributors. (e) Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on the Companys web site at www.sigma-aldrich.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed electronically with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on the website does not constitute part of this Report. - 6 - Table of Contents (f) Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Registrant are: Name of Executive Officer Age Positions and Offices Held Magnus Borg 53 Vice President and Chief Information Officer Gilles A. Cottier 53 Executive Vice President and President, SAFC Eric M. Green 42 Vice President and Managing Director, International Michael C. J. Harris 41 Vice President and Managing Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa Michael F. Kanan 49 Vice President and Corporate Controller George L. Miller 57 Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary Karen J. Miller 54 Senior Vice President, Strategy & Corporate Development Douglas W. Rau 55 Vice President, Human Resources Kirk A. Richter 65 Vice President, Treasurer & Interim Chief Financial Officer Rakesh Sachdev 55 President and Chief Executive Officer David A. Smoller 48 Chief Scientific Officer Gerrit J. C. van den Dool 58 Vice President and Managing Director, U.S. & Canada Steven G. Walton 44 Vice President, Environmental, Health and Safety, Regulation Compliance and Sustainability Franklin D. Wicks 58 Executive Vice President and President, Research There is no family relationship between any of the officers or directors. These officers serve at the pleasure of the Companys Board of Directors subject to the terms of any employment or similar agreements. Mr. Borg has been Vice President and Chief Information Officer since August 2010. He was previously Vice President of Neoris, Inc. from January 2010 to July 2010. He served as Senior Vice President and CIO of Safety-Kleen from August 2005 to December 2009. Mr. Cottier has been President of the SAFC business unit of the Company since January 2009 and was made an Executive Vice President of the Company in 2011. He served as President of the Research Essentials business unit of the Company from July 2005 until January 2009. Mr. Green has been Vice President and Managing Director, International since October 2009. Previously he served as Vice President, International Sales and Operations form August 2005 to September 2009. Mr. Harris has been Vice President and Managing Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa since July 2009. He previously served as Managing Director UK and Vice President, SAFC form July 2006 to June 2009. Mr. Kanan has been Vice President and Corporate Controller of the Company since April 2009. He served as Vice President Finance-Light Vehicle Systems of ArvinMeritor from October 2006 to April 2009. Mr. Miller has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since October 2009. He served as General Counsel of Novartis Services, Inc. from September 2008 to September 2009, and as General Counsel of Novartis Corporation from December 2005 to August 2008. Ms. Miller has been Senior Vice President, Strategy & Corporate Development of the Company since May 2009 and was previously Vice President, Strategy & Corporate Development of the Company from January 2009 through May 2009. Prior to that, she served as Controller of the Company for more than five years. Mr. Rau has been Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since October 2005. - 7 - Table of Contents Mr. Richter has been Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company since November 2010, Vice President and Treasurer of the Company since May 2009, and was previously Treasurer of the Company for more than five years. Mr. Sachdev has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since November 2010. He previously served as the Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company since May 2009. Previously, he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from November 2008 to May 2009. He served as Senior Vice President and President, Asia Pacific of ArvinMeritor from March 2007 to July 2008. He served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Strategy of ArvinMeritor from April 2005 through March 2007. Dr. Smoller has been Chief Scientific Officer of the Company since February 2011. Previously, he served as President of the Research Biotech business unit of the Company from July 2007 to February 2011. He served as Vice President, Research & Development of the Company from June 2004 to June 2007. Mr. van den Dool has been Vice President and Managing Director, U.S. & Canada since February 2011. Previously he served as Vice President, SalesGlobal from April 2008 to January 2011. He served as Vice President, EuropeSales & Operations from June 2006 to March 2008. Mr. Walton has been Vice President, Environmental, Health and Safety, Regulatory Compliance and Sustainability since May 2008. Previously he served as Vice President, Environmental, Health and Safety & Quality from August 2005 to April 2008. Dr. Wicks has been President of Research and an Executive Vice President of the Company since February 2011. He previously served as President of the Research Essentials and Specialties business units of the Company from January 2009 to February 2011 and Managing Director-U.S & Canada from January 2010 to February 2011. Previously, he served as President of the SAFC business unit of the Company for more than five years. - 8 - Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, among others, certain economic, political and technological factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors below, together with other matters described in this Report or incorporated herein by reference, in evaluating our business and prospects. If any one or more of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely impacted and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Sales and Operations Our performance may be affected by the economic conditions in the U.S. and in other nations where we do business. Declining economic conditions may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations, our financial condition and our cash flows. Overall demand for our products could be reduced as a result of a global economic recession, especially in such customer segments as the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, diagnostic, chemical and electronics industries and academia. We face significant competition, including changes in pricing. The markets for our products and services are both competitive and price sensitive. Many of our competitors have significant financial, operations, sales and marketing resources and experience in research and development. Competitors could develop new technologies that compete with our products and services or even render our products obsolete. If a competitor develops superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our products and services, our business could be seriously harmed. The markets for some of our products are also subject to specific competitive risks because these markets are highly price competitive. Our competitors have competed in the past by lowering prices on certain products. If they do so again, we may be forced to respond by lowering our prices. This may reduce sales and possibly profits. Failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may also impact sales and profits. We believe customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their supplier of a particular product. To the extent we are not the first to develop, offer and/or supply new products, customers may buy from our competitors or make materials themselves, causing our competitive position to suffer. Our sales and results of operations are dependent on the research and development spending patterns at pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies. A number of factors impact the amount of money spent on the purchase of research and development products by our customers. Our pharmaceutical customers experienced a softening over the past several years in all geographic areas. The Company does not have the ability to predict when this trend will reverse or the ultimate impact on demand for the our products. Activities within these pharmaceutical companies, which are impacting demand for our products, include various programs to contain costs, shift from discovery to clinical research and mitigate risk in the supply chain through intense vendor management and consolation. The credit crisis commencing in 2008 impacted the ability of small, emerging pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies to access funding. Venture capital funding has since recovered modestly, but not at the levels seen prior to 2008. The degree of funding will impact demand, and the extent to which demand from these customers will continue to be impacted is unknown. Approximately 33 percent of the Companys revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 are from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies. - 9 - Table of Contents Our sales and results of operations depend on our customers research and development efforts and their ability to obtain funding for these efforts. Our customers include researchers at companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, diagnostic, chemical, electronics and related industries, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Our customers determine their research and development budgets based on several factors, including the need to develop new products, the availability of governmental and other funding, competition and the general availability of resources. As we continue to expand our international operations, we expect research and development spending levels in markets outside of the U.S. will become increasingly important to us. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, spending priorities, general economic conditions, institutional and governmental budgetary limitations and mergers of companies in the key industry sectors we serve. Our business could be seriously harmed by any significant decrease in life science and high technology research and development expenditures by our customers. By way of example, since 2009 there have been significant reductions in research staff of both U.S. and European-based pharmaceutical companies. A small portion of our sales have been to researchers whose funding is dependent on grants from government agencies such as the U.S. National Institute of Health, the National Science Foundation, the National Cancer Institute and similar agencies or organizations. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is often unpredictable. Other programs, such as Homeland Security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the U.S. federal budget deficit could be viewed by the government as a higher priority. Any shift away from funding of life science and high technology research and development or delays surrounding the approval of governmental budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products and services, which could seriously damage our business. Some of our customers receive funds from approved grants at a particular time of year, many times set by government budget cycles. In the past, such grants have been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds may affect the timing of purchase decisions by our customers and, as a result, cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. Likewise, public support of research and development in key markets in Europe and elsewhere has come under pressure which may lead to decreased sales of our research products in those jurisdictions. Due to heavy reliance on manufacturing and related operations to produce, package and distribute the products we sell, our business could be adversely affected by disruptions of these operations. We rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce products accounting for approximately 60 percent of our sales. Our quality control, packaging and distribution operations support all of our sales. Any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as labor unrest, power interruptions, fire or other events beyond our control, could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. While insurance coverage may reimburse us, in whole or in part, for profits lost from such disruptions, our ability to provide these products in the longer term may affect our sales growth expectations and results. We have limited redundancies and back-up in our global distribution network. For example, our automated warehouse in Germany handles a significant amount of the distribution of our products outside of the U.S. The efficiency and effectiveness of our global distribution network would be significantly compromised if this warehouse were impacted by a natural disaster or other local disruption. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution and replace the compromised inventory in a timely manner, causing deterioration in our current service levels. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. - 10 - Table of Contents If we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. We depend on information systems throughout the Company to control our manufacturing processes, process orders, manage inventory, process and bill shipments to and collect cash from our customers, respond to customer inquiries, contribute to our overall internal control processes, maintain records of our property, plant and equipment, and record and pay amounts due vendors and other creditors. Additionally, in 2011, approximately 50 percent of the Companys research sales originated through e-commerce. Our systems could also be subject to viruses, break-ins, sabotage, acts of terrorism, acts of vandalism, hacking, cyber-terrorism and similar misconduct. If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in our information systems that involve interactions with customers and suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and/or increased costs, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign agencies that require us to comply with a wide variety of regulations, including those regarding the manufacture and distribution of products and environmental matters. Some of our operations are subject to regulation by various U.S. federal agencies and similar state and international agencies, including the DOC, FDA, DOT, USDA and other comparable U.S., state, local and foreign governmental agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, handling, sales, distribution, importing and exporting of products. If we fail to comply with any or all of these regulations, we may be subject to fines or penalties, have to recall products and/or cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our sales. We are subject to regulations that govern the handling of hazardous substances. We are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern the handling, transportation, manufacture, use, storage, disposal and sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous substances. Some risk of environmental and property damage and environmental liabilities, including potential cleanup liability relating to currently or formerly owned or operated sites or third party disposal sites and liabilities relating to the exposure to hazardous substances, is inherent in our operations and the products we manufacture, sell or distribute. Any failure by us to comply with the applicable government regulations could also result in product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on with or expand in a portion or possibly all of our operations. If we fail to comply with any or all of these regulations, we may be subject to fines or penalties, have to recall products and/or cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our sales. Changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits will impact our tax expense and our profits. We are subject to a variety of taxes in numerous local, regional, national and international jurisdictions. The laws regulating the taxes to which we are subject may change. We have no control over these changes and their impact, if any, on our results. Additionally, results of tax audit activity may also impact our tax provisions and our profits. We reflect changes in our actual or forecast income tax rates as relevant facts and circumstances are known to us. Variations to our forecast tax rates and forecast diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) in the future are possible due in part to tax rate changes and changes in the status of tax uncertainties pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Subtopic 740-10. Litigation may harm our business. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur significant costs and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, customers, - 11 - Table of Contents competitors or others with protected intellectual property could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies, organizations or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes or do so on terms favorable to us. Unexpected results could cause us to have financial exposure in these matters in excess of recorded reserves and insurance coverage, requiring us to provide additional reserves to address these liabilities, therefore impacting profits. Potential product liability claims could affect our earnings and financial condition and harm our reputation. We face potential liability claims arising out of the use of or exposure to our products and/or services. We carry product liability insurance coverage, generally available in the market, but which is limited in scope and amount. Our products are generally used by trained scientists and operators, however, there is no assurance that they will be used in accordance with our terms and conditions of sale. As a result, we could be forced to defend ourselves in connection with the use of these products or services. Although we seek to reduce our potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with customers and/or suppliers, we cannot assure you that such measures will be enforced or effective. Our financial position could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not executed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnification. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Unexpected results could cause us to have financial exposure in these matters in excess of recorded reserves and insurance coverage, requiring us to provide additional reserves to address these liabilities, impacting profits. If we fail to maintain adequate quality standards for our products and services, our business may be adversely affected and our reputation harmed. Our life science and high technology customers are often subject to rigorous quality standards to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of their products and the manufacturing processes that generate them. A failure to maintain, or in some instances upgrade, our quality standards to meet our customers needs could result in the loss of a customers regulatory license and potentially substantial sales losses to us. We heavily rely on third party air cargo carriers and other package delivery services, and a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products or import materials, increase our costs and lower our profitability and harm our reputation. We emphasize our prompt service and shipment of products as a key element of our sales and marketing strategy. We ship a significant number of products to our customers through independent package delivery companies. In addition, we transport materials between our worldwide facilities and import raw materials from worldwide sources. Consequently, we heavily rely on air cargo carriers and other third party package delivery providers. If any of our key third party providers were to experience a significant disruption such that any of our products, components or raw materials could not be delivered in a timely fashion or we would incur additional costs that we could not pass on to our customers, our costs may increase and our relationships with certain customers may be adversely affected. In addition, if these third party providers increase prices, and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments to our selling prices, our profitability could be adversely affected. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Most of our products and services are highly technical in nature. In general, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop, manufacture and market our products and provide our - 12 - Table of Contents services. In addition, some of our manufacturing, quality control, safety and compliance, information technology, sales and e-commerce related positions require persons possessing highly technical skills. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled professionals. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, customers, marketing partners and other companies throughout the industries in which we compete. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals would seriously damage our business. We depend heavily on the services of our senior management. We believe that our future success depends on the continued services of our management team. Our business may be harmed by the loss of a significant number of our senior management members in a short period of time. Our business may be adversely affected by a decrease in the availability of commercial paper or other forms of credit. We had $221 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2011. If the market for commercial paper or other forms of credit becomes restricted or unavailable, our business could be adversely affected including our consolidated results of operations, our financial condition and our cash flows. Our sales and operating results may vary from period to period. Our sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, depending on a variety of factors including, without limitation, those previously identified within other risk factors and the following: the timing of our research and development, sales and marketing expenses and other charges; the timing of significant custom sales orders, typically associated with our SAFC and Research Biotech businesses; the expected higher level of sales growth in SAFC creating downward pressure on overall gross profit margins; an increase in the sale of commoditized Research products creating downward pressure on overall gross profit margins; changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and unanticipated loss of market value of the securities we hold that are traded on public markets. Our expense levels are based in part on our future sales expectations. Consequently, sales or profits may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or from year to year, and sales and profits in any interim period may not necessarily be indicative of results in subsequent periods. Technology innovations in the markets that we serve may create alternatives to our products and result in reduced sales. Technology innovations, which our current and potential customers might have access to, could reduce or eliminate their need for our products. A new, competing or other disruptive technology that reduces or eliminates the use of one or more of our products could negatively impact the sale of those products. Our customers also constantly attempt to reduce their manufacturing costs and improve product quality. We may be unable to respond on a timely basis to any or all of the changing needs of our customer base. Our failure to develop, introduce or enhance products able to compete with new technologies in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, specific industries in which we strategically place investments, such as the light emitting diode industry, may not generate expected returns as new technologies are generated. - 13 - Table of Contents Demand for our products and services is subject to the commercial success of our customers products, which may vary for reasons outside our control. Even if we are successful in securing utilization of our products in a customers manufacturing process, sales of many of our products and services remain dependent on the timing and volume of the customers production, over which we have no control. The demand for our products depends on regulatory approvals and frequently depends on the commercial success of the customers supported product. Regulatory processes are complex, lengthy, expensive and can often take years to complete. Commercial success of a customers product, which would drive demand in their production and commensurate demand for our products and services, is dependent on many factors, some of which can change rapidly, despite early positive indications. Rapid changes in the healthcare industry could directly or indirectly adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our sales is derived from companies in the healthcare industry. This industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to control costs. These changes include: development of large and sophisticated group purchasing organizations; healthcare reform legislation; consolidation of pharmaceutical companies; increased outsourcing of certain activities, including to low-cost offshore locations; lower reimbursements for research and development; and legislative limitations on healthcare research. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing the ability to perform healthcare related research and the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry customers to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. We may be unable to establish and maintain collaborative development and marketing relationships with business partners, which could result in a decline in sales or slower than anticipated growth rates. As a part of our business strategy, we have formed, and intend to continue to form, strategic alliances and distribution arrangements with partners relating to the development and commercialization of certain of our existing and potential products to increase our sales and to leverage our product and service offerings. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional, acceptable strategic alliances with such companies. In addition, we cannot ensure that parties with which we have established, or will establish, collaborative relationships will not, either directly or in collaboration with others, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products in addition to, or instead of, products offered as a result of these collaborations. Our business partners may also experience financial or other difficulties that lessen their value to us and to our customers. Our results of operations and opportunities for growth may be adversely affected by our failure to establish and maintain successful collaborative relationships. Lack of early success with our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers can shut us out of future business with those customers. A number of the products we sell to pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are incorporated into the customers drug manufacturing processes. In some cases, once a customer chooses a particular product for use in a drug manufacturing process, it is unlikely that the customer will later switch to a competing - 14 - Table of Contents alternative. In many cases, the regulatory license for the product will specify the products qualified for use in the process. Obtaining the regulatory approvals needed for a change in the manufacturing process is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. Accordingly, if a pharmaceutical or biotechnology customer does not select our products early in its manufacturing design phase for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, cost, ease of use, ability to supply large quantities or similar reasons, we may lose the opportunity to participate in the customers manufacturing of such product. Because we face competition in this market from other companies, we run the risk that our competitors could win significant early business with a customer making it difficult for us to recover the late stage commercialization opportunity. We have significant inventories on hand. We maintain significant inventories and have an allowance for slow-moving and obsolete inventory. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions, including the current uncertainty in the global market, could also have an impact on the value of inventory and adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, if it would become necessary to rework product to make it saleable, this additional effort would impact the cost and impact our operating results. We expect to continue to implement various process improvement initiatives that may not achieve the desired results. We have implemented a number of changes designed to improve operating efficiencies and reduce costs. We expect to continue to identify opportunities for operational efficiencies and cost reduction and implement changes to achieve these efficiencies. Such improvements may lead to, among other things, the consolidation and integration of products, brands, facilities, functions, systems and processes, any or all of which might present significant management challenges. There can be no assurance that such actions will be accomplished as rapidly as anticipated or that the full extent of expected cost reductions will be achieved. Risks Related to Growth of Our Business Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy. We have acquired or invested in several businesses and technologies and routinely review additional opportunities. Certain risks exist including, without limitation, the potential for: the acquisition or investment failing to provide the benefits originally anticipated by management; difficulties in integrating the operations and systems of the acquired businesses and in realizing operating synergies; difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and customers of the acquired companies; managements attention being diverted to the integration of the acquired businesses or acceptance of the acquired technology; rising interest rates on debt needed to provide cash to fund the purchase price of acquisitions; and unanticipated contract or regulatory issues. None of these difficulties have been historically significant, but if they were to be in the future, we may be unable to achieve expectations from our acquisition strategy. In addition, we compete with other companies for suitable acquisition targets and may not be able to acquire certain targets that we seek. Also, certain businesses we have acquired or invested in may not generate the cash flow and/or earnings or other benefits we anticipated at the time of their acquisition. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate acquisitions in a timely manner, such acquisitions may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to hire and retain key management personnel, we may not be able to execute our acquisition strategy. - 15 - Table of Contents We must continually offer new products and technologies. Our success depends in large part on continuous and timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving customer needs and changes in the market. We also believe that because of the initial time investment required by our customers to reach a purchasing decision for a new product, it may be difficult to regain that customer once the customer purchases a product from a competitor. These facts have led us to focus significant efforts and resources on the development and identification of new technologies and products. As a result, we have a very broad product line and are continually seeking to develop, license or acquire new technologies and products to further broaden our offering. If we fail in these efforts, our customers likely will purchase products from our competitors, significantly harming our business. Once we develop or obtain a technology, to the extent that we fail to timely introduce new and innovative products that are accepted by our markets, we could fail to obtain an adequate return on our research and development, licensing and acquisition investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which would be difficult or impossible to regain and could seriously damage our business. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of our products include, without limitation,: availability, quality and price as compared to competitive products; the functionality of new and existing products; the timing of introduction of our products compared to competitive products; scientists opinions of the products utility and our ability to incorporate their feedback into future products; citation of the products in published research; and general trends in life sciences research. Risks Related to International Operations Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business. Since we are a multinational corporation that sells and sources products in many different countries, changes in exchange rates have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. For example, the effect of translating foreign currency sales into U.S. dollars increased 2011 sales by 3.7 percent, increased 2010 sales by 0.4 percent and decreased 2009 sales by 4.1 percent, respectively. Furthermore, reported sales and purchases made and expenses incurred in non-U.S. currencies by our international businesses, when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future sales and operating results. We are subject to economic, political and other risks associated with our significant international business, which could adversely affect our financial results. We operate internationally primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries located in North and South America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Australia and Africa. Sales outside the United States were in excess of 66 percent of total sales in 2011. We expect that sales from international operations will continue to represent a growing portion of our sales. During 2011, approximately 15 percent of the Companys United States operations chemical and equipment purchases were from international suppliers. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers to our international operations are located outside the United States. Our sales and earnings could be adversely affected by a variety of factors resulting from our international operations, including, without limitation,: future fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; - 16 - Table of Contents complex regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements; trade protection measures, tariffs, royalties or taxes, and import or export licensing requirements or restrictions; multiple jurisdictions and differing tax laws, as well as changes in those laws; restrictions on our ability to repatriate investments and earnings from foreign operations; changes in the political or economic conditions in a country or region, particularly in developing or emerging markets; difficulty in staffing and managing worldwide operations; changes in shipping costs; and difficulties in collecting on accounts receivable. If any of these risks materialize, we could face the loss of sales, and/or substantial increases in costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may become involved in disputes regarding our intellectual property rights, which could result in prohibition of the use of certain technology in current or planned products, exposure of the business to significant liability and diversion of managements focus. We and our major competitors spend substantial time and resources developing and patenting new and improved products and technologies. Many of our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. Further, while we strive to respect others intellectual property, we may not have identified each and every instance where our products may infringe or utilize intellectual property rights held by others. Thus, we cannot provide assurance that others will not claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe those rights. We have been and may in the future be sued by third parties alleging that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could: be expensive; take significant time and divert managements focus from other business concerns; if successful, require us to stop the infringing activity, redesign our product or process or license the intellectual property in question, thereby resulting in delays and loss or deferral of sales; require us to pay substantial damage awards; and/or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain a royalty agreement or license on acceptable terms, or are unable to redesign our products or process to avoid conflicts with any third party patent, we may be unable to offer some of our products, which could result in reduced sales. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our results of operations. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our ability to protect and maintain proprietary rights to our intellectual property, particularly trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We generally enter into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for or adequate remedies to protect the Companys technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of information. Efforts to address any - 17 - Table of Contents infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar services, potentially resulting in the loss of one or more competitive advantages and decreased sales. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws afford us only limited protection. Others may attempt to copy or reengineer aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our products or to deter others from developing similar products. Further, monitoring the unauthorized use of our products and other proprietary rights is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could significantly harm our results of operations and reputation. We may incur impairment charges on our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives that would reduce our earnings. We are subject to FASB ASC Topic 350 which requires that goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite life be tested at least annually for impairment. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives must also be tested for impairment between the annual tests if a triggering event occurs that would likely reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2011, goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives represented approximately 15 percent of our total assets. If we determine that there has been an impairment, our financial results for the relevant period would be reduced by the amount of the impairment, net of tax effects, if any. The Company is not at risk of failing the impairment test as of December 31, 2011. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. The following table shows the location, land area, building area and function of the properties the Company owns or leases at December 31, 2011. Country Land Area (Acres) Building Area (Sq. Ft) (in thousands) Function United States 922 4,630 admin., production, warehousing, distrib. Germany 46 647 admin., production, warehousing, distrib. Switzerland 13 436 admin., production, warehousing, distrib. United Kingdom 251 428 admin., production, warehousing, distrib. Israel 6 131 admin., production, warehousing, distrib. All Other 72 1,191 admin., production, warehousing, distrib. Total 1,310 7,463 Percent Owned Property 84% Percent Leased Property 16% The Company considers the properties to be well maintained, in sound condition and repair and adequate for its present needs. These properties generally have sufficient capacity for the Companys existing needs and near-term growth. The Company expects to continue to expand its production, warehousing and distribution capabilities in selected markets and to make capital investments in plants to support specific business opportunities. - 18 - Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings. See Note 11Contingent Liabilities and Commitments in Item 8 of Part II this Report. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. - 19 - Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Common Stock Data (per share) (Unaudited): 2011 Price Range 2010 Price Range Dividends High Low High Low 2011 2010 First Quarter $ 67.92 $ 58.87 $ 55.33 $ 46.50 $ 0.18 $ 0.16 Second Quarter 73.60 62.77 61.00 49.52 0.18 0.16 Third Quarter 76.16 56.18 61.50 48.80 0.18 0.16 Fourth Quarter 69.92 58.60 67.76 58.93 0.18 0.16 The Companys common stock is traded in the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (NASDAQ) Global Select Market. The trading symbol is SIAL. On January 31, 2012, there were 612 shareholders of record of the Companys common stock. The Company expects to continue its policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends. Future dividends are dependent on future earnings, capital requirements and the Companys financial condition and are declared in the sole discretion of the Companys Board of Directors. See Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Mattersof Part III of this Report for information concerning securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. The following table presents share repurchases by the Company and any affiliated purchasers for the year ended December 31, 2011 (in millions except per share amounts): Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs Total at Dec. 31, 2010 95.5 4.5 Jan. 1, 2011 Jan. 31, 2011 95.5 4.5 Feb. 1, 2011 Feb. 28, 2011 0.3 $ 62.95 95.8 4.2 Mar. 1, 2011 Mar. 31, 2011 95.8 4.2 Apr. 1, 2011 Apr. 30, 2011 95.8 4.2 May 1, 2011 May 31, 2011 95.8 4.2 Jun. 1, 2011 Jun. 30, 2011 95.8 4.2 Jul. 1, 2011 Jul. 31, 2011 95.8 4.2 Aug. 1, 2011 Aug. 31, 2011 1.5 61.80 97.3 2.7 Sep. 1, 2011 Sep. 30, 2011 0.3 62.42 97.6 2.4 Oct. 1, 2011 Oct. 31, 2011 97.6 2.4 Nov. 1, 2011 Nov. 30, 2011 97.6 12.4 Dec. 1, 2011 Dec. 31, 2011 97.6 12.4 Total at Dec. 31, 2011 2.1 $ 62.07 97.6 12.4 The timing and number of shares purchased, if any, will depend on market conditions and other factors. On November 8, 2011 the Companys Board of Directors extended the authorization to repurchase the remaining 2.4 million shares under the existing share repurchase program that was previously approved on October 20, 2008, and authorized the repurchase of an additional 10 million shares over the next three years. This brings the total authorization to 110 million shares. - 20 - Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Annual Financial Data ($ In Millions, except per share data): The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Part II of this Report. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales $ 2,505 $ 2,271 $ 2,148 $ 2,201 $ 2,039 Net income 457 384 347 342 311 Per share: Net income Basic 3.78 3.17 2.84 2.70 2.38 Net income Diluted 3.72 3.12 2.80 2.65 2.34 Dividends 0.72 0.64 0.58 0.52 0.46 Cash dividends 86 78 71 66 60 Total assets 3,281 3,027 2,714 2,557 2,629 Long-term debt 300 300 100 200 207 Pension obligations Long term 93 64 51 53 20 Post-retirement medical benefit plans 50 46 43 40 37 - 21 - Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion And Analysis ($ In Millions, Except Per Share Data) The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Overview The Company is a leading Life Science and High Technology company. The Companys biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over 1.3 million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma-Aldrich operates in 40 countries and has 8,300 employees providing customer focused service worldwide. The Company has four business units featuring the Research units of Essentials, Specialties and Biotech and the Fine Chemicals unit, SAFC. The units are closely interrelated in their activities and share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, the e-commerce infrastructure, including the Companys website, purchasing and inventory control and share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety and compliance and information technology. Research Essentials, representing 19 percent of sales for 2011, provides customized, innovative solutions for our value conscious buyers. Research Specialties, representing 37 percent of sales for 2011, facilitates accelerated research by lab scientists through information and innovation in services and new products. Research Biotech, representing 15 percent of sales for 2011, provides innovative first-to-market products and technologies for the Life Science researcher. SAFC, representing 29 percent of sales for 2011, supports the manufacturing needs of commercial project managers through rapid delivery of custom products and services. The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non-profit organizations located in the United States and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, economic conditions and government research funding in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere do impact demand from our customers. Highlights of our consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2011, are as follows: Sales were $2,505, an increase of 10.3 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2011, which increased sales by 3.7 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively, sales increased organically by 4.9 percent year over year. Gross profit margin was 52.9 percent, up from 52.7 percent in 2010. Operating income margin was 25.8 percent, an increase of 150 basis points from 24.3 percent in 2010, due primarily to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, higher selling prices and volume and mix. Diluted income per share was $3.72, compared to $3.12, a 19.2 percent increase compared to last year. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $495, a decrease of $28 from last year. Total debt of $521 at December 31, 2011 declined $18 since December 31, 2010. - 22 - Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, U.S. GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Companys industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. With over 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Companys local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, acquisition impacts. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates, the result is the defined impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates or changes in FX. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur in 2012 to applicable exchange rates. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the years presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. Managements estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The Company regularly reviews inventories on hand and records a provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory, inventory not meeting quality standards and inventory subject to expiration. The provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory is based on current estimates of future product demand, market conditions and related management judgment. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the value of inventories. Long-Lived Assets. Long-lived assets, including intangibles with definite lives, are amortized over their expected useful lives. Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized against earnings. Goodwill is assessed annually for impairment. All long-lived assets are assessed whenever events and changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. If impairment is indicated, the asset value is written down to its fair market value. Any significant unanticipated changes in business or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the fair value of these assets and a potential associated impairment. The Company was not at risk of failing the impairment test as of December 31, 2011. Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits. The determination of the obligation and expense for pension and other post-retirement benefits is dependent on the Companys selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries to calculate such amounts. Those assumptions are described in Note 14Pension and Other Post-Retirement - 23 - Table of Contents Benefit Plans to the Companys consolidated financial statements in Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of Part II of this Report and include, among others, the discount rates, expected return on plan assets and rates of increase in compensation and health care costs. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and therefore, generally affect the recognized expense in such future periods. While the Company believes that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in the assumptions may materially affect the Companys pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations and the Companys future expense. A one percent increase or decrease in the discount rate assumption or the expected return on plan assets would not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Taxes. The Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. The Company regularly reviews its potential tax liabilities for tax years subject to audit. In managements opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all years presented. The provision for income taxes is based on pretax income reported in the consolidated statements of income and currently enacted tax rates for each jurisdiction. No provision has been made for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of the Companys international subsidiaries where the earnings are considered permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international operations. Recognition of U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of the international subsidiaries would be triggered by a management decision to repatriate those earnings, although there is no current intention or liquidity requirements to do so. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax benefits or liabilities attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates would be recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability and establishes a valuation allowance when it believes that such assets may not be recovered, taking into consideration historical operating results, expectations of future earnings, changes in its operations and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Results of Operations The following is a summary of our financial results (in millions, expect per share amounts): 2011 2010 2009 Net sales $ 2,505 $ 2,271 $ 2,148 Cost of products sold 1,181 1,075 1,058 Gross profit 1,324 1,196 1,090 Selling, general and administrative expenses 597 548 518 Research and development expenses 72 66 63 Restructuring costs 8 24 9 Impairment charge 7 Operating income 647 551 500 Interest, net 7 7 10 Income before income taxes 640 544 490 Provision for income taxes 183 160 143 Net income $ 457 $ 384 $ 347 Net income per shareDiluted $ 3.72 $ 3.12 $ 2.80 - 24 - Table of Contents Net Sales Sales were $2,505 in the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, up 10.3 percent from 2010. The effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased sales by $85 or 3.7 percent. Our recent acquisitions of Cerilliant Corporation, Resource Technology Corporation and Vetec Quimica Fina Ltda, acquired in December 2010, February 2011 and May 2011, respectively, contributed another $39 or 1.7 percent to this sales growth. Excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions, sales increased organically by $110 or 4.9 percent. Factors contributing to the organic growth included volume which added 3.4 percent and pricing which added 1.5 percent. Sales were $2,271 in the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, up 5.7 percent from 2009. The effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased sales by $10 or 0.4 percent. Excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, sales increased organically by $113 or 5.3 percent. Factors contributing to the organic growth included volume which added 4.8 percent and pricing which added 0.5 percent. The Company is organized in four business units featuring the Research units of Essentials, Specialties and Biotech and the Fine Chemicals unit, SAFC, to align the Company with the customers it serves. Reported sales growth, impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates (FX) and the organic sales changes by the Companys business units are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Change Impact of Changes in FX Increase due to Acquisitions Organic Growth Organic Growth % Research Essentials $ 478 $ 434 $ 44 $ 17 $ 9 $ 18 4.1 % Research Specialties 924 845 79 34 25 20 2.3 % Research Biotech 375 345 30 14 16 4.6 % Total Research 1,777 1,624 153 65 34 54 3.3 % SAFC 728 647 81 20 5 56 8.6 % Total $ 2,505 $ 2,271 $ 234 $ 85 $ 39 $ 110 4.9 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change Impact of Changes in FX Increase due to Acquisitions Organic Growth Organic Growth % Research Essentials $ 434 $ 425 $ 9 $ 2 $ $ 7 1.6 % Research Specialties 845 796 49 5 44 5.6 % Research Biotech 345 334 11 4 7 2.1 % Total Research 1,624 1,555 69 11 58 3.7 % SAFC 647 593 54 (1 ) 55 9.3 % Total $ 2,271 $ 2,148 $ 123 $ 10 $ $ 113 5.3 % 2011 Research Essentials total sales were $478 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $434 for 2010. Organic sales increased by $18 or 4.1 percent. The primary driver for the organic sales increase was higher volumes in the lab essentials product group across all geographic regions. Research Specialties total sales were $924 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $845 for 2010. Organic sales increased by $20 or 2.3 percent. The increase was concentrated primarily in our analytical, biochemistry and traditional chemistry products which increased $10, $4 and $3, respectively. All geographic regions experienced improved demand over the prior year. - 25 - Table of Contents Research Biotech total sales were $375 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $345 for 2010. Organic sales increased by $16 or 4.6 percent. The primary driver for the organic sales increase was higher volumes of our biomolecule products, which include antibodies, our functional genomics products, which include our Zinc Finger nucleotide products and cell and cell based assay products. Collectively, these product lines contributed $11 to the organic increases during 2011. SAFC total sales were $728 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $647 for 2010. Organic sales increased by $56 or 8.6 percent. The primary drivers for this increase were higher sales of industrial cell culture media of $22, growth in the sale of bulk chemical products for manufacturing in our supply solutions business of $18 and higher demand of materials and precursors for semi-conductor and light emitting diode applications in our Hitech business of $14. Our initiative to increase e-commerce sales continued to show progress. Web-based sales increased to 50 percent of total Research sales in 2011 from 48 percent in 2010. 2010 Research Essentials total sales were $434 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $425 for 2009. Organic sales increased by $7 or 1.6 percent. The primary driver for the organic sales increase was higher volume in the lab essentials product group outside of the U.S. During 2009 there was a worldwide shortage of a certain solvent which drove higher prices and volumes during the first half of the year, which did not recur in 2010. Research Specialties total sales were $845 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $796 for 2009. Organic sales increased by $44 or 5.6 percent. The increase was largely driven by higher demand for our analytical chemistry products amounting to $17 of the organic increase and higher demand for our traditional chemistry and biochemistry products increasing by $14 and $8, respectively as compared to the prior year. All geographic regions experienced improved demand over the prior year. Research Biotech total sales were $345 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $334 for 2009. Organic sales increased by $7 or 2.1 percent. This increase was largely driven by higher demand for our biomolecule and transgenic products amounting to $6 and $3, respectively, compared to 2009. SAFC total sales were $647 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $593 for 2009. Excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, sales increased by $55 or 9.3 percent. The primary drivers for this increase were strong growth of materials and precursors for semi-conductor and light emitting diode applications in our Hitech business which added $28, growth in our industrial cell culture media business for biological drugs which added $18 and growth in the sale of bulk chemical products for manufacturing in our supply solutions business which added $18. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $20 due to the non-repeating nature of the H1N1 vaccine adjuvant business in 2009. Our initiative to increase e-commerce sales continued to show progress. Web-based sales increased to 48 percent of total Research sales in 2010 from 45 percent in 2009. 2012 Outlook The economic and research funding uncertainties in the U.S. and Europe are creating a cautious climate with some of our customers. With our continued focus on the faster growth segments in analytical chemistry, biology and material science, coupled with our continued emphasis on growth opportunities in fine chemicals, emerging markets and e-commerce, we remain cautiously optimistic we can achieve mid single digit percentage sales growth in 2012. On January 31, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of BioReliance Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of global biopharmaceutical testing services. - 26 - Table of Contents Gross Profit and Expenses Gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, restructuring cost, impairment cost and operating income, all expressed as a percentage of sales, and the effective tax rate (income tax expense expressed as a percentage of income before income taxes) for the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Gross profit margin 52.9 % 52.7 % 50.7 % Selling, general & administrative expenses 23.8 % 24.1 % 24.1 % Research and development expenses 3.0 % 3.0 % 2.9 % Restructuring costs 0.3 % 1.0 % 0.4 % Impairment cost 0.3 % Operating income 25.8 % 24.3 % 23.3 % Effective tax rate 28.6 % 29.4 % 29.2 % Cost of products sold and gross profit Cost of products sold represents materials, labor, distribution and overhead costs associated with the Companys products, services and facilities. Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1,181 compared to $1,075 in 2010, an increase of $106 or 9.9 percent. For the year ended December 31, 2011, when compared to the prior year, the increase in cost of sales primarily related to higher material, manufacturing and distribution expenses resulting from higher sales volume and mix of $46, changes in foreign currency exchange rates which increased cost of sales by $38 and acquisitions which added $22 to cost of sales. Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1,075 compared to $1,058 in 2009, an increase of $17 or 1.6 percent. For the year ended December 31, 2010, when compared to the prior year, changes in foreign currency exchange rates lowered cost of sales by $11, but these decreases were more than fully offset by increases in the cost of sales due primarily to higher material, manufacturing and distribution expenses resulting from higher sales volumes and product mix. Total cost of products sold were 47.1 percent of sales for year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 47.3 percent for the prior year, producing a gross profit as a percentage of sales (Gross Profit Margin) of 52.9 percent and 52.7 percent, respectively. Total cost of sales were 47.3 percent of sales for year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 49.3 percent for the prior year, producing a Gross Profit Margin of 52.7 percent and 50.7 percent, respectively. The following table reflects the significant contributing factors to the net change in Gross Profit Margin for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively: Contributing Factors 2011 2010 Gross profit marginend of profit previous year 52.7 % 50.7 % Increases (decreases) to gross profit margin: Sales volume/Product mix/Other (0.4 )% 1.8 % Favorable pricing 0.7 % 0.2 % Acquisitions (0.1 )% Gross profit marginend of year 52.9 % 52.7 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses 2011 2010 2009 SG&A $ 597 $ 548 $ 518 Percentage of Sales 23.8 % 24.1 % 24.1 % - 27 - Table of Contents The increase in SG&A expenses of $49 during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010 is due primarily to changes in foreign currency exchange rates which increased SG&A by $17, higher SG&A resulting from the new acquisitions which added $12 and higher legal and professional services of $5. The increase in SG&A expenses of $30 during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009 is due primarily to higher incentive compensation costs of $27 compared to 2010 as a result of achievement of certain financial metrics and higher payroll costs. Research and development (R&D) expenses 2011 2010 2009 R&D $ 72 $ 66 $ 63 Percentage of Sales 3.0 % 3.0 % 2.9 % As a percentage of sales research and development expenses were largely unchanged for each of the three years shown above. Research and development expenses relate primarily to efforts to add new manufactured products, create and develop new technologies and enhance manufacturing processes. Self-manufactured products currently account for approximately 60 percent of total sales. Restructuring costs In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company committed to a restructuring plan that included exit activities at five manufacturing sites in the U.S. and Europe. As of September 30, 2011, all exit activities were substantially complete and all restructuring expenses had been incurred. These exit activities impacted approximately 240 employees and were intended to reduce the Companys fixed cost structure and better align its global manufacturing and distribution footprint. Additionally, in 2009 the Company initiated a voluntary retirement program that was accepted by 87 eligible U.S. employees as part of its cost reduction and long-term profit enhancement initiatives. This action is complete. The Company also executed a selected reduction in workforce of approximately 130 people during 2010. This action was completed at December 31, 2010. The following provides a summary of restructuring costs by period indicated. As each of the restructuring programs is substantially complete as of December 31, 2011, no additional restructuring costs related to these programs are expected with respect to the above described plans. Employee Termination Benefits Other Restructuring Costs Total Years ended December 31, 2011 $ 6 $ 2 $ 8 2010 18 6 24 2009 5 4 9 As of December 31, 2011 Cumulative restructuring costs for these programs $ 29 $ 12 $ 41 Employee termination benefits primarily include pension and post-retirement benefit plan charges related to the voluntary retirement program, as well as payments to employees impacted by facility exit and other cost reduction activities. Other restructuring costs relate mainly to changes in the expected useful life of long-lived assets impacted by these restructuring activities. - 28 - Table of Contents Impairment Charge No impairment cost was incurred in 2011. An impairment charge of $7 was recorded in 2010 to reflect an other-than-temporary impairment of a long-term investment as a result of the net realizable value being less than the carrying cost. Interest, net Net interest expense was $7, $7 and $10 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net interest expense in 2011 was unchanged from 2010 expense. Lower interest rates and lower average debt levels in 2010 reduced net interest expense from 2009. Income Taxes Income taxes, which include federal, state and international taxes were 28.6 percent, 29.4 percent and 29.2 percent of pretax income in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The lower effective tax rate for the full year of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 is primarily due to benefits derived from the expiration of certain tax audit periods and the associated reversal of the related uncertain tax position. The higher effective tax rate for the full year of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 is primarily due to an increase of certain tax contingencies from non-recurring audit activity benefits realized in 2009 and was partially offset by a higher U.S. manufacturing deduction in 2010. Our effective tax rate for 2012 is expected to be approximately 3031 percent. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, are summarized in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 495 $ 523 $ 516 Investing activities (191 ) (182 ) (160 ) Financing activities (200 ) (161 ) (250 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $495 decreased $28 or 5 percent in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, the Company used $63 of cash to increase its inventory to enhance customer service levels. Accounts receivable levels also increased by $35 as a result of higher sales levels and timing of customer payments, The cash uses were partially offset by higher net income of $73. Net cash provided by operating activities of $523 increased $7 or 1 percent in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase relates primarily to higher net income partially offset by lower cash provided from working capital, particularly inventory as the substantial inventory reductions realized in 2009 as a result of a focused effort to reduce lead times and safety stock did not repeat in 2010. Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities of $191 in 2011 increased $9 from 2010 primarily due to increased cash used to purchase short-term investments of $22, which was partially offset by additional proceeds from the sale of short-term investments of $14. - 29 - Table of Contents Cash used for investing activities of $182 in 2010 increased $22 from 2009 primarily due to increased cash used for acquisitions of businesses. In 2010, the Company used cash of $80 for acquisitions of businesses compared to $6 in 2009. No single acquisition during the year was significant to the Companys results of operations. This increase in cash used for acquisitions was partially offset by a decrease in capital spending, which was $99 in 2010 compared to $120 in 2009 as the Company substantially completed the expansion of its biotech fermentation facility in Israel and the addition of manufacturing capacity for viral products and active pharmaceutical ingredients in the U.S., and a decrease in purchases of technology which amounted to zero in 2010 compared to $19 in 2009. For 2012, capital spending is expected to be approximately $125. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $200 in 2011. Other senior notes of $100 matured and were repaid in December 2011. Additionally, the Company used $86 to pay dividends and used $134 for its share buy back program. The Company received $81 through the issuance of short-term debt, and also received $34 of cash from the exercise of stock options associated with its long-term incentive compensation program. Cash used in financing activities was $161 in 2010. The Company issued $300 10-year fixed rate senior notes, of which, the Company received $298 after $2 of expenses. Other senior notes of $100 matured and were repaid in September 2010. Additionally, the Company paid back $238 of short-term debt, used $78 to pay dividends and used $99 for its share buy back program. The Company also received $45 of cash from the exercise of stock options associated with its long-term incentive compensation program. Share Repurchases On November 8, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors extended the authorization to repurchase the remaining 2.4 million shares under the existing share repurchase program that was previously approved on October 20, 2008, and authorized the repurchase of an additional 10 million shares. These authorizations expire on November 8, 2014. This brings the total authorization to 110 million shares. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had repurchased a total of 98 million shares and 96 million shares, respectively. There were 121 million shares outstanding as of December 31, 2011. The Company expects to continue to offset the dilutive impact of issuing share based incentive compensation with future share repurchases. Further, the Company may repurchase additional shares, but the timing and amount will depend on market conditions and other factors. Liquidity and Risk Management Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company might be unable to meet potential cash outflows promptly and cost effectively. Factors that could cause such risk to arise include the disruption to the securities markets, downgrades in the Companys credit rating or the unavailability of funds. In addition to the Companys cash flows from operations, the Company utilizes commercial paper, short-term multi-currency debt and long-term debt programs as funding sources. The Company maintains committed bank lines of credit to support its commercial paper borrowings and local bank lines of credit to support its international operations. Downgrades in the Companys credit rating or other limitations on the ability to access short-term financing, including the ability to refinance short-term debt as it becomes due, would increase interest costs and adversely affect profitability. The Company has considered the potential impact of recent trends in the global economic environment on its liquidity and overall financial condition, particularly with respect to availability of and the Companys access to short-term credit, including the market for commercial paper. Based on discussions held with the Companys - 30 - Table of Contents lenders, management does not believe that a significant risk exists of commercial paper or other credit becoming unavailable within the next twelve months. Management believes that the Companys financial condition is such that internal and external resources are sufficient and available to satisfy the Companys requirements for debt service, capital expenditures, selective acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases, funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plan obligations and working capital presently and for the next twelve months. It is managements view that cash provided by operating activities, along with its available credit facilities is sufficient to fund the operations of the business for the next twelve months. The Company has a $450 five-year revolving credit facility with a U.S. syndicate of banks that supports the Companys commercial paper program. The facility matures on December 11, 2012. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had $221 and $139 outstanding under this facility through its commercial paper program. The Company also has a $200 seven-year multi-currency European revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks maturing in March 2014. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under this facility. Sigma-Aldrich Korea Limited has a short-term credit facility denominated in Korean Won with a total commitment of 20 billion Korean Won ($17 U.S. Dollars) expiring March 7, 2012. No borrowings were outstanding at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Sigma-Aldrich Japan has two credit facilities denominated in Japanese Yen having a total commitment of 2 billion Japanese Yen ($26 U.S. Dollars) with one facility due April, 28, 2012 and the other representing a line of credit with no expiration. No borrowings were outstanding at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The Company has other short-term credit facilities denominated in foreign currencies in addition to those mentioned above. Although there were no borrowings under the facilities at December 31, 2011, the facilities are available to the Company with total commitments converted into U.S. Dollars of $3 on December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Long-term debt including current maturities at December 31, 2011 was $300 compared to $400 in 2010. The decrease in long term debt is due to the repayment of $100 of senior notes on December 5, 2011. The remaining liability consists of a 3.375 percent fixed rate Senior Note due November 1, 2020. Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was 19.2 percent and 21.4 percent at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Total debt at December 31, 2011 was $521 compared to $539 at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has sufficient net worth to allow for borrowing the full capacity under each facility agreement without any restriction related to compliance with the respective debt covenants. For a description of the Companys material debt covenants, see Note 5Notes Payable and Note 6Long Term Debt to the Companys consolidated financial statements in Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of Part II of this Report. At December 31, 2011, substantially all of the Companys total cash and cash equivalents were held by its international subsidiaries. The majority of these foreign cash balances are associated with earnings which the Company has asserted are permanently reinvested and which the Company plans to use to support its operations and continued growth plans outside of the U.S. The Company has sufficient additional liquidity in the U.S. to fund its operations and capital plans and, accordingly, has no immediate need to repatriate any of its cash held by international subsidiaries. The Company may, however, periodically make distributions from its international subsidiaries to its U.S. parent, but such distributions will generally occur only if they can be made in tax efficient manner. - 31 - Table of Contents On October 5, 2009, the Company announced a major expansion of its existing license agreement with Sangamo BioSciences, Inc. (Sangamo) to include the exclusive rights to develop and distribute zinc finger DNA binding protein (ZFP)-modified cell lines for commercial production of protein pharmaceuticals and ZFP-engineered transgenic animals for livestock, companion animals and therapeutic protein production. Under this agreement, the Company made initial payments of $20 to Sangamo, consisting of an upfront license payment of $15 and $5 for the purchase of shares of Sangamo common stock. Sangamo is eligible to earn additional contingent commercial license fees of up to $5 based on certain conditions and additional contingent milestone payments of up to $25 based on cumulative sales. No material amounts were paid to Sangamo under this agreement in either 2011 or 2010. On January 31, 2012, the Company completed its acquisition of BioReliance Holdings, Inc. (BioReliance), a leading provider of global biopharmaceutical testing services, from Avista Capital Partners. BioReliances sales were $126 and $110 in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The purchase price of $350, net of cash acquired and subject to normal post-closing adjustments, was paid in cash upon completion of the acquisition on January 31, 2012, and was funded with a combination of existing cash and credit facilities. Other Matters The Company is involved in legal proceedings incidental to its business, as described below: Insurance and Other Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits and claims related to the normal conduct of its business, including lawsuits and claims related to product liability and personal injury matters. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. The Company has self-insured retention limits and has obtained insurance to provide coverage above the self-insured limits for product liability and personal injury claims, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. Reserves have been provided to cover expected payments for these self-insured amounts at December 31, 2011. A class action complaint was filed against a subsidiary of the Company in the Montgomery County, Ohio Court of Common Pleas related to a 2003 explosion at the Companys facility in Miamisburg, Ohio. The case was partially certified as a class action in 2005, and proceedings, including two jury trials and an appeal to the Ohio Supreme Court, continued into 2011. The parties reached a settlement of the entire case in an amount which is not material to the Companys consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The settlement agreement was approved by the Court of Common Pleas of Montgomery County in Ohio on October 28, 2011. There have been no appeals of the decision and payment has been made to the claims administrator which has closed out this matter. At December 31, 2011, there were no other known contingent liabilities that management believes are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity and there were no material commitments outside of the normal course of business. Material commitments in the normal course of business include notes payable, long-term debt, lease commitments and pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations which are disclosed in Note 5Notes Payable, Note 6Long-Term Debt, Note 8Lease Commitments and Note 14 Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans, respectively, to the Companys consolidated financial statements in Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of Part II of this Report. - 32 - Table of Contents Aggregate Contractual Obligations The following table presents contractual obligations of the Company at December 31, 2011: Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 13 years 35 years More than 5 years Long-term debt $ 300 $ $ $ $ 300 Interest payments related to long-term debt 89 10 20 20 39 Operating lease obligations 112 29 37 24 22 Purchase obligations (1) 180 62 43 35 40 Total $ 681 $ 101 $ 100 $ 79 $ 401 (1) Purchase obligations include open purchase orders, long-term service and supply agreements and other contractual obligations. See Note 6Long-Term Debt and Note 8 - Lease Commitments to the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of Part II of this Report for additional disclosures related to long-term debt and lease commitments, respectively. See Note 14Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans to the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of Part II of this Report for obligations with respect to its pension and post-retirement medical benefit plans. The above table excludes $33 of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions. See Note 10Income Taxes to the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of Part II of this Report for detail on this obligation.