Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report) and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on February 25, 2021 (the Annual Report), including the consolidated financial statements and related notes included therein. SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. All statements included in this Quarterly Report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. This includes statements regarding our strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues and losses, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events or place undue reliance thereon. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report primarily on our current expectations and projections, in light of currently available information, about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results or those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include the following: the scope, duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, including any recurrence, as well as the timing of the economic recovery following the pandemic and its effect on the global economy and on our business; our ability to achieve and sustain profitability; our ability to sustain historical growth rates; our ability to attract and retain customers and to deepen our relationships with existing customers; an increased focus in our business from selling licenses to selling subscriptions; breaches in our security, cyber-attacks or other cyber-risks; interruptions with the delivery of our software as a service ("SaaS") solutions or third-party cloud-based systems that we use in our operations; our ability to compete successfully against current and future competitors; the length and unpredictable nature of our sales cycle; delayed effects on our operating results from ratably recognizing some of our revenue; fluctuations in our quarterly results; our ability to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners; the increasing complexity of our operations; real or perceived errors, failures or disruptions in our platform or solutions; our ability to adapt and respond to rapidly changing technology, industry standards, regulations or customer needs, requirements or preferences; our ability to comply with our privacy policy or related legal or regulatory requirements; the impact of various tax laws and regulations, including our failure to comply therewith; our ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate companies and assets; our ability to maintain and enhance our brand or reputation as an industry leader; and the ability of our platform and solutions to effectively interoperate with our customers existing or future IT infrastructures. More information on these risks and other potential factors that could affect our financial results is included in our other filings with the SEC, including in the Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections of the Annual Report and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A in subsequent quarterly reports. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report relate only to events as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Quarterly Report or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. 22 Table of Contents Business Overview SailPoint Technologies Holdings, Inc. (we, our, the Company or SailPoint) is the leading provider of enterprise identity security solutions. Our identity security solutions provide organizations with critical visibility into who currently has access to which resources, who should have access to those resources and how that access is being used. We offer both SaaS and on-premise software solutions, which provide organizations with the intelligence required to empower users and govern their access to systems, applications and data across hybrid IT environments, spanning on-premises, cloud and mobile applications and file storage platforms. We help customers enable their businesses with more agile and innovative IT, streamline delivery of access to their businesses, enhance their security posture and better meet compliance and regulatory requirements. Our customers include many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations, including commercial enterprises, financial institutions and governments. Our set of identity security solutions currently consists of: IdentityNow : our cloud-based, multi-tenant identity security platform, which provides customers with a set of fully integrated services for compliance, provisioning and password management for applications and data hosted on-premises or in the cloud; IdentityIQ : our on-premises identity security solution, which can be hosted in the public cloud or deployed in a customers data center, provides large, complex enterprise customers a unified and highly configurable identity security solution; and SailPoint Identity Services: delivered as multi-tenant SaaS subscription services that can be utilized in conjunction with IdentityNow and IdentityIQ and currently consisting of: Access Insights : collects a wealth of identity information and turns that information into actionable insights and provides business-oriented dashboards and reports to track the effectiveness of your identity program; Recommendation Engine : uses artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), peer group analysis, identity attributes and access activity to help you decide whether access should be granted or removed; Access Modeling : uses AI and ML to suggest roles based on similar access between users and gives you insights to confirm the correct access for each role; and Cloud Access Management : uses AI and ML to automatically learn, monitor and secure access to cloud infrastructure. Our solutions address the complex needs of global enterprises and mid-market organizations. Our success is principally dependent on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Rising security threats and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy and internal IT controls create new opportunities for our industry and require us to adapt our solutions to be successful. Maintaining our historical growth rates is also challenging because our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to drive new customer growth within existing geographic markets, further penetrate our existing customer base, continue to invest in our platform, leverage and expand our network of partners, expand market and product investment across existing vertical markets, and continuing to expand our global presence, while competing against much larger companies with more recognizable brands and financial resources. Although we seek to grow rapidly, we also focus on operating leverage and efficiency while continuing to invest in our platform to deliver innovative solutions to our customers. We believe enterprises are increasingly embracing the cloud to house their critical security infrastructure. As a result, a growing number of enterprises are changing their approach to identity security and now prefer to use a SaaS solution rather than purchase software outright and install it in their own infrastructure. This industry shift aligns well with our current product strategy. Our product strategy is to (1) accelerate innovation within our core identity security SaaS offerings, (2) deliver continued innovation as we execute against our vision for SailPoint identity security, and (3) ensure that as we deliver these new innovations, they work in concert with our SaaS offerings in addition to our on-premises offerings. We believe that continued growth of SaaS, term-based license and maintenance and support revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Nevertheless, our revenue and our gross margins vary depending on the type of solution we sell. As a result, a shift in the sales mix of our solutions could affect our performance relative to historical results. 23 Table of Contents IdentityNow and our SailPoint Identity Services are provided in exchange for a subscription fee and offer customers access to these solutions and infrastructure support for the duration of their subscription agreement. Our standard subscription agreement for our SaaS offerings has a duration of three years. For our IdentityIQ solutions, our customers either purchase a perpetual software license, which includes one year of maintenance and support, or a term license, sold as bundled arrangements that include the rights to a term license and maintenance and support typically for a three-year term. Accordingly, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation. Our maintenance provides software maintenance as well as access to our technical support services during the maintenance term. After the initial maintenance period, customers with perpetual licenses may renew their maintenance and support agreement for an additional fee. Pricing for each of our solutions is dependent on the number of digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners, software bots and other human and non-human users that the customer is entitled to govern with the solution. We also package and price our IdentityNow and IdentityIQ solutions into modules. Each module has unique functionalities, and our customers are able to purchase one or more modules, depending on their needs. We also offer advanced integration modules for key applications and systems which can be purchased in addition to our base solution modules. They are also priced based on the total number of identities, as are our SailPoint Identity Services. Thus, our revenue from any customer is generally determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules purchased by the customer for our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions and which, if any, of the SailPoint Identity Services that the customer purchases. Our revenue mix is changing as demand for our products and services is shifting from sales of perpetual licenses to sales of term licenses and subscriptions, and we expect this demand shift to continue, particularly as we continue our strategy to shift the sales mix of our solutions towards our SaaS offerings. For customers that still wish to purchase and operate non-SaaS software, we are increasingly selling our software through subscription-based term licenses, rather than through perpetual licenses. Over time, we expect that sales to new customers will be exclusively comprised of term licenses and subscriptions. Our transition to a subscription model has impacted, and it will continue to impact, the timing of our recognition of revenue as an increasing percentage of our sales become recognized ratably, as well as impact our operating margins as subscription revenue becomes a larger percentage of our sales. Our shift to a subscription model has fluctuated between periods, and our ability to predict our revenue and margins in any particular period has been, and may continue to be, limited. In addition to our solutions, we offer professional services to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform a significant majority of all initial and follow-on implementation work for our customers. Most of our consulting services are priced on a time-and-materials basis; our training services are provided through multiple pricing models, including on a per-person basis for instructor led courses and a flat-rate basis for our e-learning courses. As part of our growth strategy, in the first quarter of 2021 we acquired Intello Inc. (Intello), an early-stage SaaS management company that helps organizations to discover, manage, and secure SaaS applications, and ERP Maestro, Inc., ("ERP Maestro"), an early-stage SaaS governance, risk and compliance solution that provides separation-of-duty controls monitoring, enabling customers to manage their risk by automating access controls for business applications with complex security concepts. See Note 4 Business Combinations in our notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information. See Key Factors Affecting Our Performance within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report for information regarding the key factors affecting our performance. Impact of COVID-19 In light of the ongoing spread of COVID-19 in the United States and abroad, including the emergence of new variants of the coronavirus, government and public health authorities continue to recommend social distancing and impose various quarantine and isolation measures on portions of the population, including measures directed at businesses. While intended to protect human life, these restrictions have had and are expected to continue to have serious adverse impacts on domestic and foreign economies of uncertain duration. We have made certain adjustments to our operations as we continue to provide our offerings to new and existing customers in response to these measures. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we shifted all customer events to virtual-only experiences beginning in early 2020 and expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future, and we have transitioned to providing consulting services virtually as well. 24 Table of Contents While we believe that the pandemic has not had an immediate material adverse impact on our financial performance, our business may yet be negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as the duration of the pandemic and the scope of its effects ultimately remain unknown. For example, the conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may materially adversely affect the rate of IT spending by our current and prospective customers, including our customers ability or willingness to purchase our offerings, delay prospective customers purchasing decisions, delay the provisioning of our offerings, or cause customers to fail to make timely payments. We have seen an immaterial number of customer requests, and may continue to see similar requests, to lengthen payment terms or reduce the value or duration of subscription contracts, but this has not resulted in a material adverse impact on our renewal rates. While we have not been able to provide on-site consulting services to our customers during the pandemic due to local and regional restrictions, this has not resulted in any meaningful adverse impact on our ability to deliver such services because a significant portion of our consulting services have historically been provided remotely and most on-site projects transitioned to a remote delivery model. We continue to monitor the global impact of the pandemic on our customers and our business, especially as certain parts of the world experience surges in COVID-19 cases and particularly devastating effects from the pandemic, as is currently the case in India. Notwithstanding the potential and actual adverse impacts described above, as the pandemic has caused more of our customers to shift to a virtual workforce, we believe the value and scalability of our identity platform has become even more evident. We believe that the pandemic has not had a material adverse impact on our financial performance, and indeed, our revenue and customer base grew in 2020 and during the first quarter of 2021 as compared to the prior year period, and our travel expense continues to be lower than historical levels. We expect to see an increase in our travel and facilities expenses in 2021 and expect to continue to see healthy demand for our solutions. Nevertheless, we recognize that the uncertainty related to COVID-19 may result in increased volatility in the financial projections we use as the basis for estimates and assumptions used in our financial statements. The challenges posed by COVID-19 on our business and our customers businesses may evolve rapidly, and the speed, trajectory and strength of a recovery in general economic conditions remains highly uncertain and could be slowed or reversed by a number of factors, including the recent emergence of new strains of the coronavirus and the effectiveness of vaccines for the disease as they continue to be developed and distributed. Consequently, we will continue to evaluate our financial position and results of operations in light of future developments, particularly those relating to COVID-19. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A in the Annual Report for more information regarding the possible effects of COVID-19 on our business. Key Business Metric In addition to our GAAP financial information, we monitor the following key metric to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: As of March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (In thousands) Total annual recurring revenue $ 270,169 $ 188,548 Total Annual Recurring Revenue (Total ARR). We use Total ARR to monitor the growth of our recurring business as we continue to shift to a subscription model. Total ARR represents the annualized value of the active portion of SaaS, term-based license, maintenance and support contracts and other subscription services at the end of the reporting period. We calculate Total ARR by dividing the active contract value by the number of days in the active portion of the overall contract term and then multiplying by 365. Total ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as Total ARR is an operating metric and is not intended to be combined with or replace these items. Total ARR is not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal rates, and does not include revenue from perpetual licenses, training, professional services or other sources of revenue that are not deemed to be recurring in nature. Components of Results of Operations See Components of Results of Operations within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report for information regarding the components of our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products and services. Our quarterly sales are impacted by industry buying patterns. As a result, our sales have generally been highest in the fourth quarter of a calendar year and lowest in the first quarter. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (In thousands) Revenue Licenses $ 19,235 $ 21,004 Subscription 59,242 43,881 Services and other 12,285 10,557 Total revenue 90,762 75,442 Cost of revenue Licenses 1,247 1,080 Subscription (1) 11,304 8,476 Services and other (1) 11,799 9,006 Total cost of revenue 24,350 18,562 Gross profit 66,412 56,880 Operating expenses Research and development (1) 19,566 15,808 General and administrative (1) 11,267 9,514 Sales and marketing (1) 51,162 36,860 Total operating expenses 81,995 62,182 Loss from operations (15,583) (5,302) Other expense, net Interest income 200 1,272 Interest expense (789) (4,532) Other expense, net (1) (324) Total other expense, net (590) (3,584) Loss before income taxes (16,173) (8,886) Income tax benefit 882 469 Net loss $ (15,291) $ (8,417) 26 Table of Contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 662 $ 389 Cost of revenue - services and other 774 427 Research and development 2,220 1,501 General and administrative 2,062 1,002 Sales and marketing 4,355 2,872 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 10,073 $ 6,191 The following table sets forth the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Revenue Licenses 21 % 28 % Subscription 65 58 Services and other 14 14 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue Licenses 2 2 Subscription 12 11 Services and other 13 12 Total cost of revenue 27 25 Gross profit 73 75 Operating expenses Research and development 22 21 General and administrative 12 13 Sales and marketing 56 49 Total operating expenses 90 83 Loss from operations (17) (8) Other expense, net Interest income 2 Interest expense (1) (6) Other expense, net Total other expense, net (1) (4) Loss before income taxes (18) (12) Income tax benefit 1 1 Net loss (17) % (11) % 27 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue Licenses $ 19,235 $ 21,004 $ (1,769) (8) % Subscription SaaS 21,889 14,127 7,762 55 % Maintenance and support 35,474 29,157 6,317 22 % Other subscription services 1,879 597 1,282 215 % Total subscription 59,242 43,881 15,361 35 % Services and other 12,285 10,557 1,728 16 % Total revenue $ 90,762 $ 75,442 $ 15,320 20 % License Revenue. License revenue decreased by $1.8 million, or 8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily due to the timing of license deal closures and an increase in sales of term licenses and our SaaS offerings. Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue increased by $15.4 million, or 35%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily due to new sales of our SaaS offerings and an increase in ongoing maintenance and support revenue from our installed base. Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $1.7 million, or 16%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily a result of an increase in the number of customers using our consulting and training services. Geographic Regions . Our customers in the United States contributed the largest portion of our revenue in each reporting period ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 because we have more market momentum related to our larger and more established sales force, sales pipeline and brand recognition and awareness in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue is classified by the following major geographic areas: (i) United States, (ii) Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and (iii) rest of the world. We continue to invest in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. For the period ended March 31, 2021, revenue in the United States, EMEA and the rest of the world increased year-over-year. 28 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for each of the periods presented, our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentages of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 65,407 72 % $ 54,499 72 % EMEA (1) 15,456 17 % 13,728 18 % Rest of the World (1) 9,899 11 % 7,215 10 % Total revenue $ 90,762 100 % $ 75,442 100 % (1) No single country outside of the United States represented more than 10% of our revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit Licenses $ 17,988 $ 19,924 $ (1,936) (10) % Subscription 47,938 35,405 12,533 35 % Services and other 486 1,551 (1,065) (69) % Total gross profit $ 66,412 $ 56,880 $ 9,532 17 % Gross margin Licenses 94 % 95 % Subscription 81 % 81 % Services and other 4 % 15 % Total gross margin 73 % 75 % Licenses. License gross profit decreased by $1.9 million, or 10%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease in gross profit was the result of decreased license revenues. Gross margin remained materially consistent with prior period. Subscription. Subscription gross profit increased by $12.5 million, or 35%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase in gross profit was the result of growth in subscription revenue, as described above, partially offset by $2.8 million increase in cost of revenue compared to the prior period. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily driven by a $1.4 million increase in employee-based costs to support the growth of our SaaS offerings and ongoing maintenance and support our expanding installed customer base and a $1.6 million increase in cloud-based hosting costs to further support the scalability of our SaaS offerings. Services and Other . Services and other gross profit decreased by $1.1 million, or 69%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease in gross profit is primarily attributable to a $2.8 million increase in cost of revenue compared to the prior period, partially offset by the increased revenues due to customer growth. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily driven by a $1.1 million increase in partner costs due to higher partner utilization in our professional services and training organization and $1.7 million increase in employee-based costs to support an increasing number of customers. 29 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Operating expenses Research and development $ 19,566 $ 15,808 $ 3,758 24 % General and administrative 11,267 9,514 1,753 18 % Sales and marketing 51,162 36,860 14,302 39 % Total operating expenses $ 81,995 $ 62,182 $ 19,813 32 % Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased by $3.8 million, or 24%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. This increase was primarily driven by a $3.5 million increase in employee-based cost s due to an increase in headcount as we continue investing in additional products and capabilities . General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.8 million, or 18%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. This increase was primarily driven by professional services expense associated with our acquisitions of Intello and ERP Maestro. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $14.3 million, or 39%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. This increase was primarily driven by a $13.4 million increase in employee-based costs to support increased penetration into our existing customer base and expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets, as well as a $1.2 million increase in professional services expense relating primarily to staff augmentation and advisory services and a $0.9 million increase in software and hosting arrangement expenses , partially offset by a $1.8 million decrease in travel expense due to COVID-19 related limitations. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest Income Interest income decreased by $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. This decrease was primarily due to a significant decrease in interest rates earned on our money market accounts and a decrease in our cash balance. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 . This decrease was primarily due to $4.0 million less of amortization of debt discount related to the Notes (defined below) for the three months ended March 31, 2020 as a result of our adoption of ASU 2020-06, which eliminated the embedded conversion feature of the Notes. See Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information regarding the adoption of ASU 2020-06. Income Tax Benefit The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $0.9 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, leading to a net benefit of $0.4 million year-over-year. Provision for income taxes consists of U.S. federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. The Company is in an overall deferred tax asset position and has established a full valuation allowance for federal tax purposes as we do not expect our deferred tax liabilities to offset our deferred tax assets prior to expiration. We still maintain a full valuation allowance for our Israel tax position due its lack of taxable earnings for the foreseeable future. Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to the valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; unanticipated changes in tax rates; and differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation, foreign withholding taxes and research and development 30 Table of Contents ("R&D") credits. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax if such earnings are distributed to the U.S. With the exception of 2018 and 2019, we have incurred net operating losses for federal income tax purposes each year since our inception. Thus, our tax expense to date relates primarily to state as well as foreign income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 is 5.5% and 5.3%, respectively. The main drivers for the differences in the rates from the prior period to the current period are related to differences in forecasted pre-tax book income, the impact of stock compensation, an increase in foreign tax liabilities, acquisition impact, valuation allowance build and the effect of the R&D credits. We do not consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of India, to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. The global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions require the Company to include in its U.S. income tax return foreign subsidiary earnings in excess of an allowable return on the foreign subsidiarys tangible assets. The Company's GILTI tax calculations yields no GILTI tax liability. In India, we continue to invest and grow our research and development activities and have no plans to repatriate undistributed earnings held in India back to the U.S. parent company, and therefore consider earnings in India to be permanently reinvested. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, we had $416.2 million of cash and cash equivalents (of which $5.6 million is held in our foreign subsidiaries), $75.0 million of availability under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) and $6.0 million in our irrevocable, cash collateralized, unconditional standby letter of credit, issued in connection with our corporate headquarters lease. As of March 31, 2021, we had $130.2 million in net working capital, which we define as current assets less current liabilities, excluding deferred revenue. On March 11, 2019, SailPoint Technologies, Inc., as borrower, and certain of our other wholly owned subsidiaries entered into a credit agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement) which includes commitments for revolving credit loans of $75.0 million, with a $15.0 million letter of credit sublimit, which amount can be increased or decreased under specified circumstances and is subject to certain financial covenants. We had no outstanding revolving credit loan balance and we were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of March 31, 2021. See Note 8 Credit Agreement in our notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information regarding terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. In September 2019, we issued $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.125% convertible senior notes (the Notes) due 2024 in a private offering (the "Offering") to qualified institutional buyers. The net proceeds from the Offering were approximately $391.2 million, after deducting discounts and commissions and other fees and expenses payable by the Company in connection with the Offering. In conjunction with the issuance of the Notes, and exercise in full of the initial purchasers option, the Company used approximately $37.1 million of the net proceeds to pay the cost of the privately negotiated capped call transactions (the Capped Call Transactions) to reduce our exposure to additional cash payments above principal balances in the event of a cash conversion of the Notes. The Notes will mature on September 15, 2024, unless earlier redeemed, repurchased or converted. The Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 0.125% per year payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year. As of March 31, 2021, we had in aggregate $1.7 million in contractual interest payments, of which $0.5 million are due within the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2021, the Notes are convertible at the option of the holders. We have the ability to settle the Notes in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock at our own election. The impact of the Notes on our liquidity will depend on whether we elect to settle any conversion in shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, the Company settled conversion requests in the aggregate principal amount of $10.2 million of the Notes and terminated corresponding Capped Call Transactions. In connection with these transactions, we paid $10.2 million in cash to the converting holders for the principal amount, issued to the converting holders 181,629 shares of the Company's common stock with a fair value of approximately $10.1 million, and received 37,301 shares of the Company's common stock bearing a fair value of $1.9 million. As of the date of this filing, no other holders of the Notes have submitted requests for conversion. See Note 9 Convertible Senior Notes and Capped Call Transactions in our notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information regarding terms and conditions of the Notes and Capped Call Transactions. 31 Table of Contents The Company acquired two companies during the first quarter of 2021, resulting in $71.2 million of cash paid for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired. See Note 4 Business Combinations and Note 5 Goodwill and Intangible Assets in our notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for more information. Other than the acquisitions and settled conversion requests on our Notes, there have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the cash requirements from our contractual and other obligations, as disclosed in the Annual Report. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our Credit Agreement will be sufficient to support working capital, capital expenditure and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months and, based on our current expectations, for the foreseeable future thereafter. Our future capital requirements, both near-term and long-term, will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new solutions and product enhancements, the continuing market acceptance of our offerings and services, the costs of any future acquisitions in complementary businesses and technologies and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to our and our customers', vendors' and partners' businesses. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may borrow under our Credit Agreement or seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may enter into agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness or use cash resources. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through license fees, SaaS subscription fees, maintenance and support fees, consulting and training fees, borrowings under our prior credit agreement and, to a lesser degree, the sale of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and capital expenditures. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in key initiatives to drive the Companys long-term growth. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (12,166) $ 16,459 Net cash used in investing activities (72,052) (229) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (9,845) 1,162 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (94,063) $ 17,392 Cash Flows from Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $12.2 million, which consisted of net loss of $15.3 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $19.7 million and a net decrease of $16.6 million in our operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $4.8 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $4.3 million, and stock-based compensation of $10.1 million. The $16.6 million decrease in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily a result of an increase in deferred contract acquisition costs which has accelerated as subscription sales continue to grow, an increase in prepayments and other assets due to increases in contract assets related to multi-year deals, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities due to timing of cash disbursements, including commissions and bonuses, and a decrease in deferred revenue due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers. 32 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by operating activities was $16.5 million, which consisted of net loss of $8.4 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $18.2 million and a net increase of $6.7 million in our operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $4.6 million, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $4.4 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $3.0 million, and stock-based compensation of $6.2 million. The $6.7 million increase in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily a result of a decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers and a decrease in prepayments and other assets, partially offset by an increase in deferred contract acquisition costs, a decrease in accounts payable due to timing of cash disbursements, a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities due primarily to payment of commissions and bonuses, a decrease in income taxes payable, and a decrease in deferred revenue due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $72.1 million, consisting primarily of $71.2 million of cash paid for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and $0.8 million for purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash used in investing activities was $0.2 million, consisting primarily of purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in financing activities was $9.8 million, consisting of $10.2 million of payments upon the partial conversion of the Notes, $1.3 million in vesting of restricted stock units, primarily related to tax payments funded in the form of net issuances for certain executive officers, partially offset by $1.6 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $1.2 million, consisting of $1.3 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.2 million in vesting of restricted stock units, primarily related to tax payments funded in the form of net issuances for certain executive officers. Critical Accounting Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies associated with fair value allocation of multiple performance obligations in revenue recognition, the expected period of benefit of deferred contract acquisition costs, income taxes, and the valuation, impairment and useful lives of long-lived assets and goodwill arising from business combinations are the most significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Therefore, these are considered to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See Critical Accounting Estimates within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report for a full discussion regarding the estimation, uncertainty and impact of the Company's critical accounting estimates has had, or is reasonably likely to have, on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements With the exception ASU 2020-06 adoption, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as compared to the critical accounting policies disclosed in the Annual Report; see Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this 33 Table of Contents Quarterly Report for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.