Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, capitalized internal-use software costs, income taxes, other non-income taxes, business combinations and valuation of goodwill and purchased intangible assets and stock-based compensation. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices, may harm our operating results. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could harm our operating results or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, in May 2014 the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), for which certain elements may impact our accounting for revenue and costs incurred to acquire contracts. We will be required to implement this guidance for our annual reporting period beginning after December 15, 2018, unless we are no longer an emerging growth company on December 31, 2018. Application of Topic 606 may significantly impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition, such as recognizing revenue from existing contracts in periods other than when historically reported under existing GAAP or the revenue recognized under existing GAAP could be eliminated as part of the effect of adoption. Further, adoption of Topic 606 could result in changes to the periods when revenue is recognized in the future compared with managements current expectations under existing GAAP. In addition, Topic 606 may significantly change the timing of when expense recognition will occur related to costs to obtain and fulfill customer contracts. While the adoption of Topic 606 does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, the adoption of Topic 606 could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 34 Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability for past sales. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to collect additional or past sales tax could adversely affect our business. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our platform in various jurisdictions is unclear. It is possible that we could face sales tax audits and that our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as state tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional amounts as taxes from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We could also be subject to audits in states and international jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for sales taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We file sales tax returns in certain states within the United States as required by law and certain customer contracts for a portion of the products that we provide. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states and many of such states do not apply sales or similar taxes to the vast majority of the products that we provide. However, one or more states or foreign authorities could seek to impose additional sales, use or other tax collection and record-keeping obligations on us or may determine that such taxes should have, but have not been, paid by us. Liability for past taxes may also include substantial interest and penalty charges. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to compel us to collect and remit sales tax, use tax or other taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If our products fail to help our customers achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We believe we generate a portion of our revenues from our products and services because our customers use our products and services as part of their efforts to achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, and we expect that will continue for the foreseeable future. Examples of industry standards and government regulations include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS); the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and associated National Institute for Standards and Testing (NIST) Network Security Standards; the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, which governs food and drugs industries; the North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection Plan (NERC-CIP); the proposed European General Data Protection Regulation; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) Minimum Requirements for Risk Management; and the Monetary Authority of Singapores Technology Risk Management Notices. These industry standards may change with little or no notice, including changes that could make them more or less onerous for businesses. In addition, governments may also adopt new laws or regulations, or make changes to existing laws or regulations, that could affect whether our customers believe our solution assists them in maintaining compliance with such laws or regulations. If our solutions fail to expedite our customers compliance initiatives, our customers may lose confidence in our products and could switch to products offered by our competitors. In addition, if government regulations and industry standards related to IT security are changed in a manner that makes them less onerous, our customers may view compliance as less critical to their businesses, and our customers may be less willing to purchase our products and services. In either case, our sales and financial results would suffer. 35 Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions both domestic and abroad. The FCPA prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Bribery Act is similar but even broader in scope in that it prohibits bribery of private (non-government) persons as well. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. Our sales model presents some risk under these laws. We leverage third parties, including channel partners, to sell our solutions and conduct our business abroad. We and our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies, state-owned or affiliated entities and non-governmental commercial entities, and may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedure to address compliance with these laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, adverse media coverage and other consequences. Any investigations, actions or sanctions could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export controls and economic sanctions laws that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws, including the U.S. Commerce Departments Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. The U.S. export control laws and U.S. economic sanctions laws include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities and also require authorization for the export of encryption items. We are also subject to Israeli export controls on encryption technology for SecurityIQ. If the applicable U.S. or Israeli requirements regarding export of encryption technology were to change or if we change the encryption means in our products, we may need to satisfy additional requirements in the United States or Israel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy any additional requirements under these circumstances in either the United States or Israel. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our services or could limit our customers ability to implement our services in those countries. Although we take precautions to prevent our products from being provided in violation of such laws, our products may have been in the past, and could in the future be, provided inadvertently in violation of such laws, despite the precautions we take. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges and monetary penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular transaction may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Although we take precautions to prevent transactions with U.S. sanction targets, we could inadvertently provide our products to persons prohibited by U.S. sanctions. This could result in negative consequences to us, including government investigations, penalties and harm to our reputation. 36 Our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements are subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes, which would harm our operating results. Based on our current corporate structure, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing. The relevant taxing authorities may determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties. Such authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries. Any increase in the amount of taxes we pay or that are imposed on us could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our ability to use net operating losses and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code), a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs), tax credits or other tax attributes, to offset future taxable income or taxes. For these purposes, an ownership change generally occurs where the aggregate stock ownership of one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who owns at least 5% of a corporations stock increases its ownership by more than 50 percentage points over its lowest ownership percentage within a specified testing period. Our existing NOLs may be subject to substantial limitations arising from previous ownership changes, and if we undergo an ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, many of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under state law. Accordingly, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to utilize our NOLs is conditioned upon our attaining profitability and generating U. S. federal and state taxable income. We function as a HIPAA business associate for certain of our customers and, as such, are subject to strict privacy and data security requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we could be subject to significant liability, all of which can adversely affect our business as well as our ability to attract and retain new customers. The Health Insurance Portability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and their respective implementing regulations (HIPAA), imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAAs security standards directly applicable to business associates. We function as a business associate for certain of our customers that are HIPAA covered entities and service providers and, in that context we are regulated as a business associate for the purposes of HIPAA. If we are unable to comply with our obligations as a HIPAA business associate, we could face substantial civil and even criminal liability. Modifying the already stringent penalty structure that was present under HIPAA prior to HITECH, HITECH created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, many state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from HIPAA and each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect. The HIPAA covered entities and service providers to which we provide services require us to enter into HIPAA-compliant business associate agreements with them. These agreements impose stringent data security obligations on us. If we are unable to meet the requirements of any of these business associate agreements, we could face contractual liability under the applicable business associate agreement as well as possible civil and criminal liability under HIPAA, all of which can have an adverse impact on our business and generate negative publicity, which, in turn, can have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain new customers. 37 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NYSE, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company, we are subject to laws, regulations and requirements with which we were not required to comply as a private company, including compliance with reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NYSE. As a newly public company, complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and has significantly increased our costs and expenses as compared to when we were a private company. For example, as a newly public company, we have had to institute a more comprehensive compliance function, establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading, and involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants. In addition, being a public company subject to these rules and regulations has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers as compared to when we were a private company. Furthermore, while we generally must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an emerging growth company. Accordingly, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until as late as our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022. Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. The trading price of our common stock could be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Our initial public offering occurred in November 2017. Therefore, there has only been a public market for our common stock for a short period of time. Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE, an active trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, be sustained. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in November 2017 at a price of $12.00 per share, our stock price has fluctuated significantly. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; changes in how customers perceive the benefits of our platform; shifts in the mix of revenue attributable to perpetual licenses and to SaaS subscriptions from quarter to quarter; departures of key personnel; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; sales of large blocks of our common stock; actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our operating results; whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; 38 changes in actual or future expectations of investors or securities analysts; litigation involving us, our industry or both; regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events in our domestic and foreign markets; and flash crashes, freeze flashes or other glitches that disrupt trading on the securities exchange on which we are listed. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the trading price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention and resources from our business. This could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In the past, following periods of volatility in the trading price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention and resources from our business. This could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. An active public trading market may not continue to develop or be sustained. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering in November 2017, no public market for our common stock existed. An active public trading market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares of our common stock at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. If securities analysts or industry analysts were to downgrade our stock, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our competitive position could suffer, and our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock, to some extent, depends on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our stock or publish negative research or reports, cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports about our business, our competitive position could suffer, and our stock price and trading volume could decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are unable to predict the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. 39 As of March 15, 2018, we have outstanding 87,205,120 shares of common stock. Of these shares, the 23,000,000 shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable. In addition, 63,600,396 shares of our common stock will be eligible for sale in the public market on May 16, 2018 following the expiration of the 180-day lock-up period in connection with our initial public offering, subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations of Rule 144, as applicable. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. may, in their sole discretion, permit our stockholders who are subject to these lock-up agreements to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock- up agreements. Sales of a substantial number of such shares upon expiration of, or the perception that such sales may occur, or early release of the shares subject to, the lock-up agreements, could cause our stock price to fall. In addition, as of March 15, 2018, there were 3,766,294 shares of common stock subject to outstanding options and 1,245,826 shares of common stock to be issued upon the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units. We have registered all of the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options, upon the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units and upon exercise of settlement of any options or other equity incentives we may grant in the future, for public resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). Accordingly, these shares may be freely sold in the public market upon issuance as permitted by any applicable vesting requirements, subject to the lock-up agreements described above and compliance with applicable securities laws. Furthermore, holders of 70,115,454 shares of our common stock have certain rights with respect to the registration of such shares (and any additional shares acquired by such holders in the future) under the Securities Act. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. We may issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders. We may also raise capital through equity financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies and issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock to decline. Our charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors who are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; after Thoma Bravo ceases to beneficially own at least 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, removal of directors only for cause; the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; allowing Thoma Bravo to fill vacancy on our board of directors for so long as affiliates of Thoma Bravo own 30% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock and thereafter, allowing only our board of directors, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; after we cease to be a controlled company, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; 40 after we cease to be a controlled company, the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by or at the direction of our board of directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; after we cease to be a controlled company, the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2 / 3 % of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our charter relating to the management of our business (including our classified board structure) or certain provisions of our bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquirer to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirers own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; and a prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of our board of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates. Our charter also contains a provision that provides us with protections similar to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), and prevents us from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with an interested stockholder (i.e., a person or group who acquires at least 15% of our voting stock) for a period of three years from the date such person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. However, our charter also provides that Thoma Bravo, including the Thoma Bravo Funds, and any persons to whom any Thoma Bravo Fund sells its common stock will be deemed not to be interested stockholders. Thoma Bravo has a controlling influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Thoma Bravo, as the ultimate general partner of the Thoma Bravo Funds, beneficially owns in the aggregate 57.7% of our common stock as of March 15, 2018 (which shares are held directly by the Thoma Bravo Funds or their affiliates). As a result, Thoma Bravo could exert significant influence over our operations and business strategy and would have sufficient voting power to effectively control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval. These matters may include: the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; raising future capital; and amending our charter and bylaws, which govern the rights attached to our common stock. 41 Additionally, for so long as Thoma Bravo beneficially owns at least (i) 30% of our outstanding shares of common stock, Thoma Bravo will have the right to designate the chairman of our board of directors and of each committee of our board of directors as well as nominate a majority of our board of directors (provided that, at such time as we cease to be a controlled company under the NYSE corporate governance standards, the majority of our board of directors will be independent directors, as defined under the rules of the NYSE, and provided further, that, the membership of each committee of our board of directors will comply with the applicable rules of the NYSE); (ii) 20% (but less than 30%) of our outstanding shares of common stock, Thoma Bravo will have the right to nominate a number of directors to our board of directors equal to the lowest whole number that is greater than 30% of the total number of directors (but in no event fewer than two directors); (iii) 10% (but less than 20%) of our outstanding shares of common stock, Thoma Bravo will have the right to nominate a number of directors to our board of directors equal to the lowest whole number that is greater than 20% of the total number of directors (but in no event fewer than one director); and (iv) at least 5% (but less than 10%) of our outstanding shares of common stock, Thoma Bravo will have the right to nominate one director to our board of directors. For so long as Thoma Bravo beneficially owns at least 30% of our outstanding shares of common stock, the directors nominated by Thoma Bravo are expected to constitute a majority of each committee of our board of directors, other than the audit committee. This concentration of ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our common stock that might otherwise result in the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Thoma Bravo may pursue corporate opportunities independent of us that could present conflicts with our and our stockholders interests. Thoma Bravo is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and holds (and may from time to time in the future acquire) interests in or provides advice to businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Thoma Bravo may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our charter provides that no officer or director of the Company who is also an officer, director, employee, managing director or other affiliate of Thoma Bravo will be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual pursues or acquires a corporate opportunity for its own account or the account of an affiliate, as applicable, instead of us, directs a corporate opportunity to any other person, instead of us or does not communicate information regarding a corporate opportunity to us. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. 42 Our charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our charter or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our charter described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our charter inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain requirements that apply to other public companies. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we are not required to, among other things: (i) provide an auditors attestation report on managements assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (ii) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; (iii) provide certain disclosures regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or (iv) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation and any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for adopting new or revised financial accounting standards. We have elected take advantage of the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards permitted under the JOBS Act until we are no longer an emerging growth company. If we were to subsequently elect instead to comply with these public company effective dates, such election would be irrevocable pursuant to the JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years after our initial public offering, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. When we lose our emerging growth company status or if we elect to no longer take advantage of the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards permitted under the JOBS Act, the emerging growth company exemptions will cease to apply and we expect we will incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with the non-emerging growth company requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of these expenses, which may be substantial. 43 We are controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Thoma Bravo beneficially owns, on a combined basis, a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors as defined under the rules of the NYSE; the nominating and governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committees purpose and responsibilities; and the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committees purpose and responsibilities. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a controlled company. We currently utilize some or all of these exemptions. Accordingly, our investors may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See the section titled ManagementStatus as a Controlled Company below. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. We have a lease for a new 164,818 square-feet corporate headquarters in Austin, Texas that is currently under construction. We anticipate that the leases term will commence during the second fiscal quarter of 2019 (but may commence earlier or later, depending on the date the construction thereof is substantially completed or when we first conduct business therein), and it expires approximately 10 years from such commencement date. Our current corporate headquarters occupy 44,633 square feet in Austin, Texas under a lease that expires 20 business days after the commencement date for the lease for our new corporate headquarters. In addition to our headquarters, we have additional office space in Austin, Texas, and office space in Pune, India and Tel Aviv, Israel. Consistent with our growth, we currently plan to consolidate our Austin offices in 2019. We lease all of our facilities. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and anticipate that suitable additional space will be readily available to accommodate any foreseeable expansion of our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are not currently a party to, nor is our property currently subject to, any material legal proceedings. We are not aware of any inquiries or investigations into our business. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. None 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol SAIL. Initial trading of our common stock commenced on November 17, 2017. Accordingly, no market for our common stock existed prior to that date. The table below sets forth, for the period indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock since November 17, 2017 as regularly quoted on the NYSE. Year ended December 31, 2017 High Low Fourth Quarter (from November 17, 2017) $ 16.36 $ 12.82 On March 15, 2018, the closing sale price of our common stock on the NYSE was $21.60 per share. Holders of Record On March 15, 2018, there were 288 holders of record of our common stock. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all our earnings for the repayment of our outstanding debt and to finance the growth and development of our business. Any further determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. In addition, our credit facility places restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Stock Performance Graph The following is not soliciting material, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing . The graph assumes that $100 was invested on November 17, 2017 in the Companys common stock, in the NYSE composite index and the S&P 600 information technology index, and that all dividends were reinvested. The stock price performance on the following graph are required by the SEC and are not necessarily intended to forecast or be indicative of future stock price performance . 45 The closing price of our common stock on December 29, 2017, the last trading day of our 2017 fiscal year, was $14.50 per share. The closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2017, the last day of our 2017 fiscal year, was $14.50 per share. Company /Index 11/17/17 11/30/17 12/31/17 SAIL $ 100.00 $ 113.07 $ 111.53 NYSE Composite $ 100.00 $ 102.60 $ 104.24 S&P 600 IT $ 100.00 $ 97.30 $ 94.94 Recent Sale of Unregistered Securities Between January 1, 2017 and November 20, 2017, we had the following sales of unregistered securities: (i) grants to certain of our employees, consultants and other service providers of options to purchase an aggregate of 1,765,420 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $3.17 to $ 12.00 per share, (ii) grants to certain of our employees, consultants and other service providers of restricted stock awards for an aggregate of 897,284 shares of common stock, and (iii) issuances to certain of our employees, consultants and other service providers of an aggregate of 160,740 shares of common stock upon the exercise of options at exercise prices ranging from $1.07 to $ 2.46 per share, for a weighted-average exercise price of $ 2.23. None of the foregoing transactions involved any underwriters, underwriting discounts or commissions, or any public offering. We believe the offers, sales and issuances of the above securities were exempt from registration under the Securities Act by virtue of Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act (or Regulation D or Regulation S promulgated thereunder) because the issuance of securities to the recipients did not involve a public offering, or in reliance on Rule 701 because the transactions were pursuant to compensatory benefit plans or contracts relating to compensation as provided under such rule. The recipients of the securities in each of these transactions represented their intentions to acquire the securities for investment only and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution thereof, and appropriate legends were placed upon the stock certificates issued in these transactions. All recipients had adequate access, through their relationships with us, to information about us. The sales of these securities were made without any general solicitation or advertising. 46 Use of Proceeds from Initial Public Offering of Common stock On November 16, 2017, the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-221036) relating to our initial public offering was declared effective by the SEC and we priced our initial public offering. Pursuant to the Registration Statement, we registered an aggregate of 23,000,000 shares of our common stock, of which 15,800,000 shares were sold by us and 7,200,000 shares were sold by certain selling stockholders named therein at a price to the public of $12.00 per share (for an aggregate offering price of $276.0 million). We received net proceeds of approximately $172.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $13.3 million and offering-related expenses of $4.4 million. No payments were made to our directors or officers or their associates, holders of 10% or more of any class of our equity securities or any affiliates. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Jefferies LLC and RBC Capital Markets, LLC acted as book-running managers and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Canaccord Genuity Inc. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. acted as co-managers (collectively, the Underwriters) for our initial public offering. Our initial public offering closed in November 2017. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our initial public offering as described in our final prospectus dated November 16, 2017 and filed with the SEC on November 17, 2017 pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2017, we have used $90.0 million of the proceeds from our initial public offering to repay borrowings under our term loan facility and approximately $1.4 million of such proceeds to pay a related prepayment premium. As of December 31, 2017, all of the remaining net proceeds are held in cash and have not been deployed. 47 Item 6: Selected Financial Data The following selected historical financial data has been derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our selected consolidated financial data may not be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations (in thousands, except per share amounts). Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In thousands, except share and per share data) Revenue: Licenses $ 79,209 $ 54,395 $ 44,124 Subscription 71,007 49,364 29,930 Services and other 35,840 28,653 21,302 Total revenue 186,056 132,412 95,356 Cost of revenue: Licenses 4,561 4,278 4,293 Subscription (1) 16,406 13,051 9,815 Services and other (1) 23,623 19,709 15,151 Total cost of revenue 44,590 37,038 29,259 Gross profit 141,466 95,374 66,097 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 33,331 24,358 19,965 General and administrative (1) 17,678 9,680 7,474 Sales and marketing (1) 80,514 58,607 46,831 Total operating expenses 131,523 92,645 74,270 Income (loss) from operations 9,943 2,729 (8,173 ) Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (14,783 ) (7,277 ) (3,883 ) Other, net (459 ) (610 ) (1,365 ) Total other expense, net (15,242 ) (7,887 ) (5,248 ) Loss before income taxes (5,299 ) (5,158 ) (13,421 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (2,293 ) 1,985 2,614 Net loss $ (7,592 ) $ (3,173 ) $ (10,807 ) Net loss available to common shareholders $ (28,721 ) $ (26,791 ) $ (32,404 ) Net loss per share Basic: $ (0.55 ) $ (0.58 ) $ (0.74 ) Diluted: $ (0.55 ) $ (0.58 ) $ (0.74 ) Weighted-average shares of common stock used in computing net loss per share attributable to common stockholders Basic: 52,339,804 45,933,218 43,929,159 Diluted: 52,339,804 45,933,218 43,929,159 48 (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 133 $ 34 $ 12 Cost of revenue - services and other 458 63 20 Research and development 658 118 62 General and administrative 2,062 96 28 Sales and marketing 1,203 257 124 Total stock-based compensation $ 4,514 $ 568 $ 246 Consolidated Balance Sheet data: As of December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 116,049 $ 18,214 $ 14,896 Working capital, excluding deferred revenue (1) $ 172,492 $ 60,047 $ 27,982 Total assets $ 506,433 $ 387,410 $ 371,504 Deferred revenue, current and non-current portion $ 83,125 $ 55,104 $ 34,888 Long-term debt $ 68,329 $ 107,344 $ 99,770 Total liabilities $ 178,036 $ 177,307 $ 160,465 Redeemable convertible preferred stock $ $ 223,987 $ 222,898 Total stockholders' equity (deficit) $ 328,397 $ (13,884 ) $ (11,859 ) (1) We define working capital as current assets less current liabilities, excluding deferred revenue. 49 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the section titled Selected Consolidated Financial and Other Data and the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full fiscal year or any other period. Overview SailPoint is the leading provider of enterprise identity governance solutions. Our open identity platform provides organizations with critical visibility into who currently has access to which resources, who should have access to those resources, and how that access is being used. We offer both on-premises software and cloud-based solutions, which empower our customers to efficiently and securely govern the digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners and other users, and manage their constantly changing access rights to enterprise applications and data across hybrid IT environments, whether comprised of on-premises, cloud or mobile applications. We help customers enable their businesses with more agile and innovative IT, enhance their security posture and better meet compliance and regulatory requirements. We believe that our open identity platform is a critical, foundational layer of a modern cyber security strategy that complements and builds upon traditional perimeter- and endpoint-centric security solutions, which on their own are increasingly insufficient to secure organizations, and their applications and data. Our customers include many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations, including commercial enterprises, educational institutions and governments. We were founded by identity industry veterans to develop a new category of identity management solutions and address emerging identity governance challenges. Since our inception, we have focused on driving innovation in the identity market, with our key milestones including: in 2007, we pioneered identity governance through our release of IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution; in 2010, we revolutionized provisioning by integrating it with IdentityIQ into a single solution; in 2013, we introduced our cloud-based identity governance solution, IdentityNow; in 2015, we extended identity governance by adding our identity governance for data stored in files solution, SecurityIQ, which manages user access to unstructured data, a rapidly growing area of risk; and in 2017, we further extended identity governance with the introduction of our advanced identity analytics solution, IdentityAI, which is designed to use machine learning technologies to enable rapid detection of security threats before they turn into security breaches. Our solutions address the complex needs of global enterprises and mid-market organizations. As of December 31, 2017, 933 customers across a wide variety of industries were using our products to enable and secure digital identities across the globe. No single customer represented more than 10% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 or 2015. Our revenue grew at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 36% from the year ended December 31, 2012 to the year ended December 31, 2017. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our revenue was $186.1 million, $132.4 million, and $95.4 million, respectively. During such periods, purchase accounting adjustments related to the Acquisition reduced our revenue by $0.1 million, $1.4 million and $5.6 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our net loss was $7.6 million, $3.2 million, and $10.8 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our net cash provided by operations was $21.9 million, $6.5 million, and $3.6 million, respectively. 50 Our success is principally dependent on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Delivering these solutions is challenging because our customers have large, complex IT environments, often rely on both legacy and innovative technologies, and deploy different business models, including on premise and cloud solutions. Rising security threats and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy and internal IT controls create new opportunities for our industry and require us to adapt our solutions to be successful. Our ability to continue to maintain our historical growth rates is also challenging because our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our global presence and invest in new vertical markets, while competing against much larger companies with more recognizable brands and financial resources. Although we seek to grow rapidly, we also focus on delivering positive net cash from operations while continuing to invest in our platform and to deliver innovative solutions to our customers. Additionally, our gross margins vary depending on the type of solution we sell, and a shift in the mix of our solutions could affect our performance relative to historical results. Our Business Model We deliver an integrated set of solutions that supports all aspects of identity governance, including provisioning, access request, compliance controls, password management and identity governance for data stored in files. Our solutions are built on an open identity platform, which offers connectivity to a variety of security and operational IT applications, extending the reach of our identity governance processes and enabling effective identity governance controls across customer environments. Our set of solutions currently consists of (i) IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution, (ii) IdentityNow, our cloud-based, multi-tenant governance suite, which is delivered as a subscription service, and (iii) SecurityIQ, our on-premises identity governance for files solution that secures access to data stored in file servers, collaboration portals, mailboxes and cloud storage systems, and (iv) IdentityAI, our cloud-based advanced identity analytics solution. See in Part I Item 1, the section titled BusinessProducts for more information regarding our solutions. For our IdentityIQ and SecurityIQ solutions, our customers typically purchase a perpetual software license, which includes one year of maintenance. Our maintenance provides software maintenance as well as access to our technical support services during the maintenance term. After the initial maintenance period, customers with perpetual licenses may renew their maintenance agreement for an additional fee. For our cloud-based solutions, IdentityNow and IdentityAI, for a subscription fee, we offer customers access to this solution and infrastructure support for the duration of their subscription agreement. Our standard subscription agreement for our IdentityNow solution has a duration of three years. Pricing for each of our solutions is dependent on the number of digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners and other users that the customer is entitled to govern with the solution. We also package and price our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions into modules. Each module has unique functionalities, and our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow customers are able to purchase one or more modules, depending on their needs. We package and price SecurityIQ, our identity governance for files solution, by target storage systems. Thus, our revenue from any customer is generally determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules (for our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions) or target storage systems (for our SecurityIQ solution) purchased by the customer. Our go-to-market strategy consists of both direct sales and indirect sales through our partnership network of systems integrators, value-added resellers and adjacent technology vendors. We work closely with systems integrators, many of whom have dedicated SailPoint practices (including Accenture, Deloitte, KPMG and PwC), with some dating back more than seven years, and resellers (including value-added resellers such as Optiv) to identify potential sales opportunities and help us increase our reach, and we frequently cooperate with systems integrators to make joint sales proposals to address our mutual customers requirements. We also collaborate with leading access management vendors by adding our identity governance capabilities to their access management services (e.g., Microsoft, Okta and VMware). We do not have any material payment obligations to systems integrators, resellers or our technology partners; nor do they have any material payment obligations to us, except that resellers typically purchase solutions directly from us and resell to customers. See the section titled BusinessPartnerships and Strategic Relationships for more information regarding our partnership network. 51 In addition to our solutions, we offer professional services to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform a significant majority of all initial and follow-on implementation work for our customers. Most of our consulting services are priced on a time and materials basis; our training services are provided through multiple pricing models, including on a per-person basis (for courses provided at our headquarters and on-site at our customers offices) and a flat-rate basis (for our e-learning course). We devote significant resources to acquire new customers, in both existing and new markets, in order to grow our customer base. In addition, we focus on three distinct opportunities to increase sales to existing customers: (i) expand the number of digital identities; (ii) up-sell additional modules or target storage systems, as applicable, within a single solution; and (iii) cross-sell additional solutions. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by our ability to: Add New Customers Within Existing Markets . Based on data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, we believe that we have penetrated less than 2% of the approximately 65,000 companies in the countries where we have customers today and that as a result, there is significant opportunity to expand our footprint in our existing markets through new, greenfield installations and displacement of our competitors legacy solutions. To do so, we plan to grow our sales organization, increase and leverage our indirect channel partners and enhance our marketing efforts. G enerate Additional Sales to Existing Customers . We believe that our existing customer base provides us with a significant opportunity to drive incremental sales. In most cases, our customers initially purchase a subset of the modules or solutions we offer based on their immediate need. We focus on generating more revenue from the modules that our customers have already purchased from us as our customers grow the number of identities our solutions manage and govern and as our customers deploy our solutions across other business units or geographies within their organizations. Over time, we also identify up-selling and cross-selling opportunities and seek to sell additional modules and solutions to our existing customers. Retain Customers. We believe that our ability to retain our customers is an important component of our growth strategy and reflects the long-term value of our customer relationships. For example, when we add a new customer, we generate new license revenue. If the customer renews, we generate incremental maintenance revenue. As we add new IdentityIQ customers, our high renewal rates result in incremental maintenance revenue. Our key strategies to maintain our high renewal rates include focusing on the quality and reliability of our solutions, customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our solutions, providing consistent software upgrades and having dedicated customer success teams. Expand into New Markets . We expect to continue to invest significantly in sales, marketing and customer service, as well as our indirect channel partner network, to expand into new geographies and vertical markets. We believe that our market opportunity is large and growing and that the global cyber security market represents a significant growth opportunity for us. In 2017, we generated only 28% of our revenue outside of the United States. 52 Key Business Metrics In addition to our GAAP financial information, we monitor the following key metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Number of customers 933 695 520 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 38 % 37 % 32 % Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) $ 25,501 $ 15,135 $ 7,464 Number of Customers . We believe that the size of our customer base is an indicator of our market penetration and that our net customer additions are an indicator of the growth of our business and our future revenue opportunity. We define a customer as a distinct entity, division or business unit of an organization that receives support or has the right to use our cloud-based solutions as of the specified measurement date. Subscription Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue . Subscription revenue is a portion of our total revenue and is derived from (i) IdentityNow, our cloud-based solution where customers enter into SaaS subscription agreements with us, and (ii) IdentityIQ and SecurityIQ maintenance and support agreements, but not licenses. As we generally sell our solutions on a per-identity basis, our subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as part of a SaaS subscription, and the ongoing price paid per-identity under a maintenance and support agreement or SaaS subscription. Thus, we consider our subscription revenue to be the recurring portion of our revenue base and believe that its continued growth as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Because we recognize our subscription revenue ratably over the duration of those agreements, a portion of the revenue we recognize each period is derived from agreements we entered into in prior periods. In contrast, we typically recognize license revenue upon entering into the applicable license, the timing of which is less predictable and may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a measure widely used by securities analysts and investors to evaluate the financial performance of our company and other companies. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is an important measure for evaluating our performance because it facilitates comparisons of our core operating results from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (net interest income or expense from our outstanding debt), asset base (depreciation and amortization), tax consequences, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation. In addition, we base certain of our forward-looking estimates and budgets on adjusted EBITDA. See the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information regarding adjusted EBITDA, including the limitations of using adjusted EBITDA as a financial measure, and for a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures to clarify and enhance our understanding of past performance and future prospects. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys operating performance, financial position or cash flow that includes or excludes amounts that are included or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. As discussed below, we monitor the non-GAAP financial measures described below, and we believe they are helpful to investors. 53 Our non-GAAP financial measures may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in our industry because they may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently. In addition, there are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and exclude expenses that may have a material impact on our reported financial results. In particular, interest expense, which is excluded from adjusted EBITDA has been and will continue to be a significant recurring expense in our business for the foreseeable future. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge you to review the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. We exclude stock-based compensation expense because it is non-cash in nature and excluding this expense provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and allows investors the ability to make more meaningful comparisons between our operating results and those of other companies. We also exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, the partial release of the valuation allowance due to acquisition, facility exit costs, and make adjustments related to a financing lease obligation from our non-GAAP financial measures because these are considered by management to be outside of our core operating results. Accordingly, we believe that excluding these expenses provides investors and management with greater visibility to the underlying performance of our business operations and may also facilitate comparison with the results of other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income (loss) adjusted to exclude income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation and amortization, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation expense. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a measure widely used by securities analysts and investors to evaluate the financial performance of our company and other companies. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is an important measure for evaluating our performance because it facilitates comparisons of our core operating results from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (net interest income or expense from our outstanding debt), asset base (depreciation and amortization), tax consequences, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation. In addition, we base certain of our forward-looking estimates and budgets on adjusted EBITDA. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In thousands) Net loss $ (7,592 ) $ (3,173 ) (10,807 ) Stock-based compensation 4,514 568 246 Amortization 8,841 9,092 9,099 Depreciation 1,379 890 521 Purchase price accounting adjustment (1) 141 1,373 5,618 Acquisition and sponsor related costs 1,142 1,093 1,518 Interest expense 14,783 7,277 3,883 Income tax expense (benefit) 2,293 (1,985 ) (2,614 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 25,501 $ 15,135 $ 7,464 54 The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for our unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of operations data for each of the quarters indicated : Three Months Ended 12/31/2017 9/30/2017 6/30/2017 3/31/2017 12/31/2016 9/30/2016 6/30/2016 3/31/2016 (In thousands) Net income (loss) $ 5,382 $ (6,387 ) $ (4,304 ) $ (2,283 ) $ 3,306 $ (2,247 ) $ (2,118 ) $ (2,114 ) Stock-based compensation 3,970 201 185 158 238 116 109 105 Amortization 2,206 2,207 2,207 2,211 2,229 2,130 2,258 2,475 Depreciation 444 385 295 265 243 227 213 207 Purchase price accounting adjustment (1) 15 16 55 55 290 292 392 399 Acquisition and sponsor related costs 164 322 328 328 290 268 265 270 Interest expense 5,704 3,726 2,696 2,657 2,830 2,355 1,060 1,032 Income tax (benefit) expense (769 ) 2,906 395 (239 ) 2,072 (1,407 ) (1,326 ) (1,324 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 17,116 $ 3,376 $ 1,857 $ 3,152 $ 11,498 $ 1,734 $ 853 $ 1,050 (1) Purchase accounting adjustment related to the fair value write down of deferred revenue from the acquisition. For more information relating to such transaction, please see Note 3 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Components of Results of Operations Revenue License Revenue. We generate license revenue through the sale of our on premises software license agreements. License transactions generally include an amount for first-year maintenance, which we recognize as subscription revenue. We typically recognize license revenue upon delivering the applicable license, assuming all revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Over time, we expect license revenue to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue as we continue to focus on increasing our subscription revenue as a key strategic priority. Subscription Revenue. Our subscription revenue consists of fees for (i) ongoing maintenance and support of our licensed solutions and (ii) subscription fees for access to, and related support for, our cloud-based solution. We typically invoice subscription fees in advance, in annual installments, and recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the applicable agreement, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Over time, we expect subscription revenue will increase as a percentage of total revenue as we continue to focus on increasing subscription revenue as a key strategic priority. In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our subscription revenue was impacted by purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue from the Acquisition. See the section titled Impact of Purchase Accounting. Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue consists primarily of fees from professional services provided to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services are priced on a time and materials basis, and we generally invoice customers monthly as the work is performed. We generally have standalone value for our professional services and recognize revenue as services are performed based on an estimated fair value as a separate unit of accounting. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform the significant majority of all initial and follow-on configuration and optimization work 55 for our customers. Over time, we expect our professional services revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline as we increasingly rely on partners to help our customers deploy our software. In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, our services and other revenue was impacted by purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue from the Acquisition. See the section titled Impact of Purchase Accounting. Impact of Purchase Accounting. On September 8, 2014, SailPoint Technologies Holdings, Inc. acquired all of the capital stock of SailPoint Technologies, Inc. We refer to this transaction as the Acquisition. As a result of the Acquisition, we applied purchase accounting and a new basis of accounting beginning on the date of the Acquisition. As such, we were required by GAAP to record all assets and liabilities, including deferred revenue and long-lived assets, at fair value as of the effective date of the Acquisition, which in some cases was different than their historical book values. This had the effect of reducing revenue and deferred revenue and increasing cost of revenue from that which would have otherwise been recognized, as described in more detail below. We assessed the fair value of deferred revenue acquired in the Acquisition to be $10.2 million, representing a decrease of $12.6 million from its historical book value. Recognizing deferred revenue at fair value reduces revenue in the periods subsequent to the Acquisition. The impact of the Acquisition to revenue was $0.1 million, $1.4 million and $5.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The effect of the Acquisition on the deferred costs was not material. Cost of Revenue Cost of License Revenue . Cost of license revenue consists of amortization expense for developed technology acquired in business combinations and third-party royalties. Cost of Subscription Revenue . Cost of subscription revenue consists primarily of employee compensation cost (which consists of salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation), costs of our customer support organization, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels, allocated overhead, amortization expense for developed technology acquired in business combinations and third-party cloud-based hosting costs. Cost of Services and Other Revenue . Cost of services and other revenue consists primarily of employee compensation costs of our professional services and training organizations, travel-related costs, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels and allocated overhead. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the mix of our license, subscription, and services and other revenue, the costs associated with third-party cloud-based hosting services for our cloud-based subscriptions, and the extent to which we expand our customer support and services organizations. We expect that our overall gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these various factors. Also, we expect our investment in technology to expand the capability of our services, enabling us to improve our gross margin over time. License Gross Margin . License gross margin is primarily affected by the cost of third-party royalties and amortization of developed technology acquired in business combinations, neither of which are expected to fluctuate materially from period to period in the near term. Subscription Gross Margin . Subscription gross margin is primarily affected by the growth in our subscription revenue as compared to the growth in, and timing of, cost of subscription revenue. Subscription gross margin is lower than our license gross margin due to, among other things, costs associated with our customer support organization and the costs associated with our cloud-based solution. We expect to continue to grow our subscription revenue, and the timing and rate of that growth might cause subscription gross margins to fluctuate in the near term then improve over time as we expect to see the benefits of scale in the infrastructure investments related to our cloud-based solution. 56 Services and Other Gross Margin . Services and other gross margin is impacted by the number of customers using our professional services, the hourly rate we are able to charge for our services and the mix of services provided. Services and other gross margin is lower than our license gross margin and our subscription gross margin due to, among other things, costs associated with our professional services and training organizations. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs, allocated overhead and software and maintenance expenses, which includes cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based solution. We believe that continued investment in our offerings is vital to the growth of our business, and we intend to continue to invest in product development and in SailPoint Labs, our dedicated, stand-alone technology investigation and engineering group, to continue to innovate and offer our customers new solutions and to enhance our existing solutions as our business grows. See the section titled BusinessResearch and Development for more information. We expect such investment to increase on a dollar basis as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs for corporate personnel, such as those in our executive, human resource, facilities, accounting and finance and information technology departments. In addition, general and administrative expenses include third-party professional fees and sponsor-related costs, as well as all other supporting corporate expenses not allocated to other departments. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase on a dollar basis as our business grows. Also, following the completion of our initial public offering in November 2017, we incur increased general and administrative expenses as a result of becoming a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations and professional services. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs, sales commissions, costs of general marketing and promotional activities, travel-related expenses and allocated overhead. Sales commissions earned by our sales force on subscription contracts are deferred and amortized over the same period that revenue is recognized for the applicable contract. We expect to continue to invest in our sales force for expansion to new geographic and vertical markets. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase on a dollar basis and continue to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. Allocated Overhead. We allocate shared costs, such as facilities costs (including rent and utilities), information technology costs and recruiting costs, to all departments based on headcount. As such, allocated shared costs are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and foreign currency transaction gains and losses related to the impact of transactions denominated in a foreign currency. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. Interest expense, net of interest income, consists primarily of interest on our term loan facility, amortization of debt issuance costs, loss on the modification and partial extinguishment of debt and prepayment penalties. Income Tax Expense Provision for income taxes consists of U.S. and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development for our operations in the United States. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. 57 Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to the valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets and foreign withholding taxes; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes; unanticipated changes in tax rates; differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation and the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In thousands) Revenue: Licenses $ 79,209 $ 54,395 $ 44,124 Subscription 71,007 49,364 29,930 Services and other 35,840 28,653 21,302 Total revenue 186,056 132,412 95,356 Cost of revenue: Licenses 4,561 4,278 4,293 Subscription (1) 16,406 13,051 9,815 Services and other (1) 23,623 19,709 15,151 Total cost of revenue 44,590 37,038 29,259 Gross profit 141,466 95,374 66,097 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 33,331 24,358 19,965 General and administrative (1) 17,678 9,680 7,474 Sales and marketing (1) 80,514 58,607 46,831 Total operating expenses 131,523 92,645 74,270 Income (loss) from operations 9,943 2,729 (8,173 ) Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (14,783 ) (7,277 ) (3,883 ) Other, net (459 ) (610 ) (1,365 ) Total other expense, net (15,242 ) (7,887 ) (5,248 ) Loss before income taxes (5,299 ) (5,158 ) (13,421 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (2,293 ) 1,985 2,614 Net loss $ (7,592 ) $ (3,173 ) $ (10,807 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 133 $ 34 $ 12 Cost of revenue - services and other 458 63 20 Research and development 658 118 62 General and administrative 2,062 96 28 Sales and marketing 1,203 257 124 Total stock-based compensation $ 4,514 $ 568 $ 246 58 The following table sets forth the consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Revenue: Licenses 43 % 41 % 46 % Subscription 38 37 32 Services and other 19 22 22 Total revenue 100 100 100 Cost of revenue: Licenses 2 3 5 Subscription 9 10 10 Services and other 13 15 16 Total cost of revenue 24 28 31 Gross profit 76 72 69 Operating expenses: Research and development 18 18 21 General and administrative 10 7 8 Sales and marketing 43 45 49 Total operating expenses 71 70 78 Income (loss) from operations 5 2 (9 ) Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (8 ) (5 ) (4 ) Other, net (0 ) (0 ) (1 ) Total other expense, net (8 ) (5 ) (5 ) Loss before income taxes (3 ) (3 ) (14 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (1 ) 1 3 Net loss (4 )% (2 )% (11 )% Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 variance $ variance % Revenue: (In thousands, except percentages) Licenses $ 79,209 $ 54,395 $ 24,814 46% Subscription 71,007 49,364 21,643 44% Services and other 35,840 28,653 7,187 25% Total revenue $ 186,056 $ 132,412 $ 53,644 41% License Revenue . License revenue increased by $24.8 million, or 46%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Although license revenue from new customers was greater than license revenue from existing customers for December 31, 2017 and 2016, the increase in total license revenue was primarily attributable to follow-on sales to our existing customers. During the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 revenue from new customers was $48.4 million and $42.2 million and license revenue from existing customers was $30.8 million and $12.2 million, respectively. Our revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased . 59 Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue increased by $21.6 million, or 44%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in ongoing maintenance renewals and an increase in maintenance revenue derived from new licenses. Our customer base increased by 238, or 34%, from 695 customers at December 31, 2016 to 933 customers at December 31, 2017. Approximately $1.2 million of the increase in subscription revenue is the result of a decrease in the purchase accounting write down of deferred revenue subsequent to the Acquisition. Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $7.2 million, or 25%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase is primarily a result of an increase in the number of customers using our consulting and training services. Geographic Regions . Our operations in the United States were responsible for the largest portion of our revenue in each year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 because of our larger and more established sales force and partner network in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue from both Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and the rest of the world also increased for years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, primarily due to our investment in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. The following table sets forth, for each of the periods presented, our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 134,676 72% $ 92,116 70% EMEA (1) 33,097 18% 25,668 19% Rest of the World (1) 18,283 10% 14,628 11% Total revenue $ 186,056 100% $ 132,412 100% (1) No single country represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Cost of Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 variance $ variance % Cost of revenue: (In thousands, except percentages) Licenses $ 4,561 $ 4,278 $ 283 7 % Subscription 16,406 13,051 3,355 26 % Services and other 23,623 19,709 3,914 20 % Total cost of revenue $ 44,590 $ 37,038 $ 7,552 20 % Cost of License Revenue . The cost of license revenue increased by $0.3 million, or 7%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. During each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, cost of license revenue included $4.0 million in amortization of intangibles acquired in business combinations. Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue increased by $3.4 million, or 26%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Approximately $1.7 million was attributable to an increase in headcount and related allocated expenses to support growth of our subscription cloud-based offering and ongoing maintenance for our expanding licensed customer base. Approximately $1.6 million was attributable to our increased cloud-based hosting costs. 60 Cost of Services and Other Revenue. Cost of services and other revenue increased by $3.9 million, or 20%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Substantially all of the increase was the result of our increased services and training headcount and related allocated overhead. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit: Licenses $ 74,648 $ 50,117 $ 24,531 49 % Subscription 54,601 36,313 18,288 50 % Services and other 12,217 8,944 3,273 37 % Total gross profit $ 141,466 $ 95,374 $ 46,092 48 % Gross Margin: Licenses 94 % 92 % Subscription 77 % 74 % Services and other 34 % 31 % Total gross margin 76 % 72 % Licenses. License gross profit increased by $24.5 million, or 49%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was the result of increased license revenues with only minor increases in third party royalties. Subscription. Subscription gross profit increased by $18.3 million, or 50%, during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was the result of growth in subscription revenue, as described above, coupled with growth in costs of subscription revenue at a rate lower than our revenue growth as we continue to build economies of scale within our customer support organization and our utilization of cloud-based hosting services. Services and Other . Services and other gross profit increased by $3.3 million, or 37%, during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase was the result of the volume and mix of services provided in the period yielding a higher price per hour as well as the headcount required to provide such professional services increasing at a slower rate as we continue to build economies of scale within our professional services and training organization. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 variance $ variance % Operating expenses: (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 33,331 $ 24,358 $ 8,973 37 % General and administrative 17,678 9,680 7,998 83 % Sales and marketing 80,514 58,607 21,907 37 % Total operating expenses $ 131,523 $ 92,645 $ 38,878 42 % 61 Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $9.0 million, or 37%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 . Approximately 81% of this increase was the result of an increase in headcount, and related allocated overhead, to optimize and expand our product offerings as well as pursue innovation in identity governance. Substantially all of the remaining increase in research and development expenses was the result of increased software and maintenance expenses, primarily cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based offering. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $8.0 million, or 83%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Approximately 77% of the increase was the result of an increase in corporate headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support the growth and scale of the business. In 2017, approximately $2.0 million of increase was related to stock compensation expense compared to 2016. Additionally, general and administrative expenses increased as a result of increase in professional services expenses comprised of legal, accounting and consulting fees. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $21.9 million, or 37%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Approximately $17.4 million, or 80%, of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support increased penetration into our existing customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. As our headcount increased we also experienced related increases in travel and advertising costs of $1.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Substantially all of the remaining increase in sales and marketing expenses was the result of increased partner commissions and consulting costs. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income, increased by $7.3 million, or 93%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. These increases were the result of our entry into a new credit facility, effective in August 2016, which increased the stated interest rate from 3.7% to 9.0%, as well as our amendment in June of 2017, which increased the term loan principal by $50 million. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2017, we paid down $90.0 million of our debt resulting in approximately $1.4 million of cash prepayment penalties and $1.7 million in a non-cash loss on the resulting modification and partial extinguishment of our debt. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 variance $ variance % Revenue: (In thousands, except percentages) Licenses $ 54,395 $ 44,124 $ 10,271 23 % Subscription 49,364 29,930 19,434 65 % Services and other 28,653 21,302 7,351 35 % Total revenue $ 132,412 $ 95,356 $ 37,056 39 % License Revenue. License revenue increased by $10.3 million, or 23%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to sales to new customers. During the years ended December 2015 and 2016, license revenue from new customers was $29.4 million and $42.2 million, respectively and license revenue from existing customers was $14.7 million and $12.2 million, respectively. Our revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased. 62 Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue increased by $19.4 million, or 65%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in maintenance renewals and an increase in maintenance revenue derived from new licenses sales. Our customer base increased by 175, or 34%, from 520 customers at December 31, 2015 to 695 customers at December 31, 2016. Approximately $3.9 million of the increase in subscription revenue is the result of a decrease in the purchase accounting write down of deferred revenue subsequent to the Acquisition. Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $7.4 million, or 35%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase is primarily the result of an increase in the number of customers using our consulting and training services. Approximately $0.3 million of the increase in services and other revenue is the result of a decrease in the purchase accounting write down of deferred revenue subsequent to the Acquisition. Geographic Regions . Our operations in the United States were responsible for the largest portion of our revenue in each year ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, as well as for our revenue growth in year ended December 31, 2016, as compared to the prior year period, because of our larger and more established sales force and partner network in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue from both EMEA and the rest of the world also increased for the December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015, primarily due to our investment in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. The following table sets forth, for each of the periods presented, our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 92,116 70 % $ 63,440 67 % EMEA (1) 25,668 19 % 20,770 22 % Rest of the World (1) 14,628 11 % 11,146 12 % Total revenue $ 132,412 100 % $ 95,356 100 % (1) No single country represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Cost of Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 variance $ variance % Cost of revenue: (In thousands, except percentages) Licenses $ 4,278 $ 4,293 $ (15 ) (0 )% Subscription 13,051 9,815 3,236 33 % Services and other 19,709 15,151 4,558 30 % Total cost of revenue $ 37,038 $ 29,259 $ 7,779 27 % Cost of License Revenue. The cost of license revenue did not materially change in dollar amount from period to period. During the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, cost of license revenues included $4.0 million and $3.7 million, respectively, of amortization of intangibles acquired in business combinations. 63 Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue increased by $3.2 million, or 33%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. Approximately $2.6 million of the increase was the result of our increased headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support growth of our subscription cloud-based offering and ongoing maintenance for our expanding licensed customer base. Approximately $0.6 million of the increase was the result of our increased cloud-based hosting costs for our cloud-based solution. During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016, cost of subscription revenue included $0.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, of amortization of intangibles acquired in business combinations. Cost of Services and Other Revenue. Cost of services and other revenue increased by $4.6 million, or 30%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. Approximately 95% of the increase was the result of our increased services and training headcount and related allocated overhead. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit: Licenses $ 50,117 $ 39,831 $ 10,286 26 % Subscription 36,313 20,115 16,198 81 % Services and other 8,944 6,151 2,793 45 % Total gross profit $ 95,374 $ 66,097 $ 29,277 44 % Gross Margin: Licenses 92% 90% Subscription 74% 67% Services and other 31% 29% Total gross margin 72% 69% Licenses. License gross profit increased by $10.3 million, or 26%, during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was the result of increased license revenue as well as decreased costs on license revenue as a result of acquiring the SecurityIQ technology in July of 2015. Subscription. Subscription gross profit increased by $16.2 million, or 81%, during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was the result of growth in subscription revenue, as described above, coupled with growth in costs of subscription revenue at a rate lower than our revenue growth as we continue to build economies of scale within our customer support organization and our utilization of cloud-based hosting services. Services and Other. Services and other gross profit increased by $2.8 million, or 45%, during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. This increase was the result of the volume and mix of services provided in the period. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 24,358 $ 19,965 $ 4,393 22 % General and administrative 9,680 7,474 2,206 30 % Sales and marketing 58,607 46,831 11,776 25 % Total operating expenses $ 92,645 $ 74,270 $ 18,375 25 % 64 Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $4.4 million, or 22%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. Approximately $4.0 million of the increase was the result of our increased headcount, and related allocated overhead, to optimize and expand our product offerings as well as pursue innovation in identity governance. Approximately $0.5 million of the increase was the result of increased software and maintenance expenses, primarily cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based solution. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $2.2 million, or 30%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of a $0.9 million increase in corporate staff, and related allocated overhead, to support the growth and scale of the business and a $1.3 million increase in professional service expense, including sponsor-related costs and other consulting and advisory costs. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $11.8 million, or 25%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. Approximately $10.2 million of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support increased penetration into our existing customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. Also contributing to the increase in sales and marketing expenses was a $1.6 million increase in expenses related to advertising and marketing programs and a $1.3 million increase in travel expenses, partially offset by a $0.8 million decrease in consulting costs, and a $0.6 million decrease in amortization expense. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net increased by $0.8 million, or 55%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on sales transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income, increased by $3.4 million, or 87%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was the result of our entry into a new credit facility, effective in August of 2016, which increased the stated interest rate from 3.7% to 9.0%. 65 Quarterly Results of Operations The following tables set forth our unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of operations data for each of the quarters indicated. The information for each quarter has been prepared on a basis consistent with our audited consolidated financial statements included, and reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature that are necessary for a fair presentation of the financial information contained in those statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. The following quarterly financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Three Months Ended 12/31/2017 9/30/2017 6/30/2017 3/31/2017 12/31/2016 9/30/2016 6/30/2016 3/31/2016 (In thousands) Revenue: Licenses $ 36,657 $ 16,975 $ 13,341 $ 12,236 $ 22,232 $ 11,379 $ 10,892 $ 9,892 Subscription 21,225 18,506 16,324 14,952 14,081 12,631 11,683 10,969 Services and other 9,886 8,081 9,595 8,278 8,035 7,166 6,861 6,591 Total revenue 67,768 43,562 39,260 35,466 44,348 31,176 29,436 27,452 Cost of revenue: Licenses 1,260 1,104 1,110 1,087 1,106 1,064 1,075 1,033 Subscription (1) 4,873 4,020 3,938 3,575 3,474 3,620 3,144 2,813 Services and other (1) 6,549 5,954 5,647 5,473 5,363 5,353 4,770 4,223 Total cost of revenue 12,682 11,078 10,695 10,135 9,943 10,037 8,989 8,069 Gross profit 55,086 32,484 28,565 25,331 34,405 21,139 20,447 19,383 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 9,995 8,443 7,966 6,927 6,635 6,169 6,062 5,492 General and administrative (1) 6,790 4,414 3,442 3,032 2,447 2,298 2,272 2,663 Sales and marketing (1) 27,781 19,220 18,340 15,173 16,901 13,854 14,465 13,387 Total operating expenses 44,566 32,077 29,748 25,132 25,983 22,321 22,799 21,542 Income (loss) from operations 10,520 407 (1,183 ) 199 8,422 (1,182 ) (2,352 ) (2,159 ) Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (5,704 ) (3,726 ) (2,696 ) (2,657 ) (2,830 ) (2,355 ) (1,060 ) (1,032 ) Other, net (203 ) (162 ) (30 ) (64 ) (214 ) (117 ) (32 ) (247 ) Total other expense, net (5,907 ) (3,888 ) (2,726 ) (2,721 ) (3,044 ) (2,472 ) (1,092 ) (1,279 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 4,613 (3,481 ) (3,909 ) (2,522 ) 5,378 (3,654 ) (3,444 ) (3,438 ) Income tax benefit (expense) 769 (2,906 ) (395 ) 239 (2,072 ) 1,407 1,326 1,324 Net income (loss) $ 5,382 $ (6,387 ) $ (4,304 ) $ (2,283 ) $ 3,306 $ (2,247 ) $ (2,118 ) $ (2,114 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: 66 Three Months Ended 12/31/2017 9/30/2017 6/30/2017 3/31/2017 12/31/2016 9/30/2016 6/30/2016 3/31/2016 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 100 $ 14 $ 9 $ 9 $ 14 $ 7 $ 7 $ 6 Cost of revenue - services and other 399 23 20 18 26 13 12 12 Research and development 551 41 35 30 50 24 22 22 General and administrative 1,964 23 45 30 36 20 20 20 Sales and marketing 956 100 76 71 112 52 48 45 Total stock-based compensation $ 3,970 $ 201 $ 185 $ 158 $ 238 $ 116 $ 109 $ 105 Quarterly Trends in Revenue Our quarterly license revenue increased sequentially within each calendar year presented; however, we experienced a decline sequentially from the fourth quarter of each year to the first quarter of the subsequent year due to increased customer purchasing activity in each fourth quarter. We continue to experience growth in license revenue when comparing similar periods year over year as a result of our ability to attract new customers and expand our product offerings within our existing customer base. Our quarterly subscription revenue increased in each period presented primarily due to increases in maintenance renewals as a result of our expanding licensed customer base. Sales of subscriptions to our platform also continue to grow as a result of the expanding breadth and functionality of our platform, increasing brand awareness, and the success of our sales efforts with new and existing customers. We recognize revenue from maintenance and subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract period; therefore, changes in our sales activity in a period may not be as apparent as a change to our revenue until future periods. Our quarterly services and other revenue increased sequentially in each period presented. We have experienced increasing demand for our consulting and training services as our customer base, including both licensed and recurring, has continued to expand. Quarterly Trends in Operating Expenses Our operating expenses have generally increased sequentially as a result of our growth and are primarily related to increases in personnel-related costs to support our expanded operations and our continued investment in our platform infrastructure and service capabilities. Quarterly Key Business Metrics Three Months Ended 12/31/2017 9/30/2017 6/30/2017 3/31/2017 12/31/2016 9/30/2016 6/30/2016 3/31/2016 Number of customers 933 829 776 725 695 628 589 558 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 31 % 42 % 42 % 42 % 32 % 41 % 40 % 40 % Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) $ 17,116 $ 3,376 $ 1,857 $ 3,152 $ 11,498 $ 1,734 $ 853 $ 1,050 67 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2017, we had $116.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1.4 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $3.2 million of cash and cash equivalents held in our foreign subsidiaries. We do not consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of India, to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions and have consistently applied Section 956 of the Internal Revenue Code to such earnings. As a result of applying Section 956 consistently to our intercompany cash flows, the majority of the earnings in our foreign subsidiaries represent income that was previously taxed in the United States. As a result, there would be no material income tax consequences to repatriating the cash currently held in our foreign subsidiaries. In India, we continue to invest and grow our research and development activities and have no plans to repatriate undistributed earning held in India back to the U.S. parent company, and therefore consider earnings in India to be permanently reinvested. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new solutions and product enhancements. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under our revolving credit facility are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Although we are not currently a party to any agreement or letter of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. We have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to enter into any such acquisitions. Also, as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through license fees, maintenance fees, subscription fees, consulting and training fees, borrowings under our credit facility and, to a lesser degree, the sale of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and capital expenditures. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the strategic growth of our company. Our Credit Facility On August 16, 2016, we entered into a senior secured credit facility (our credit facility), consisting of a $115 million term loan facility and a $5 million revolving credit facility, pursuant to a credit and guaranty agreement by and among SailPoint Technologies, Inc., as the borrower, and SailPoint Technologies Intermediate Holdings, LLC and SailPoint International, Inc., as guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent and collateral agent, which was subsequently amended and restated on November 2, 2016 to provide for a letter of credit sub-facility with an aggregate limit equal to the lesser of $5 million and the aggregate unused amount of the revolving commitments then in effect. Our credit facility was further amended on June 28, 2017 to provide for (i) an increase to the term loan facility in an additional principal amount of $50 million to partially fund a $50.4 million dividend paid to the holders of our preferred stock and (ii) an increase to the revolving credit facility in an additional principal amount of $2.5 million, and (iii) an increase in the letter of credit sub-facility aggregate limit to the lesser of $7.5 million and the aggregate unused amount of the revolving commitments then in effect. Each of the term loan facility and revolving credit facility has a maturity of five years and will mature on August 16, 2021. 68 In fourth quarter of 2017, we amended our existing credit facility in connection with the consummation of our initial public offering. Such amendment required that we use a portion of our net proceeds from our initial public offering to repay an amount of borrowings outstanding under our term loan facility to reduce the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof to $70.0 million (which repayment was subject to a prepayment premium of 1.50%). We used a portion of our net proceeds from our initial public offering to repay $90.0 million of such borrowings and paid the related prepayment premium of approximately $1.4 million. In addition, this payment resulted in a non-cash charge of $1.7 million on the modification and partial extinguishment of debt. As of December 31, 2017, the balance outstanding under the term loan facility was $70.0 million and is included in long term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. Our revolving line of credit has a face value of $7.5 million and was undrawn as of December 31, 2017. We had $1.4 million available under the revolving credit facility due to $6.1 million in standby letters of credit, issued primarily in connection with our new corporate headquarters lease. See Item 2 Properties for more information regarding our new corporate headquarters lease. All of our obligations under our credit facility are guaranteed by our existing and future domestic subsidiaries and, subject to certain exceptions, secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 21,856 $ 6,540 $ 3,560 Cash used in investing activities (2,521 ) (1,255 ) (16,308 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 78,520 (1,962 ) 9,849 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 97,855 $ 3,323 $ (2,899 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities During 2017, cash provided by operating activities was $21.9 million, which consisted of a net loss of $7.6 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $17.2 million and a net change of $12.2 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $10.2 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.7 million, loss on modification and partial extinguishment of debt of $1.7 million and stock-based compensation of $4.5 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $28.0 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services, an increase in accrued expenses of $10.9 million due primarily to accrual of additional commissions and bonuses, an increase in accounts payable of $1.4 million due to timing of cash disbursements, an increase in income taxes payable of $0.6 million, partially offset by an increase in prepayments and other assets of $2.2 million, and increase in other non-current assets of $2.5 million, and an increase in accounts receivable of $24.1 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers. During 2016, cash provided by operating activities was $6.5 million, which consisted of a net loss of $3.2 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $8.8 million and a net change of $0.9 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $10.0 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.7 million, and stock-based compensation of $0.6 million, partially offset by $2.5 million in deferred taxes. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $20.2 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services and an increase in accrued expenses of $1.7 million related primarily to commissions on our subscription revenue, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $17.2 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.6 million due to payments for various services to be rendered in subsequent periods and a decrease in accounts payable of $0.3 million due to timing of cash disbursements. 69 During 2015, cash provided by operating activities was $3.6 million, which consisted of a net loss of $10.8 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $6.7 million and a change of $7.7 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $9.6 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.1 million, and stock-based compensation of $0.2 million, partially offset by $3.3 million in deferred taxes. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, was primarily a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $11.6 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services and an increase in accrued expenses of $3.1 million related primarily to commissions on our subscription revenue, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $5.3 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, an increase in prepayments and other assets of $1.1 million due to payments for various services to be rendered in subsequent periods, and an increase in accounts payable of $0.6 million due to timing of cash disbursements. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2017, cash used in investing activities was $2.5 million, consisting of $2.7 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $0.2 million in proceeds from sales of property and equipment. During 2016, cash used in investing activities was $1.3 million, consisting of purchases of property and equipment. During 2015, cash used in investing activities was $16.3 million, consisting of $15.2 million of cash paid for acquisitions and $1.2 million in purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2017, cash provided by financing activities was $78.5 million, consisting of $172.0 million of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $13.3 million, proceeds from borrowing of $50.0 million, $0.4 million of the proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $90.0 million in repayments of debt, $1.4 million of debt issuance cost, $50.4 million for preferred dividend payments, $1.4 million in debt prepayment and $0.7 million in purchase of equity shares. During 2016, cash used in financing activities was $2.0 million, consisting of $3.1 million in debt issuance costs and $0.2 million for the repurchase of common and preferred stock, partially offset by $1.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred stock. During 2015, cash provided by financing activities was $9.8 million, consisting of net proceeds of $10.0 million from a draw down on our prior credit facility and $0.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred stock, partially offset by $0.5 million for the repurchase of common and preferred stock. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities, which includes special purposes entities and other structured finance entities. 70 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our non-cancellable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017: Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years (In thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 52,279 $ 2,785 $ 7,449 $ 9,918 $ 32,127 Term loan facility-principal (1) 70,000 70,000 Term loan facility-interest (2) 14,438 3,850 7,700 2,888 Purchase obligations 21,825 6,950 14,875 Total $ 158,542 $ 13,585 $ 30,024 $ 82,806 $ 32,127 (1) The amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. In 2017, we used a portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering to repay $90.0 million of such borrowings and paid the related prepayment premium of approximately $1.4 million. (2) Amounts represent estimated future interest payments on borrowings under our term loan facility, which are floating rate instruments and were estimated using the interest rate effective at December 31, 2017 of approximately 5.5% multiplied by the principal outstanding on December 31, 2017. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be effected. We believe that the accounting policies associated with revenue recognition, share-based compensation and income taxes are most significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Therefore, these are considered to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from the following sources: (i) fees for licenses, (ii) ongoing maintenance of our licensed products and subscription fees for access to our cloud-based offering and related support and (iii) fees for consulting with our customers on configuring and optimizing the use of our products and subscription services and training services related to the implementation and configuration of our platform. We recognize revenue net of sales taxes and other applicable taxes, in accordance with GAAP, when all of the following criteria are met: there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred or service has been performed, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. 71 When non-software arrangements involve multiple elements that qualify as separate units of accounting, we allocate revenue to each deliverable based upon its relative selling price. The estimated selling price for each element is based upon the following hierarchy: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of selling price, if available; (ii) third-party evidence (TPE) of selling price, if VSOE of selling price is not available; or (iii) best estimate of selling price (ESP), if neither VSOE of selling price nor TPE of selling price is available. When software arrangements involve multiple elements that qualify as separate units of accounting, we allocate revenue to each element based on VSOE. We frequently enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple elements or deliverables. For arrangements that include both software and non-software elements, we allocate revenue to the software deliverables as a group and separable non-software deliverables as a group based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the accounting principles establish a hierarchy to determine the selling price used for allocating revenue to the deliverables as follows: (i) VSOE, (ii) TPE and (iii) ESP. Cloud-based services, and professional services related to cloud-based services, are considered to be non-software elements in our arrangements. VSOE of fair value for each element is based on our standard rates charged for the product or service when such product or service is sold separately or based upon the price established by our pricing committee when that product or service is not yet being sold separately. We establish VSOE for maintenance and professional services using a bell-shaped curve approach. When applying the bell-shaped curve approach, we analyze all maintenance renewal transactions over the past 12 months for that category of license and plot those data points on a bell-shaped curve to ensure that a high percentage of the data points are within an acceptable margin of the established VSOE rate. This analysis is performed quarterly on a rolling 12-month basis. When we are unable to establish a selling price for non-software arrangements using VSOE or TPE, we use ESP in the allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and formal approval by our management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy, pricing factors and analysis of historical transactions. Revenue for software arrangements that include undelivered elements is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements for which we have established VSOE is deferred and recognized as delivered to the customer and the remaining portion of the agreement fee is recognized as license revenue upon delivery. The determination of fair value of each undelivered element in software arrangements is based on VSOE. If VSOE has not been established for certain undelivered elements in an agreement, revenue is deferred until those elements have been delivered or their VSOE has been determined. Revenue from maintenance and SaaS services is recognized ratably over the relevant contract period. Services revenue includes fees from consulting and training services. Consulting and training services are judged to not be essential to the functionality of our software and SaaS offerings, are listed separately in arrangements, are optional, and are sold separately. As a result, the Company has established VSOE or ESP for consulting and training services and they therefore qualify for separate accounting. In order to account for deliverables in some multiple-deliverable arrangements as separate units of accounting, delivered elements must have standalone value. In determining whether professional services have standalone value, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the software or SaaS sale, and the contractual dependence of the sale on the customers satisfaction with the professional services. Professional services sold as part of SaaS arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting. Consulting and training service revenue that qualifies for separate accounting is recognized as the services are performed using the proportional performance method for fixed fee consulting contracts, or when the right to the service expires. Many of our consulting contracts are billed on a time and materials basis. 72 Customer advances and billed amounts due from customers in excess of revenue recognized are recorded as deferred revenue. Stock-based Compensation We recognize compensation costs related to equity awards, including stock options and incentive units, granted based on the estimated fair value of the awards on the date of grant, net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate the grant date fair value, and the resulting stock-based compensation expense, using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The grant date fair value of stock-based awards is expensed on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (generally the vesting period). The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions. Our assumptions are as follows: Expected volatility . As we have been a public company for a limited amount of time and do not have a sufficient trading history for our common stock, the expected stock price volatility for our common stock is estimated by taking the average historical price volatility for industry peers over a period equivalent to the expected term of the stock option grants. We intend to continue to consistently apply this process until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own common stock share price becomes available. Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the yields of U.S. Treasury securities with maturities similar to the expected term of the options for each option group. Expected dividend yield . We have never declared or paid any cash dividends to common stockholders and do not presently plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we use an expected dividend yield of zero. Expected term . The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. As we do not have sufficient historical experience for determining the expected term of the stock option awards granted, we base our expected term for awards issued to employees or members of our board of directors on the simplified method, which represents the average period from vesting to the expiration of the stock option. In addition to the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, we also estimate a forfeiture rate to calculate the stock-based compensation for our equity awards. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the expected volatility, expected terms and forfeiture rates used for our stock-based compensation calculations on a prospective basis. We analyze the facts and circumstances of each equity instrument to determine if modification accounting is required. This analysis includes a review of factors that influence the probability of vesting. If circumstances arise that have changed the probability that an equity instrument will vest, or other factors have triggered a modification, the revised fair value is calculated, and additional stock-based compensation is recognized over the remaining service period of the modified option. Historically, for all periods prior to our initial public offering, the fair values of the shares of common stock underlying our stock-based awards were estimated on each grant date by our board of directors. In order to determine the fair value of our common stock underlying option grants, our board of directors considered, among other things, enterprise value of comparable public companies evaluated on a quarterly basis and the overall market and economic environment. For stock awards after the completion of our initial public offering, our board of directors determines the fair value of each share of underlying common stock based on the closing price of our common stock as reported on the date of grant. 73 Income Taxes We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the United States as well as in other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to current federal and state income tax in the United States. We account for uncertain tax positions based on those positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We determine if the amount of available support indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. We then measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact our tax provision in our consolidated statements of operations in the period in which such determination is made. As of December 31, 2017, we had deferred tax assets of approximately $5.6 million, primarily comprised of our net operating loss carryforwards. We have a full valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development for our operations in the United States. We will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. Any adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded in the periods in which the adjustment is determined to be required. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of net tangible and identified net assets acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not be amortized, but rather tested for impairment annually, or more often if and when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We have determined that we operate as one reporting unit and may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount and whether the two-step impairment test on goodwill is required. Goodwill is tested using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test, used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired, and thus the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test shall be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test, used to measure the amount of impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The loss recognized cannot exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. After a goodwill impairment loss is recognized, the adjusted carrying amount of goodwill shall be its new accounting basis. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference. There were no impairments of goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, and our reporting unit is not at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. In 2017, we elected to change the annual assessment date for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets from December 31st to October 31st because the change in date creates synergy and enhance the quality of our indefinite lived intangible assets impairment analysis. 74 The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act ( JOBS) Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of all of the reduced reporting requirements and exemptions, including the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards, until we are no longer an emerging growth company. Our election to use the phase-in periods permitted by this election may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the longer phase-in periods under the JOBS Act and who will comply with new or revised financial accounting standards. If we were to subsequently elect to instead comply with these public company effective dates, such election would be irrevocable pursuant to the JOBS Act. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of our recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting standards not yet adopted, see Note 2 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.