Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report) and the Annual Report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included therein. SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. All statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report regarding our strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues and losses, projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. These forward-looking statements are based on managements current beliefs, based on currently available information, as to the outcome and timing of future events. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in this Quarterly Report in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations and Risk Factors. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained this Quarterly Report primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results or those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include the following: our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to deepen our relationships with existing customers; our expectations regarding our customer growth rate; our ability to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners and further develop strategic relationships; our ability to develop or acquire new solutions, improve our platform and solutions and increase the value of and benefits associated with our platform and solutions; our ability to compete successfully against current and future competitors; our plans to further invest in and grow our business, and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; our ability to adapt and respond to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing regulations and changing customer needs; our ability to maintain and enhance our brand or reputation as an industry leader and innovator; our ability to hire, retain, train and motivate our senior management team and key employees; our ability to successfully enter new markets and manage our international expansion; adverse economic conditions in the United States, Europe or the global economy; significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of the public sector; actual or perceived failures by us to comply with privacy policy or legal or regulatory requirements; our ability to maintain third-party licensed software in or with our solutions; and our ability to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in new technologies. These and other important risk factors are described more fully in our reports and other documents filed with the SEC, including under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A in the Annual Report and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report . We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report relate only to events as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Quarterly Report or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. 12 Overview SailPoint is the leading provider of enterprise identity governance solutions. Our open identity platform provides organizations with critical visibility into who currently has access to which resources, who should have access to those resources, and how that access is being used. We offer both on-premises software and cloud-based solutions, which empower our customers to efficiently and securely govern the digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners and other users, and manage their constantly changing access rights to enterprise applications and data across hybrid IT environments, whether comprised of on-premises, cloud or mobile applications. We help customers enable their businesses with more agile and innovative IT, enhance their security posture and better meet compliance and regulatory requirements. We believe that our open identity platform is a critical, foundational layer of a modern cyber security strategy that complements and builds upon traditional perimeter- and endpoint-centric security solutions, which on their own are increasingly insufficient to secure organizations, and their applications and data. Our customers include many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations, including commercial enterprises, educational institutions and governments. We were founded by identity industry veterans to develop a new category of identity management solutions and address emerging identity governance challenges. Since our inception, we have focused on driving innovation in the identity market, with our key milestones including: in 2007, we pioneered identity governance through our release of IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution; in 2010, we revolutionized provisioning by integrating it with IdentityIQ into a single solution; in 2013, we introduced our cloud-based identity governance solution, IdentityNow; in 2015, we extended identity governance by adding our identity governance for data stored in files solution, SecurityIQ, which manages user access to unstructured data, a rapidly growing area of risk; and in 2017, we further extended identity governance with the introduction, on a limited release basis, of our advanced identity analytics solution, IdentityAI, which is designed to use machine learning technologies to enable rapid detection of security threats before they turn into security breaches. Our success is principally dependent on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Delivering these solutions is challenging because our customers have large, complex IT environments, often rely on both legacy and innovative technologies, and deploy different business models, including on premise and cloud solutions. Rising security threats and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy and internal IT controls create new opportunities for our industry and require us to adapt our solutions to be successful. Our ability to continue to maintain our historical growth rates is also challenging because our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our global presence and invest in new vertical markets, while competing against much larger companies with more recognizable brands and financial resources. Although we seek to grow rapidly, we also focus on delivering positive net cash from operations while continuing to invest in our platform and to deliver innovative solutions to our customers. Additionally, our gross margins vary depending on the type of solution we sell, and a shift in the mix of our solutions could affect our performance relative to historical results. Our Business Model We deliver an integrated set of solutions that supports all aspects of identity governance, including provisioning, access request, compliance controls, password management and identity governance for data stored in files. Our solutions are built on an open identity platform, which offers connectivity to a variety of security and operational IT applications, extending the reach of our identity governance processes and enabling effective identity governance controls across customer environments. Our set of solutions currently consists of (i) IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution, (ii) IdentityNow, our cloud-based, multi-tenant governance suite, which is delivered as a subscription service, and (iii) SecurityIQ, our on-premises identity governance for files solution that secures access to data stored in file servers, collaboration portals, mailboxes and cloud storage systems, and (iv) IdentityAI, our cloud-based advanced identity analytics solution. See the section titled BusinessProducts in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report for more information regarding our solutions. For our IdentityIQ and SecurityIQ solutions, our customers typically purchase a perpetual software license, which includes one year of maintenance. Our maintenance provides software maintenance as well as access to our technical support services during the maintenance term. After the initial maintenance period, customers with perpetual licenses may renew their maintenance agreement for an additional fee. For our cloud-based solutions, IdentityNow and IdentityAI, for a subscription fee, we offer customers access to this 13 solution and infrast ructure support for the duration of their subscription agreement. Our standard subscription agreement for our IdentityNow solution has a duration of three years. Pricing for each of our solutions is dependent on the number of digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners and other users that the customer is entitled to govern with the solution. We also package and price our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions into modules. Each module has unique functionalities, and our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow customers are able to purchase one or more modules, depending on their needs. We package and price SecurityIQ, our identity governance for files solution, by target storage systems. Thus, our revenue from any customer is generally determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules (for our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions) or target storage systems (for our SecurityIQ solution) purchased by the customer. Our go-to-market strategy consists of both direct sales and indirect sales through our partnership network of systems integrators, value-added resellers and adjacent technology vendors. We work closely with systems integrators, many of whom have dedicated SailPoint practices (including Accenture, Deloitte, KPMG and PwC), with some dating back more than seven years, and resellers (including value-added resellers such as Optiv) to identify potential sales opportunities and help us increase our reach, and we frequently cooperate with sys tems integrators to make joint sales proposals to address our mutual customers requirements. We also collaborate with leading access management vendors by adding our identity governance capabilities to their access management services (e.g., Microsoft, Okta and VMware). We do not have any material payment obligations to systems integrators, resellers or our technology partners; nor do they have any material payment obligations to us, except that resellers typically purchase solutions directly from us and resell to customers. See the section titled BusinessPartnerships and Strategic Relationships in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report for more information regarding our partnership network. In addition to our solutions, we offer professional services to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform a significant majority of all initial and follow-on implementation work for our customers. Most of our consulting services are priced on a time and materials basis; our training services are provided through multiple pricing models, including on a per-person basis (for courses provided at our headquarters and on-site at our customers offices) and a flat-rate basis (for our e-learning course). We devote significant resources to acquire new customers, in both existing and new markets, in order to grow our customer base. In addition, we focus on three distinct opportunities to increase sales to existing customers: (i) expand the number of digital identities; (ii) up-sell additional modules or target storage systems, as applicable, within a single solution; and (iii) cross-sell additional solutions. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by our ability to: Add New Customers Within Existing Markets . Based on data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, we believe that we have penetrated less than 2% of the approximately 65,000 companies in the countries where we have customers today and that as a result, there is significant opportunity to expand our footprint in our existing markets through new, greenfield installations and displacement of our competitors legacy solutions. To do so, we plan to grow our sales organization, increase and leverage our indirect channel partners and enhance our marketing efforts. G enerate Additional Sales to Existing Customers . We believe that our existing customer base provides us with a significant opportunity to drive incremental sales. In most cases, our customers initially purchase a subset of the modules or solutions we offer based on their immediate need. We focus on generating more revenue from the modules that our customers have already purchased from us as our customers grow the number of identities our solutions manage and govern and as our customers deploy our solutions across other business units or geographies within their organizations. Over time, we also identify up-selling and cross-selling opportunities and seek to sell additional modules and solutions to our existing customers. Retain Customers. We believe that our ability to retain our customers is an important component of our growth strategy and reflects the long-term value of our customer relationships. For example, when we add a new customer, we generate new license revenue. If the customer renews, we generate incremental maintenance revenue. As we add new IdentityIQ customers, our high renewal rates result in incremental maintenance revenue. Our key strategies to maintain our high renewal rates include focusing on the quality and reliability of our solutions, customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our solutions, providing consistent software upgrades and having dedicated customer success teams. 14 Expand into New Markets . We expect to continue to invest significantly in sa les, marketing and customer service, as well as our indirect channel partner network, to expand into new geographies and vertical markets. We believe that our market opportunity is large and growing and that the global cyber security market represents a si gnificant growth opportunity for us. Key Business Metrics In addition to our GAAP financial information, we monitor the following key metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Number of customers 984 725 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 46 % 42 % Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) $ 3,342 3,152 Number of Customers . We believe that the size of our customer base is an indicator of our market penetration and that our net customer additions are an indicator of the growth of our business and our future revenue opportunity. We define a customer as a distinct entity, division or business unit of an organization that receives support or has the right to use our cloud-based solutions as of the specified measurement date. Subscription Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue . Subscription revenue is a portion of our total revenue and is derived from (i) IdentityNow, our cloud-based solution where customers enter into SaaS subscription agreements with us, and (ii) IdentityIQ and SecurityIQ maintenance and support agreements, but not licenses. As we generally sell our solutions on a per-identity basis, our subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as part of a SaaS subscription, and the ongoing price paid per-identity under a maintenance and support agreement or SaaS subscription. Thus, we consider our subscription revenue to be the recurring portion of our revenue base and believe that its continued growth as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Because we recognize our subscription revenue ratably over the duration of those agreements, a portion of the revenue we recognize each period is derived from agreements we entered into in prior periods. In contrast, we typically recognize license revenue upon entering into the applicable license, the timing of which is less predictable and may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a measure widely used by securities analysts and investors to evaluate the financial performance of our company and other companies. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is an important measure for evaluating our performance because it facilitates comparisons of our core operating results from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (net interest income or expense from our outstanding debt), asset base (depreciation and amortization), tax consequences, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation. In addition, we base certain of our forward-looking estimates and budgets on adjusted EBITDA. See the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information regarding adjusted EBITDA, including the limitations of using adjusted EBITDA as a financial measure, and for a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, we use adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to clarify and enhance our understanding of past performance and future prospects. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys operating performance, financial position or cash flow that includes or excludes amounts that are included or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted EBITDA may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in our industry because they may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently. In addition, there are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures, such as adjusted EBITDA, because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and exclude expenses that may have a material impact on our reported financial results. In particular, interest expense, which is excluded from adjusted EBITDA, has been and will continue to be a significant recurring expense in our business for the foreseeable future. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge you to review the reconciliations of our adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the comparable GAAP financial measure, included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 15 We calculate ad justed EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted to exclude income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation and amortization, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation expense. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a measure widely used by securities analysts and investors to evaluate the financial performance of our company and other companies. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is an important measure for evaluating our performance because it facilitates comparisons of our core operating results from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (net interest income or expense from our outstanding debt), asset base (depreciation and amortization), tax consequences, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation. In addition, we base certain of our forward-looking estimates and budgets on adjusted EBITDA. The following table reflects the reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net loss calculated in accordance with GAAP: March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 (In thousands) Net loss $ (5,967 ) $ (2,283 ) Stock-based compensation 5,139 158 Amortization 2,206 2,221 Depreciation 421 255 Purchase price accounting adjustment (1) 13 55 Acquisition and sponsor related costs 328 Interest expense 1,178 2,657 Income tax expense (benefit) 352 (239 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 3,342 $ 3,152 (1) Purchase accounting adjustment related to the fair value write down of deferred revenue from the Acquisition. Components of Results of Operations See the section titled Components of Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report, for information regarding the components of our results of operations. 16 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our statement of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 (In thousands) Revenue: Licenses $ 16,987 $ 12,236 Subscription 23,005 14,952 Services and other 9,722 8,278 Total revenue 49,714 35,466 Cost of revenue: Licenses 1,138 1,087 Subscription (1) 4,658 3,575 Services and other (1) 6,974 5,473 Total cost of revenue 12,770 10,135 Gross profit 36,944 25,331 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 9,762 6,927 General and administrative (1) 7,657 3,032 Sales and marketing (1) 23,815 15,173 Total operating expenses 41,234 25,132 (Loss) income from operations (4,290 ) 199 Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (1,178 ) (2,657 ) Other, net (147 ) (64 ) Total other expense, net (1,325 ) (2,721 ) Loss before income taxes (5,615 ) (2,522 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (352 ) 239 Net loss $ (5,967 ) $ (2,283 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 (In thousands) Cost of revenue subscription $ 121 $ 9 Cost of revenue services and other 375 18 Research and development 641 30 General and administrative 2,340 30 Sales and marketing 1,662 71 Total stock-based compensation $ 5,139 $ 158 17 The following table sets forth the consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Revenue: Licenses 34 % 35 % Subscription 46 42 Services and other 20 23 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Licenses 2 3 Subscription 10 10 Services and other 14 15 Total cost of revenue 26 28 Gross profit 74 72 Operating expenses: Research and development 20 19 General and administrative 15 9 Sales and marketing 48 43 Total operating expenses 83 71 (Loss) income from operations (9 ) 1 Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (2 ) (8 ) Other, net (0 ) (0 ) Total other expense, net (2 ) (8 ) Loss before income taxes (11 ) (7 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (1 ) 1 Net loss (12 )% (6 )% Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue: Licenses $ 16,987 $ 12,236 $ 4,751 39 % Subscription 23,005 14,952 8,053 54 % Services and other 9,722 8,278 1,444 17 % Total revenue $ 49,714 $ 35,466 $ 14,248 40 % License Revenue. License revenue increased by $4.8 million, or 39%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. License revenue from new customers and existing customers were nearly equal for the three months ended March 31, 2018; however, the increase in total license revenue compared to March 31, 2017 was primarily attributable to sales to the new customers, with 72% year over year growth. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 revenue from new customers was $8.4 million and $5.0 million, respectively; and license revenue from existing customers was $8.6 million and $7.2 million, respectively. Our revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased. Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue increased by $8.1 million, or 54%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in ongoing maintenance renewals and an increase in maintenance revenue derived from new licenses. Our customer base increased by 259, or 36%, from 725 customers at March 31, 2017 to 984 customers at March 31, 2018. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, revenue from existing customers contributed to more than 95% of subscription revenue. 18 Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $ 1.4 million, or 17 %, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to th e three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase is primarily a result of an increase in the number of customers using our consulting and training services. Geographic Regions . Our operations in the United States were responsible for the largest portion of our revenue in each three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 because of our larger and more established sales force and partner network in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue from both Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and the rest of the world also increased for three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, primarily due to our investment in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. The following table sets forth summary of our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 32,698 66% $ 25,915 73 % EMEA (1) 11,671 23% 5,814 16 % Rest of the World (1) 5,345 11% 3,737 11 % Total revenue $ 49,714 100% $ 35,466 100 % (1) No single country represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 variance $ variance % Cost of revenue: (In thousands, except percentages) Licenses $ 1,138 $ 1,087 $ 51 5 % Subscription 4,658 3,575 1,083 30 % Services and other 6,974 5,473 1,501 27 % Total cost of revenue $ 12,770 $ 10,135 $ 2,635 26 % Cost of License Revenue . The cost of license revenue increased slightly by 5% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. During each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, cost of license revenue included $1.0 million in amortization of intangibles acquired in business combinations. Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue increased by $1.1 million, or 30%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Approximately $0.8 million was attributable to an increase in headcount and related allocated expenses to support growth of our subscription cloud-based offering and ongoing maintenance for our expanding licensed customer base. Approximately $0.3 million was attributable to our increased cloud-based hosting costs. Cost of Services and Other Revenue. Cost of services and other revenue increased by $1.5 million, or 27%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Substantially all of the increase was the result of our increased services and training headcount, related allocated overhead and related stock based compensation expense. 19 Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit: Licenses $ 15,849 $ 11,149 $ 4,700 42 % Subscription 18,347 11,377 6,970 61 % Services and other 2,748 2,805 (57 ) (2 )% Total gross profit $ 36,944 $ 25,331 $ 11,613 46 % Gross Margin: Licenses 93 % 91 % Subscription 80 % 76 % Services and other 28 % 34 % Total gross margin 74 % 71 % Licenses. License gross profit increased by $4.7 million, or 42%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was the result of increased license revenues with only minor increases in third party royalties. Subscription. Subscription gross profit increased by $7.0 million, or 61%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was the result of growth in subscription revenue, as described above, coupled with growth in costs of subscription revenue at a rate lower than our revenue growth as we continue to build economies of scale within our customer support organization and our utilization of cloud-based hosting services. Services and Other . Services and other gross profit decreased by $0.1 million, or 2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This decrease was primarily attributable to the higher costs associated with expanding our infrastructure for our professional services and training organization to support an increasing number of customers. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 variance $ variance % Operating expenses: (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 9,762 $ 6,927 $ 2,835 41 % General and administrative 7,657 3,032 4,625 153 % Sales and marketing 23,815 15,173 8,642 57 % Total operating expenses $ 41,234 $ 25,132 $ 16,102 64 % Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $2.8 million, or 41%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Approximately 83% of this increase was the result of an increase in headcount, and related allocated overhead, to optimize and expand our product offerings as well as pursue innovation in identity governance. Substantially all of the remaining increase in research and development expenses was the result of an increase in stock based compensation expense and an increase in software and maintenance expenses, primarily cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based offering. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $4.6 million, or 153%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Approximately 82% of the increase was the result of an increase in corporate headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support our transition to a public company and the growth and scale of the business. During the first quarter of 2018, approximately $2.3 million of the increase was related to stock based compensation expense. Additionally, general and administrative expenses increased as a result of increase in facility expense and professional services expenses comprised of legal, accounting and consulting fees. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $8.6 million, or 57%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Approximately $7.6 million, or 88%, of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount, stock based compensation expense and related allocated overhead, to support increased penetration into our existing customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. As our 20 headcount increased , we also experienced related increases in travel and advertising costs of $ 0.5 million and $ 0.4 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income, decreased by $1.5 million, or 56%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to March 31, 2017. This decrease was primarily due to refinancing our debt to lower the stated interest rate from 9.0% to 5.5%, as well as decrease in the term loan principal balance and related lower amortization of debt issuance cost. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of U.S. and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development for our operations in the United States. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to the valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets and foreign withholding taxes; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes; unanticipated changes in tax rates; differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation and the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business including the United States and Israel. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to U.S. income tax if such earnings are distributed to the U.S. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception except during the fourth quarter of each year. We have recorded insignificant U.S. federal income tax expense. Our tax expense to date relates primarily to foreign income taxes, mainly from our Israeli activities, and to a lesser extent, state income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 is 6.3% compared to 9.4% for the prior period. The difference in effective tax rate is primarily due to the increase in foreign taxes and in worldwide pre-tax book loss. For further discussion regarding tax matters, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31,2018, we had $131 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1.5 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2018, we had approximately $3.3 million of cash and cash equivalents held in our foreign subsidiaries. We do not consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of India, to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions and have consistently applied Section 956 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to such earnings. As a result of applying Section 956 consistently to our intercompany cash flows, the majority of the earnings in our foreign subsidiaries represent income that was previously taxed in the United States. As a result, there would be no material income tax consequences to repatriating the cash currently held in our foreign subsidiaries. In India, we continue to invest and grow our research and development activities and have no plans to repatriate undistributed earning held in India back to the U.S. parent company, and therefore consider earnings in India to be permanently reinvested. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new solutions and product enhancements. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under our revolving credit facility are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Although we are not currently a party to any agreement or letter of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. We have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to enter into any such acquisitions. Also, as of March 31, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 21 Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through license fees, maintenance fees, subscription fees, consulting and training fees, borrowings under our credit facility and the sale of equity securities including initial public offering. Our pr incipal uses of cash are funding operations and capital expenditures. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the strategic growth of our company. Our Credit Facility Pursuant to a credit and guaranty agreement by and among SailPoint Technologies, Inc., as the borrower, and SailPoint Technologies Intermediate Holdings, LLC and SailPoint International, Inc., as guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent and collateral agent, as amended, we have a senior secured credit facility (our credit facility) that consists of a term loan facility with a balance outstanding of $70.0 million as of March 31,2018, a $7.5 million revolving credit facility, and a letter of credit sub-facility with an aggregate limit equal to the lesser of $7.5 million and the aggregate unused amount of the revolving commitments then in effect. Each of the term loan facility and revolving credit facility has a maturity of five years and will mature on August 16, 2021. As of March 31, 2018, we had $1.5 million available under the revolving credit facility and $6.0 million in standby letters of credit outstanding, issued primarily in connection with our new corporate headquarters lease. All of our obligations under our credit facility are guaranteed by our existing and future domestic subsidiaries and, subject to certain exceptions, secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. Borrowings under our credit facility bear interest at our option at (i) LIBOR, subject to a 1.00% floor, plus a margin, or (ii) the base rate, subject to a 3.50% floor, plus a margin. For LIBOR borrowings, the applicable rate margin is 4.50%. For base rate borrowings, the applicable margin is 4.00%. We are also required to pay a 0.50% per annum fee on undrawn amounts under our revolving credit facility, payable quarterly in arrears. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 15,322 $ 6,858 Cash used in investing activities (526 ) (273 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 62 (238 ) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 14,858 $ 6,347 During the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by operating activities was $15.3 million, which consisted of a net loss of $6.0 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $7.9 million and a net change of $13.4 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $2.6 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.1 million, and stock-based compensation of $5.1 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $5.9 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services, an decrease in accounts receivable of $16.9 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, a decrease in prepayments and other assets of $1.4 million, and an increase in income taxes payable of $0.2 million, partially offset by an decrease in accounts payable of $0.4 million due to timing of cash disbursements, and an decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $10.7 million due primarily to accrual of additional commissions and bonuses. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash provided by operating activities was $6.9 million, which consisted of a net loss of $2.3 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $2.7 million and a net change of $6.4 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $2.5 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.2 million, deferred taxes of $0.1 million and stock-based compensation of $0.2 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $2.1 million due to the timing of billings 22 and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services, a decrease in accounts receivable of $6.5 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from cust omers, an increase in accounts payable of $0.7 million due to timing of cash disbursements, partially offset by a decrease in prepayments and other assets of $0.3 million, a decrease in income taxes payable of $0.3 million and a decrease in accrued expense s of $2. 3 million due primarily to the payout of prior period commissions and bonuses. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash used in investing activities was $0.5 million, consisting of $0.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, compared to three months ended March 31, 2017, cash used in investing activities was $0.3 million, consisting of $0.4 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $0.1 million in proceeds from sales of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by financing activities was $0.1 million proceeds from exercise of stock options. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash used in financing activities was $0.2 million, consisting of $0.3 million for the repurchase of common and preferred stock, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies associated with revenue recognition, share-based compensation and income taxes are most significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Therefore, these are considered to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no material changes to these estimates or the policies related to them during the three months ended March 31, 2018. For a full discussion of these estimates and policies, see the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of all of the reduced reporting requirements and exemptions, including the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards, until we are no longer an emerging growth company. Our election to use the phase-in periods permitted by this election may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the longer phase-in periods under the JOBS Act and who will comply with new or revised financial accounting standards. If we were to subsequently elect to instead comply with these public company effective dates, such election would be irrevocable pursuant to the JOBS Act. 23