Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Management's Discussion and Analysis ($ in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Report and the Annual Report. Except for historical information, the statements in this discussion may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by words such as: "believes," "can," "expect," "likely," "strive," "should," "will" and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding future sales, earnings, return on equity, return on invested capital, cost savings, process improvements, free cash flow, share repurchases, capital expenditures, acquisitions, new products and services, technology licensing activity and other matters. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: (1) global economic conditions and other factors affecting the creditworthiness of our customers; (2) changes in pricing and the competitive environment and the global demand for the Company's products; (3) changes in foreign currency exchange rates; (4) changes in research funding, including changes in funding of various government agencies (e.g. National Institute of Health), and the success of R&D activities; (5) failure of planned sales initiatives in our Research, Applied and SAFC Commercial business units; (6) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations and a global supply chain; (7) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates; (8) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, including the matters described in Note 12 Income Taxes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report; (9) exposure to litigation including product liability claims; (10) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards; (11) reliance on third party package delivery services; (12) an unanticipated increase in interest rates; (13) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates; (14) acquisitions or divestitures of businesses; and (15) the outcome of the outstanding matters described in "Other Matters" below and in Note 14 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report and in Note 13 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report. A further discussion of the Company's risk factors can be found in Part II, Item 1A of this Report and Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Report is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with U.S. GAAP with certain non-GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, U.S. GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by other companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. 14 Table of Contents With over 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, changes due to acquisitions and divestitures. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity in local currency by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates; the result is the defined impact of "changes in foreign currency exchange rates" or "changes in FX." While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur to applicable exchange rates later in 2014 or any future period. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the large volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as a supplemental measure of our ability to generate cash. Overview Background The Company is a leading life science and technology company whose biochemical and organic chemical products, kits and services are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostics and high technology manufacturing. Our customers include pharmaceutical and life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and a wide range of industrial companies. We believe over 1.4 million scientists and technologists use our products. We operate in 37 countries and have approximately 9,100 employees worldwide. The Company is aligned into three market-focused business units that are defined by the customers and markets they serve: Research; Applied; and SAFC Commercial. The business units are closely interrelated in their activities, and share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, e-commerce infrastructure, purchasing and inventory control. The business units also share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these business units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety and compliance and information technology. A summary of our business units is as follows: Research - Our products and services, which include chemicals, reagents and kits, enable scientists to discover and develop new drugs and materials. This business unit generated 52 percent of the Company's sales for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Applied - Our products and services, which primarily include high quality components and kits, chemical reagents, critical raw materials and certified reference standards, provide customized solutions to and constitute critical components and materials for diagnostic companies, testing laboratories and industrial companies. This business unit generated 25 percent of the Company's sales for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . SAFC Commercial - Our products and services are used by our customers to develop and manufacture product and service solutions for the commercial production of pharma, biopharma and electronics products. Products and services include industrial cell culture media, active pharmaceutical ingredients, intermediates, raw materials, biological testing services and organometallic precursors for LED and semiconductor manufacturing. This business unit generated 23 percent of the Company's sales for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non-profit organizations located in the United States and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, global macro economic conditions and government research funding in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere do have some impact on demand for our products and services from certain customers. Strategy The Company's business strategy is designed to drive overall sales and earnings growth while maintaining a return on invested capital at an appropriate premium above the Company's cost of capital. Our key areas of focus address the most significant opportunities and challenges facing the Company, including: Improving Customer Intimacy: To exceed our customers' expectations, we strive to offer the right selection of high quality products and services, provide superior customer service and support and consistently deliver products that meet 15 Table of Contents published or agreed upon specifications when and where our customers need them. The continued enhancement of a leading e-commerce platform is a significant part of this approach. Expanding Products and Services: Increasing our geographic coverage, particularly in the APAC region, pursuing new and innovative technologies and expanding our product and service offerings organically and through strategic acquisitions should help us drive continued sales and earnings growth. Accelerating Operational Excellence: Through optimization of our worldwide footprint, strategic sourcing of our products and materials and driving efficiencies in our distribution networks and operating expenses, we strive to continually enhance our operating margins. Key Business Trends and Highlights In operating our business and monitoring our performance, we consider a number of performance measures, as well as trends affecting our industry as a whole, which include the following: Macroeconomic Concerns Impacting Funding: Uncertainties in the United States and Europe around the macroeconomic environment have impacted overall research funding. Industry Consolidation: Competition in the markets we serve remains fragmented with few companies possessing a significant share in any particular market, which allows some participants to continue consolidating specialty, regional and niche players in the industry. The Company plans to continue to explore opportunities to enhance sales growth and increase its market presence through strategic acquisitions. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations: Since we are a multinational corporation that sells and sources products and services in many different countries, changes in exchange rates have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future sales and operating results. Emerging Market Growth: We continue to focus our sales efforts on emerging markets given the faster growth rates in these areas. In 2012, the Company further expanded its footprint in this area with an expanded distribution center and new packaging facility in Bangalore, India and a new packaging and quality control facility in Wuxi, China. Increasing E-Commerce Channel Adoption: The internet continues to change the markets we serve in terms of access and exposure to existing and potential customers. Ensuring a strong presence in this channel is critical to our long term success as it enables us to find innovative ways to meet our customers' information and product selection needs. Worldwide sales of Research and Applied products through the Company's e-commerce channels, including both web-based and EDI platforms, have grown to 49 percent of the Company's total sales of Research and Applied products during the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to 47 percent during the same prior year period. Pharmaceutical Partnerships and Outsourcing: We continue to take advantage of the expanded market opportunities brought about by several trends in the Pharmaceutical industry. These include the use of outsourcing partners, a shift towards biological drug development and an increase in industry-academia research partnerships. Highlights of our consolidated results for the three months ended March 31, 2014 are as follows: Sales were $689 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , an increase of 2 percent compared to the same prior year period. Excluding impacts from 2013 divestitures, which lowered sales by 1 percent, sales increased organically by 3 percent compared to the same prior year period. Operating income margin was 25.3 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to 24.6 percent in the same prior year period. Diluted net income per share was $1.05 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to $1.01 in the same prior year period. The effective tax rate was 27.2 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to 26.1 percent for the the same prior year period. Net cash provided by operating activities was $172 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , an $18 increase compared to the same prior year period. Total debt was $332 at March 31, 2014 . Debt decreased $33 since December 31, 2013 as a result of using cash to repay a portion of notes payable. 16 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a summary of our unaudited financial results ($ in millions, except per share amounts): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Sales $ 689 $ 675 Cost of products and services sold 338 331 Gross profit 351 344 Selling, general and administrative expenses 160 161 Research and development expenses 16 17 Restructuring charges 1 Operating income 174 166 Interest, net 1 1 Income before income taxes 173 165 Provision for income taxes 47 43 Net income $ 126 $ 122 Net income per share - Diluted $ 1.05 $ 1.01 Sales Sales were $689 in the three months ended March 31, 2014 , up 2 percent from the same prior year period. Divestitures completed in 2013 decreased sales by $2 or 1 percent. The effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by $1 or 0 percent. Excluding the impacts of divestitures and the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, sales increased organically by $17 or 3 percent. Both volume and pricing contributed to organic growth. The change in sales for each of the Company's business units is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Change Impact of Changes in FX Impact from Divestitures Organic Growth Organic Growth % Research $ 359 $ 361 $ (2 ) $ (3 ) $ (1 ) $ 2 1 % Applied 171 159 12 1 11 7 % SAFC Commercial 159 155 4 1 (1 ) 4 3 % Total $ 689 $ 675 $ 14 $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ 17 3 % Research sales were $359 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to $361 during the same prior year period. Sales increased organically by $2 or 1 percent compared to the same prior year period. The primary driver of organic growth was our "dealers as partners" program. Geographically, growth within the EMEA and APAC regions was offset by declines within the Total Americas region. Sales in the Academic and Pharma businesses of Research were also negatively impacted by inclement weather in the U.S. compared to the same period in the prior year. Applied sales were $171 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to $159 during the same prior year period. Sales increased organically by $11 or 7 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same prior year period. The primary driver of growth was sales to customers in the Diagnostic and Testing markets, where our products are used as critical components for diagnostic kits and sales of standards and certified reference materials to clinical testing laboratories. All geographic regions contributed to Applied's overall growth. SAFC Commercial sales were $159 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to $155 during the same prior year period. Sales grew organically by $4 or 3 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same prior year period. The organic growth was led by our Life Science Products and Services businesses and was partially offset by lower sales in our Hitech electronics business resulting from pricing declines of metal organic precursors within the LED market. 17 Table of Contents Geographically, the increase in SAFC Commercial's sales over the prior year was largely led by the Total Americas and APAC regions. Gross Profit Margin and Expenses Key items from the consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of sales and the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and the same prior year period were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Gross profit margin 50.9 % 51.0 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 23.2 % 23.9 % Research and development expenses 2.3 % 2.5 % Restructuring charges 0.1 % % Operating income margin 25.3 % 24.6 % Effective tax rate 27.2 % 26.1 % Cost of Products and Services Sold and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit is calculated as sales less cost of products and services sold and gross profit margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of sales. Cost of products and services sold includes direct materials, labor, distribution and overhead costs associated with the Company's products and services. The company's gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was 50.9% compared to 51.0% in the same prior year period. The following table reflects the significant contributing factors to the net change in gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and the same prior year period: Three Months Ended March 31, Gross profit margin 2013 51.0 % Decreases to gross profit margin: Changes in foreign currency exchange rates (0.7 )% Sales volume/Product mix/Pricing/Other 0.4 % Divestitures 0.2 % Gross profit margin 2014 50.9 % The decline in gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the same prior year period was primarily the result of unfavorable impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The overall decline in gross profit margin was almost completely offset by improvements in Sales volume/Product mix/Pricing/Other. Additionally, the divestiture of certain businesses in 2013 improved the Company's gross profit margin. 18 Table of Contents SG&A Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 160 $ 161 Percentage of sales 23.2 % 23.9 % For the three months ended March 31, 2014, SG&A was largely unchanged from the prior year. Compared to the same prior year period, SG&A as a percentage of sales declined to 23.2% from 23.9% as a result of higher sales in the three months ended March 31, 2014. R&D Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Research and development expenses $ 16 $ 17 Percentage of sales 2.3 % 2.5 % For the three months ended March 31, 2014, R&D expenses were largely unchanged from the prior year. R&D expenses relate primarily to efforts to add new manufactured products, create and develop new technologies and enhance manufacturing processes. Self-manufactured products currently account for approximately 60 percent of total sales. R&D expenses as a percentage of sales have trended down slightly since 2013 as a result of management's efforts to carefully prioritize R&D spending to the most appropriate projects. Restructuring Charges In the third quarter of 2013, the Company committed to a restructuring plan to exit a manufacturing site in Europe. This exit activity impacts approximately 90 employees and is intended to further reduce the Company's fixed cost structure. Total restructuring costs are expected to be $12, comprised of $9 to reduce the value of the assets impacted by these restructuring activities and $3 of employee termination costs. Once fully implemented, the Company expects annual pre-tax savings associated with these activities in a range from $3 to $4. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company recognized $10 of these restructuring costs. During the first quarter of 2014, the Company recognized $1 of the remaining $2 of restructuring costs. Income Taxes The Company's effective tax rate, which includes federal, state and international taxes, was 27.2 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 26.1 percent for the same prior year period. The higher effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2014 compared to the first quarter of 2013 is primarily due to the absence of the U.S. R&D Tax credit for 2014. During the first quarter of 2013, the full benefit of the U.S. R&D Tax Credit for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the three months ended March 31, 2013 was recognized as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 signed into law on January 2, 2013. The U.S. R&D Tax Credit expired effective December 31, 2013. The loss of this benefit was partially offset by increased income in foreign jurisdictions having more favorable tax rates. The effective tax rate for full year 2014 is expected to be approximately 27 percent. Pension and Post-retirement Benefits In February 2014, the Company amended the post-retirement medical benefit plan for certain participants, resulting in a reduction of the Company's projected benefit obligation of $ 17 . This amount will be accreted to net income over the average future service period of participants expected to receive benefits. 19 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited), are summarized in the following table: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 172 $ 154 Investing activities (30 ) (59 ) Financing activities (138 ) (334 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was $172 , an increase of $18 compared to the same prior year period. This increase was largely driven by lower uses of cash for working capital of $29, particularly accounts receivable and accounts payable. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 decreased $29 compared to the same prior year period. This decrease was primarily related to decreased net purchases of certificates of deposits of $32. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 decreased $196 compared to the same prior year period. This decrease is due to the net repayment of $33 of short-term debt during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to a net repayment of short-term debt of $294 in the same prior year period. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, strong free cash flow enabled the Company to repay a substantial amount of its debt. Cash used for share repurchases for the three months ended March 31, 2014 increased to $85, up from $27 in the same prior year period. Long-term debt was $300 at both March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 . Consolidated total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, calculated as the sum of total stockholders' equity and total debt, was 10.1 percent at March 31, 2014 and 11.2 percent at December 31, 2013 . For a description of the Company's material credit facilities and debt covenants, see Note 5 Debt to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Share Repurchases At March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 , the Company had repurchased a total of 102 and 101 million shares, respectively, of an authorized repurchase of 110 million shares. There were 119 million shares outstanding as of March 31, 2014 . The Company expects to continue to offset, in whole or in part, the dilutive impact of issuing share-based compensation with future share repurchases. The Company may repurchase additional shares, but the timing and amount, if any, will depend on market conditions and other factors. Liquidity and Risk Management Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company might be unable to meet its financial obligations in a timely manner or fund its business on an ongoing basis. Factors that could cause such risk to arise include a disruption in the securities markets, downgrades in the Company's credit rating or the unavailability of funds. In addition to the Company's cash flows from operations, the Company utilizes commercial paper, short-term multi-currency debt, cash on hand and long-term debt programs as funding sources. The Company also maintains committed bank lines of credit to support its commercial paper borrowings. Downgrades in the Company's credit rating or other limitations on the ability to access short-term financing, including the ability to refinance short-term debt as it becomes due, would increase interest costs and thereby adversely affect profitability. The Company has considered the potential impact of recent trends in the global economic environment on its liquidity and overall financial condition, particularly with respect to the availability of and the Company's access to short-term credit, including the market for commercial paper. Supported by discussions held with the Company's lenders, management does not believe that a significant risk exists of commercial paper or other credit becoming unavailable within the next twelve months. 20 Table of Contents Management believes that the Company's financial condition is such that internal and external resources are sufficient and available to satisfy the Company's requirements for debt service, capital expenditures, selective acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases, funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plan obligations and working capital presently and for the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2014 , the Company had sufficient net worth to allow for borrowing the full capacity under the credit agreement for each facility without any restriction related to compliance with the respective debt covenants. For a description of the Company's material credit facilities and debt covenants, see Note 5 Debt to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. At March 31, 2014 , substantially all of the Company's cash and cash equivalents were held by its subsidiaries outside of the U.S. The Company expects that existing U.S. liquidity or access to capital will be sufficient to fund its U.S. operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities. In addition, the Company expects that existing international liquidity or access to capital will be sufficient to fund its international operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities. The Company earns income globally. The undistributed earnings of our international subsidiaries are considered to be permanently reinvested in international jurisdictions. The Company has no immediate need or intentions to distribute any of the funds held outside of the U.S. If the Company were to remit undistributed earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company may be subject to both U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for international tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to various international jurisdictions. Contractual Obligations At March 31, 2014 , the Company had $32 of commercial paper outstanding and long-term borrowings of $300 , for a total of $332, representing a decrease in all outstanding debt of $33 since December 31, 2013 . Disclosures regarding additional contractual obligations are included in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report and updated in Note 5 Debt and Note 8 Pension and Post-retirement Benefits to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Other Matters The Company is involved in legal proceedings generally incidental to its business, as described below: The Company is subject to potential liabilities arising out of present and future lawsuits and claims related to product liability, personal injury, contract, commercial, intellectual property, tax, environmental, employment, compliance and other matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company's operations and a number of its products are highly regulated by various governmental agencies around the world and the Company is periodically involved in reviews, investigations and proceedings by governmental agencies. Failure to meet the standards and licensing requirements of these agencies can lead to penalties which can include substantial fines and/or operating restrictions. The Company accrues for potential liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Although the Company believes the amounts reserved are probable and appropriate based on available information, the process of estimating losses involves a considerable degree of judgment by management and the ultimate amounts could vary materially. The Company has self-insured retention limits and has obtained insurance to provide coverage above the self-insured limits for claims made against it, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. At March 31, 2014 , (i) reserves have been provided to cover expected payments for these self-insured amounts, (ii) there were no contingent liabilities that management believes are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity and (iii) there were no material commitments outside of the normal course of business. Material commitments in the normal course of business include notes payable, long-term debt, lease commitments and pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations which are disclosed in Note 7 - Notes Payable, Note 8 - Long-Term Debt, Note 10 - Lease Commitments and Note 16 - Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Plans, respectively, to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report, as updated in Note 5 Debt and Note 8 Pension and Post-retirement Benefits to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. 21 Table of Contents