Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, capitalized internal-use software costs, income taxes, other non-income taxes, business combinations and valuation of goodwill and purchased intangible assets and stock-based compensation. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices, may harm our operating results. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could harm our operating results or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax, value-added and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability for past sales. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to collect additional or past sales tax could adversely affect our business. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our platform in various jurisdictions is unclear. It is possible that we could face sales tax audits and that our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as state tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional amounts as taxes from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We could also be subject to audits in states and international jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for sales taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We file sales tax returns in certain states within the United States as required by law and certain customer contracts for a portion of the products that we provide. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states and many of such states do not apply sales or similar taxes to the vast majority of the products that we provide. However, one or more states or foreign authorities could seek to impose additional sales, use or other tax collection and record-keeping obligations on us or may determine that such taxes should have, but have not been, paid by us. Liability for past taxes may also include substantial interest and penalty charges. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to compel us to collect and remit sales tax, use tax or other taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 34 If our products fail to help our customers achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We believe we generate a portion of our revenues from our products and services because our customers use our products and services as part of their efforts to achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, and we expect that will continue for the foreseeable future. Examples of industry standards and government regulations include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS); the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and associated National Institute for Standards and Testing (NIST) Network Security Standards; the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, which governs food and drugs industries; the North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection Plan (NERC-CIP); the GDPR; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) Minimum Requirements for Risk Management; and the Monetary Authority of Singapores Technology Risk Management Notices. These industry standards may change with little or no notice, including changes that could make them more or less onerous for businesses. In addition, governments may also adopt new laws or regulations, or make changes to existing laws or regulations, that could affect whether our customers believe our solution assists them in maintaining compliance with such laws or regulations. If our solutions fail to expedite our customers compliance initiatives, our customers may lose confidence in our products and could switch to products offered by our competitors. In addition, if government regulations and industry standards related to IT security are changed in a manner that makes them less onerous, our customers may view compliance as less critical to their businesses, and our customers may be less willing to purchase our products and services. In either case, our sales and financial results would suffer. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions both domestic and abroad. The FCPA prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Bribery Act is similar but even broader in scope in that it prohibits bribery of private (non-government) persons as well. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. Our sales model presents some risk under these laws. We leverage third parties, including channel partners, to sell our solutions and conduct our business abroad. We and our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies, state-owned or affiliated entities and non-governmental commercial entities, and may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedure to address compliance with these laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, adverse media coverage and other consequences. Any investigations, actions or sanctions could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export controls and economic sanctions laws that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws, including the U.S. Commerce Departments Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. The U.S. export control laws and U.S. economic sanctions laws include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities and also require authorization for the export of encryption items. We are also subject to Israeli export controls on encryption technology for SecurityIQ (now IndentityIQ File Access Manager). If the applicable U.S. or Israeli requirements regarding export of encryption technology were to change or if we change the encryption means in our products, we may need to satisfy additional requirements in the United States or Israel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy any additional requirements under these circumstances in either the United States or Israel. 35 In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our services or could limit our customers ability to implement our services in those countries. Although we take precautions to prevent our products from being provided in violation of such laws, our products may have been in the past, and could in the future be, provided inadvertently in violation of such laws, despite the precautions we take. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges and monetary penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular transaction may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Although we take precautions to prevent transactions with U.S. sanction targets, we could inadvertently provide our products to persons prohibited by U.S. sanctions. This could result in negative consequences to us, including government investigations, penalties and harm to our reputation. Our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements are subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes, which would harm our operating results. Based on our current corporate structure, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing. The relevant taxing authorities may determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties. Such authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries. Any increase in the amount of taxes we pay or that are imposed on us could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our ability to use net operating losses and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code), a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to an annual limitation on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs), tax credits or other tax attributes, to offset future taxable income or taxes. For these purposes, an ownership change generally occurs where the aggregate stock ownership of one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of a corporations stock increases its ownership by more than 50 percentage points over its lowest ownership percentage within a specified testing period. We recently performed a Section 382 study to determine if any of our existing NOLs, tax credits or other tax attributes would be subject to such limitation. Although we have determined, based on that study, that we underwent an ownership change during 2018, we believe the annual limitation will not result in the expiration of any NOLs, tax credits or other tax attributes prior to utilization. However, future changes in our stock ownership, many of which are outside of our control, could result in another ownership change and subsequently could substantially impair our ability to utilize any NOLs, tax credits or other tax attributes. We function as a HIPAA business associate for certain of our customers and, as such, are subject to strict privacy and data security requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we could be subject to significant liability, all of which can adversely affect our business as well as our ability to attract and retain new customers. The Health Insurance Portability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and their respective implementing regulations (HIPAA), imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAAs security standards directly applicable to business associates. We function as a business associate for certain of our customers that are HIPAA covered entities and service providers and, in that context, we are regulated as a business associate for the purposes of HIPAA. If we are unable to comply with our obligations as a HIPAA business associate, we could face substantial civil and even criminal liability. Modifying the already stringent penalty structure that was present under HIPAA prior to HITECH, HITECH created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, many state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from HIPAA and each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect. 36 The HIPAA covered entities and service providers to which we provide services require us to enter into HIPAA-compliant business associate agreements with them. These agreements impose stringent data security obligations on us. If we are unable to meet the requirements of any of these business associate agreements, we could face contractual liability under the applicable business associate agreement as well as possible civil and criminal liability under HIPAA, all of which can have an adverse impact on our business and generate negative publicity, which, in turn, can have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain new customers. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NYSE, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company, we are subject to laws, regulations and requirements with which we were not required to comply as a private company, including compliance with reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NYSE. As a newly public company, complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and has significantly increased our costs and expenses as compared to when we were a private company. For example, as a newly public company, we have had to institute a more comprehensive compliance function, establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading, and involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants. Additionally, as a public company, we must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including having our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report attesting to the effectiveness of our internal controls that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, being a public company subject to these rules and regulations has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers as compared to when we were a private company. The trading price of our common stock could be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Our initial public offering occurred in November 2017. Therefore, there has only been a public market for our common stock for a short period of time. Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE, an active trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, be sustained. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in November 2017 at a price of $12.00 per share, our stock price has fluctuated significantly. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors listed below and other factors described in this Risk Factors section: announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; changes in how customers perceive the benefits of our platform; shifts in the mix of revenue attributable to perpetual licenses and to SaaS subscriptions from quarter to quarter; departures of key personnel; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; 37 sales of large blocks of our common stock; actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our operating results; whether our operating results meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; changes in actual or future expectations of investors or securities analysts; litigation involving us, our industry or both; regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events in our domestic and foreign markets; cyber-attacks or incidents; and flash crashes, freeze flashes or other glitches that disrupt trading on the securities exchange on which we are listed. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the trading price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention and resources from our business. This could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. An active public trading market may not continue to develop or be sustained. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering in November 2017, no public market for our common stock existed. An active public trading market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares of our common stock at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. If securities analysts or industry analysts were to downgrade our stock, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our competitive position could suffer, and our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock, to some extent, depends on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our stock or publish negative research or reports, cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports about our business, our competitive position could suffer, and our stock price and trading volume could decline. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. We may issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders. We may also raise capital through equity financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies and issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock to decline. 38 Our charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors who are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; removal of directors only for cause; the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by or at the direction of our board of directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2 / 3 % of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our charter relating to the management of our business (including our classified board structure) or certain provisions of our bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquirer to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirers own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; and a prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of our board of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates Our charter also contains a provision that provides us with protections similar to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), and prevents us from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with an interested stockholder (i.e., a person or group who acquires at least 15% of our voting stock) for a period of three years from the date such person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. 39 Our charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our charter or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our charter described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our charter inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. We have a lease for a new 164,818 square-feet corporate headquarters in Austin, Texas that has recently completed construction. The leases term commences in February 2019, and it expires approximately 10 years from such commencement date. Our current corporate headquarters occupy 44,633 square feet in Austin, Texas under a lease that expires 20 business days after the commencement date for the lease for our new corporate headquarters. In addition to our headquarters, we have additional office space in Austin, Texas, and office space in Pune, India and Tel Aviv, Israel. Consistent with our growth, we are currently consolidating our Austin offices in 2019. We lease all of our facilities. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and anticipate that suitable additional space will be readily available to accommodate any foreseeable expansion of our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are not currently a party to, nor is our property currently subject to, any material legal proceedings. We are not aware of any inquiries or investigations into our business. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. None. 40 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol SAIL. On March 11, 2019, the closing sale price of our common stock on the NYSE was $28.46 per share. Holders of Record On March 11, 2019, there were 28 holders of record of our common stock including the Cede & Co, which holds shares of our common stock on behalf of an indeterminate number of beneficial owners. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all our earnings to finance the growth and development of our business. Any further determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. In addition, our credit agreement places restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Stock Performance Graph The following is not soliciting material, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing . The graph assumes that $100 was invested on initial trading of the Companys common stock commenced on November 17, 2017, in the NYSE Composite Index and the S&P 600 Information Technology Index, and that all dividends were reinvested. The stock price performance on the following graph is required by the SEC and is not necessarily intended to forecast or be indicative of future stock price performance . 41 The closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2018 was $23.49 per share. Company/Index 11/17/2017 12/31/2017 3/31/2018 6/30/2018 9/30/2018 12/31/2018 SAIL $ 100.00 $ 111.54 $ 159.15 $ 188.77 $ 261.69 $ 180.69 NYSE Composite $ 100.00 $ 104.23 $ 101.92 $ 103.08 $ 108.50 $ 94.91 S&P 600 IT Index $ 100.00 $ 94.45 $ 94.25 $ 98.62 $ 102.32 $ 84.40 Recent Sale of Unregistered Securities Year Ended December 31, 2018 (a) Total Number of Shares (b) Average Price Paid per Share (c) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (d) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs March 1 through March 31, 2018 6,495 $ 0.05 NA NA April 1 through April 30, 2018 9,570 $ 0.05 NA NA September 1 through September 30, 2018 63 $ 0.05 NA NA Total 16,128 $ 0.05 NA NA The shares purchased for the year ended December 31, 2018, as noted above, were non-vested incentive units that were forfeited upon by the employees who departed the Company. The shares were part of the Incentive Unit Plan as described further in Note 10 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 42 Use of Proceeds from Initial Public Offering of Common S tock On November 16, 2017, the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-221036) relating to our initial public offering was declared effective by the SEC and we priced our initial public offering. Pursuant to the Registration Statement, we registered an aggregate of 23,000,000 shares of our common stock, of which 15,800,000 shares were sold by us and 7,200,000 shares were sold by certain selling stockholders named therein at a price to the public of $12.00 per share (for an aggregate offering price of $276.0 million). We received net proceeds of approximately $172.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $13.3 million and offering-related expenses of $4.4 million. No payments were made to our directors or officers or their associates, holders of 10% or more of any class of our equity securities or any affiliates. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Jefferies LLC and RBC Capital Markets, LLC acted as book-running managers and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Canaccord Genuity Inc. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. acted as co-managers (collectively, the Underwriters) for our initial public offering. Our initial public offering closed in November 2017. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our initial public offering as described in our final prospectus dated November 16, 2017 and filed with the SEC on November 17, 2017 pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2018, we have used $160.0 million of the proceeds from our initial public offering to repay borrowings under our term loan facility and approximately $1.8 million of such proceeds to pay a related prepayment premium. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining net proceeds are held in cash and have not been deployed. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected historical financial data has been derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our selected consolidated financial data may not be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification or ASC 606). ASC 606, the revised standard supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Revenue Recognition (ASC 605) or prior standard and requires the recognition of revenue as promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. ASC 606 also includes Subtopic 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs - Contracts with Customers , which requires deferred recognition of the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer over the life of the customer. Our results of operations presented in the following tables include financial results for reporting periods during 2018, which are disclosed in compliance with the revised standard (ASC 606). We have elected the modified retrospective transition method; therefore, our historical financial results for reporting periods prior to 2018 have not been retroactively restated and are presented in conformity with the amounts previously reported under the prior standard (ASC 605). See Note 3 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our adoption of the revised standard (ASC 606). 43 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) as previously reported (ASC 605) (In thousands, except share and per share data) Total revenue $ 248,920 $ 248,475 $ 186,056 $ 132,412 $ 95,356 Gross profit $ 194,250 $ 193,805 $ 141,466 $ 95,374 $ 66,097 Income (loss) from operations $ 10,913 $ 5,611 $ 9,943 $ 2,729 $ (8,173 ) Net income (loss) $ 3,670 $ (2,333 ) $ (7,592 ) $ (3,173 ) $ (10,807 ) Net income (loss) per share Basic: $ 0.04 $ (0.03 ) $ (0.55 ) $ (0.58 ) $ (0.74 ) Diluted: $ 0.04 $ (0.03 ) $ (0.55 ) $ (0.58 ) $ (0.74 ) Weighted average shares outstanding Basic: 86,495,301 86,495,301 52,339,804 45,933,218 43,929,159 Diluted: 90,002,752 86,495,301 52,339,804 45,933,218 43,929,159 Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: As of December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) (as previously reported ASC 605) (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 70,964 $ 70,964 $ 116,049 $ 18,214 $ 14,896 Working capital, excluding deferred revenue (1) $ 172,045 $ 161,847 $ 172,492 $ 60,047 $ 27,982 Total assets $ 534,434 $ 512,500 $ 506,433 $ 387,410 $ 371,504 Deferred revenue, current and non-current portion $ 114,301 $ 124,187 $ 83,125 $ 55,104 $ 34,888 Long-term debt $ $ $ 68,329 $ 107,344 $ 99,770 Total liabilities $ 156,741 $ 162,570 $ 178,036 $ 177,307 $ 160,465 Redeemable convertible preferred stock $ $ $ $ 223,987 $ 222,898 Total stockholders' equity (deficit) $ 377,693 $ 349,930 $ 328,397 $ (13,884 ) $ (11,859 ) (1) We define working capital as current assets less current liabilities, excluding deferred revenue. 44 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the section titled Selected Financial Data and the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full fiscal year or any other period. Overview SailPoint is the leading provider of enterprise identity governance solutions. Our open identity platform provides organizations with critical visibility into who currently has access to which resources, who should have access to those resources, and how that access is being used. We offer both on-premises software and cloud-based solutions, which empower our customers to efficiently and securely govern the digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners and other users, and manage their constantly changing access rights to enterprise applications and data across hybrid IT environments, whether comprised of on-premises, cloud or mobile applications. We help customers enable their businesses with more agile and innovative IT, enhance their security posture and better meet compliance and regulatory requirements. We believe that our open identity platform is a critical, foundational layer of a modern cyber security strategy that complements and builds upon traditional perimeter- and endpoint-centric security solutions, which on their own are increasingly insufficient to secure organizations, and their applications and data. Our customers include many of the worlds largest and most complex organizations, including commercial enterprises, educational institutions and governments. We were founded by identity industry veterans to develop a new category of identity management solutions and address emerging identity governance challenges. Since our inception, we have focused on driving innovation in the identity market, with our key milestones including: in 2007, we pioneered identity governance through our release of IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution; in 2010, we revolutionized provisioning by integrating it with IdentityIQ into a single solution; in 2013, we introduced our cloud-based identity governance solution, IdentityNow; in 2015, we extended identity governance by adding our identity governance for data stored in files solution, SecurityIQ (now referred as the data access manager module within IdentityIQ), which manages user access to unstructured data, a rapidly growing area of risk; and in 2017, we further extended identity governance with the introduction of our advanced identity analytics solution, IdentityAI, which is designed to use machine learning technologies to enable rapid detection of security threats before they turn into security breaches. Our solutions address the complex needs of global enterprises and mid-market organizations. As of December 31, 2018, 1,173 customers across a wide variety of industries were using our products to enable and secure digital identities across the globe. No single customer represented more than 10% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our revenue was $248.9 million, $186.1 million and $132.4 million, respectively. Purchase accounting adjustments related to the Acquisition (defined herein) reduced our revenue by $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The impact of the Acquisition to revenue was not material for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net income was $3.7 million as compared to our net loss of $7.6 million and $3.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our net cash provided by operations was $37.5 million, $21.9 million and $6.5 million, respectively. 45 Our success is principally dependent on our ability to deliver compelling solutions to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Delivering these solutions is challenging because our customers have large, complex IT environments, often rely on both legacy and innovative technologies, and deploy differen t business models, including on- premise s and cloud solutions. Rising security threats and evolving regulations and compliance standards for cyber security, data protection, privacy and internal IT controls create new opportunities for our industry and require us to adapt our solutions to be successful. Our ability to continue to maintain our historical growth rates is also challenging because our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our global presence and invest in new vertical markets, while competing against much larger companies with more recognizable brands and financial resources. Although we seek to grow rapidly, we also focus on delivering positive net cash from operations while continuing to invest in our platform and to deliver innovative solutions to our customers. Additionally, our gross margins vary depending on the type of solution we sell, and a shift in the mix of our solutions could affect our performance relative to historical results. Our Business Model We deliver an integrated set of solutions that supports all aspects of identity governance, including provisioning, access request, compliance controls, password management and identity governance for data stored in files. Our solutions are built on an open identity platform, which offers connectivity to a variety of security and operational IT applications, extending the reach of our identity governance processes and enabling effective identity governance controls across customer environments. Our set of solutions currently consists of (i) IdentityIQ, our on-premises identity governance solution, (ii) IdentityNow, our cloud-based, multi-tenant governance suite, which is delivered as a subscription service, and (iii) IdentityAI, our cloud-based, multi-tenant advanced identity analytics solution, which is delivered as a subscription service. See Part I, Item 1. BusinessProducts for more information regarding our solutions. For our IdentityIQ solutions, our customers typically purchase a perpetual software license, which includes one year of maintenance. Our maintenance provides software maintenance as well as access to our technical support services during the maintenance term. After the initial maintenance period, customers with perpetual licenses may renew their maintenance agreement for an additional fee. For our cloud-based solutions, IdentityNow and IdentityAI, for a subscription fee, we offer customers access to these solutions and infrastructure support for the duration of their subscription agreement. Our standard subscription agreement for our cloud solution has a duration of three years. Pricing for each of our solutions is dependent on the number of digital identities of employees, contractors, business partners and other users that the customer is entitled to govern with the solution. We also package and price our IdentityIQ, IdentityNow and IdentityAI solutions into modules. Each module has unique functionalities, and our customers are able to purchase one or more modules, depending on their needs. We also offer advanced integration modules for key applications and systems which can be purchased in addition to our base solution modules. They are also priced based on the total number of identities. Thus, our revenue from any customer is generally determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules (for our IdentityIQ and IdentityNow solutions) purchased by the customer. Our go-to-market strategy consists of both direct sales and indirect sales through our partnership network of systems integrators, value-added resellers and adjacent technology vendors. We work closely with systems integrators, many of whom have dedicated SailPoint practices (including Accenture, Deloitte, KPMG, and PwC and most recently EY), with some dating back more than eight years, and resellers (including value-added resellers such as Optiv) to identify potential sales opportunities and help us increase our reach, and we frequently cooperate with systems integrators to make joint sales proposals to address our mutual customers requirements. We also collaborate with leading access management vendors by adding our identity governance capabilities to their access management services (e.g., Okta and VMware). We do not have any material payment obligations to systems integrators, resellers or our technology partners; nor do they have any material payment obligations to us, except that resellers typically purchase solutions directly from us and resell to customers. See Part I, Item 1. BusinessPartnerships and Strategic Relationships for more information regarding our partnership network. In addition to our solutions, we offer professional services to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform a significant majority of all initial and follow-on implementation work for our customers. Most of our consulting services are priced on a time and materials basis; our training services are provided through multiple pricing models, including on a per-person basis (for courses provided at our headquarters and on-site at our customers offices) and a flat-rate basis (for our e-learning course). 46 We devote significant resources to acquire new customers, in both existing and new markets, in order to grow our customer base. In addition, we focus on three distinct opportunities to increase sales to existing customers: (i) expand the number of digital identities; (ii) up-sell additional modules or target storage systems, as applicable, within a single solution; and (iii) cross-sell additional solutions. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by our ability to: Add New Customers Within Existing Markets . Based on data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, we believe that we have penetrated less than 2% of over 65,000 companies in the countries where we have customers today and that as a result, there is significant opportunity to expand our footprint in our existing markets through new, greenfield installations and displacement of our competitors legacy solutions. To do so, we plan to grow our sales organization, increase and leverage our indirect channel partners and enhance our marketing efforts. G enerate Additional Sales to Existing Customers . We believe that our existing customer base provides us with a significant opportunity to drive incremental sales. In most cases, our customers initially purchase a subset of the modules or solutions we offer based on their immediate need. We focus on generating more revenue from the modules that our customers have already purchased from us as our customers grow the number of identities our solutions manage and govern and as our customers deploy our solutions across other business units or geographies within their organizations. Over time, we also identify up-selling and cross-selling opportunities and seek to sell additional modules and solutions to our existing customers. Retain Customers. We believe that our ability to retain our customers is an important component of our growth strategy and reflects the long-term value of our customer relationships. For example, when we add a new customer, we generate new license revenue. If the customer renews, we generate incremental maintenance revenue. As we add new IdentityIQ customers, our high renewal rates result in incremental maintenance revenue. Our key strategies to maintain our high renewal rates include focusing on the quality and reliability of our solutions, customer service and support to ensure our customers receive value from our solutions, providing consistent software upgrades and having dedicated customer success teams. Expand into New Markets . We expect to continue to invest significantly in sales, marketing and customer service, as well as our indirect channel partner network, to expand into new geographies and vertical markets. We believe that our market opportunity is large and growing and that the global cyber security market represents a significant growth opportunity for us. In 2018, we generated only 31% of our revenue outside of the United States. Key Business Metrics In addition to our GAAP financial information such as revenue and net income discussed above, we monitor the following key metrics to help us measure and evaluate the effectiveness of our operations: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) as previously reported (ASC 605) Number of customers 1,173 1,173 933 695 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue 42 % 43 % 38 % 37 % Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) $ 39,480 $ 34,178 $ 25,501 $ 15,135 Number of Customers . We believe that the size of our customer base is an indicator of our market penetration and that our net customer additions are an indicator of the growth of our business and our future revenue opportunity. We define a customer as a distinct entity, division or business unit of an organization that receives support or has the right to use our cloud-based solutions as of the specified measurement date. 47 Subscription Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue . Subscription revenue is a portion of our total revenue and is derived from (i) IdentityNow, our cloud-based solution where customers enter into SaaS subscription agreements with us, and (ii) IdentityIQ maintenance and support agreements, but not licenses. As we generally sell our solutions on a per-identity basis, our subscription revenue for any customer is primarily determined by the number of identities that the customer is entitled to govern as part of a SaaS subscription, and the ongoing price paid per-identity under a maintenance and support agreement or SaaS subscription. Thus, we consider our subscription revenue to be the recurring portion of our revenue base and believe that its continued growth as a percentage of total revenue will lead to a more predictable revenue model and increase our visibility to future period total revenues. Because we recognize our subscription revenue ratably over the duration of those agreements, a portion of the revenue we recognize each period is derived from agreements we entered into in prior periods. In contrast, we typically recognize license revenue upon entering into the applicable license, the timing of which is less predictable and may cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a measure widely used by securities analysts and investors to evaluate the financial performance of our company and other companies. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is an important measure for evaluating our performance because it facilitates comparisons of our core operating results from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (net interest income or expense from our outstanding debt), asset base (depreciation and amortization), tax consequences, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation. In addition, we base certain of our forward-looking estimates and budgets on adjusted EBITDA. See the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information regarding adjusted EBITDA, including the limitations of using adjusted EBITDA as a financial measure, and for a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures to clarify and enhance our understanding of past performance and future prospects. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys operating performance, financial position or cash flow that includes or excludes amounts that are included or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. As discussed below, we monitor the non-GAAP financial measures described below, and we believe they are helpful to investors. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in our industry because they may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently. In addition, there are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and exclude expenses that may have a material impact on our reported financial results. In particular, interest expense, which is excluded from adjusted EBITDA has been and will continue to be a significant recurring expense in our business for the foreseeable future. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge you to review the reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. We exclude stock-based compensation expense because it is non-cash in nature and excluding this expense provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and allows investors the ability to make more meaningful comparisons between our operating results and those of other companies. We also exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, the partial release of the valuation allowance due to acquisition, facility exit costs, and make adjustments related to a financing lease obligation from our non-GAAP financial measures because these are considered by management to be outside of our core operating results. Accordingly, we believe that excluding these expenses provides investors and management with greater visibility to the underlying performance of our business operations and may also facilitate comparison with the results of other companies in our industry. 48 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income (loss) adjusted to exclude income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation and amortization, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation expense. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a measure widely used by securities analysts and investors to evaluate the financial performance of our company and other companies. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is an important measure for evaluating our performance because it facilitates comparisons of our core operating results from period to period by removing the impact of our capital structure (net interest income or expense from our outstanding debt), asset base (depreciation and amortization), tax consequences, purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition and sponsor related costs and stock-based compensation. In addition, we base certain of our forward-looking estimates and budgets on adjusted EBITDA. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) as previously reported (ASC 605) (In thousands) Net income (loss) $ 3,670 $ (2,333 ) $ (7,592 ) $ (3,173 ) Stock-based compensation (1) 19,209 19,209 4,514 568 Amortization of acquired intangibles 8,825 8,825 8,841 9,092 Depreciation 1,911 1,911 1,379 890 Purchase price accounting adjustment 68 68 141 1,373 Acquisition and sponsor related costs 1,142 1,093 Interest expense, net (2) 4,707 4,707 14,783 7,277 Income tax expense (benefit) 1,090 1,791 2,293 (1,985 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 39,480 $ 34,178 $ 25,501 $ 15,135 (1) Stock-based compensation includes employer related payroll taxes. (2) Interest expense includes amortization of debt issuance costs, loss on the modification and extinguishment of debt and prepayment penalty. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures for our unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of operations data for each of the quarters indicated: Three Months Ended 12/31/2018 9/30/2018 6/30/2018 3/31/2018 12/31/2018 9/30/2018 6/30/2018 3/31/2018 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) (In thousands) Net income (loss) $ 5,143 $ 1,808 $ (979 ) $ (2,302 ) $ 5,979 $ 3,302 $ (5,647 ) $ (5,967 ) Stock-based compensation (1) 4,956 4,932 4,182 5,139 4,956 4,932 4,182 5,139 Amortization of acquired intangibles 2,207 2,206 2,206 2,206 2,207 2,206 2,206 2,206 Depreciation 552 493 445 421 552 493 445 421 Purchase price accounting adjustment 18 18 19 13 18 18 19 13 Acquisition and sponsor related costs Interest expense, net (2) 527 202 2,800 1,178 527 202 2,800 1,178 Income tax (benefit) expense 5,177 2,385 (3,742 ) (2,730 ) 380 618 441 352 Adjusted EBITDA $ 18,580 $ 12,044 $ 4,931 $ 3,925 $ 14,619 $ 11,771 $ 4,446 $ 3,342 49 Three months ended 12/31/2017 9/30/2017 6/30/2017 3/31/2017 as previously reported (ASC 605) (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ 5,382 $ (6,387 ) $ (4,304 ) $ (2,283 ) Stock-based compensation (1) 3,970 201 185 158 Amortization of acquired intangibles 2,206 2,207 2,207 2,221 Depreciation 444 385 295 255 Purchase price accounting adjustment 15 16 55 55 Acquisition and sponsor related costs 164 322 328 328 Interest expense, net (2) 5,704 3,726 2,696 2,657 Income tax (benefit) expense (769 ) 2,906 395 (239 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 17,116 $ 3,376 $ 1,857 $ 3,152 (1) Stock-based compensation includes employer related payroll taxes. (2) Interest expense includes amortization of debt issuance costs, loss on the modification and extinguishment of debt and prepayment penalty. Components of Results of Operations Revenue License Revenue. We generate license revenue through the sale of our on-premises software license agreements t o new customers and sales of additional licenses to the existing customers who can purchase additional users for existing licenses or purchase new licenses . Customers may also purchase term license agreements, under which we recognize the license fee upfront. License transactions generally include an amount for first-year maintenance, which we recognize as subscription revenue. We typically recognize license revenue upon delivering the applicable license. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Over time, we will continue to expect license revenue to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue as we continue to focus on increasing our subscription revenue as a key strategic priority. Subscription Revenue. Our subscription revenue consists of fees for (i) ongoing maintenance and support of our licensed solutions and (ii) subscription fees for access to, and related support for, our cloud-based solution. We typically invoice subscription fees in advance, in annual installments, and recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the applicable agreement. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Over time, we expect subscription revenue will increase as a percentage of total revenue as we continue to focus on increasing subscription revenue as a key strategic priority. Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue consists primarily of fees from professional services provided to our customers and partners to configure and optimize the use of our solutions as well as training services related to the configuration and operation of our platform. Most of our professional services are priced on a time and materials basis, and we generally invoice customers monthly as the work is performed. We generally have standalone value for our professional services and recognize revenue as services are performed based on an estimated fair value as a separate unit of accounting. See the section titled Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesRevenue Recognition for more information. Most of our professional services activity is in support of our partners, who perform the significant majority of all initial and follow-on configuration and optimization work for our customers. Over time, we expect our professional services revenue as a percentage of total revenue to decline as we increasingly rely on partners to help our customers deploy our software. Impact of Purchase Accounting. On September 8, 2014, SailPoint Technologies Holdings, Inc. acquired all of the capital stock of SailPoint Technologies, Inc. We refer to this transaction as the Acquisition. As a result of the Acquisition, we applied purchase accounting and a new basis of accounting beginning on the date of the Acquisition. As such, we were required by GAAP to record all assets and liabilities, including deferred revenue and long-lived assets, at fair value as of the effective date of the Acquisition, which in some cases was different than their historical book values. This had the effect of reducing revenue and deferred revenue and increasing cost of revenue from that which would have otherwise been recognized, as described in more detail below. 50 We assessed the fair value of deferred revenue acquired in the Acquisition to be $10.2 million, representing a decrease of $12.6 million from its historical book value. Recognizing deferred revenue at fair value reduces revenue in the periods subsequent to the Acquisition. The impact of the Acquisition to revenue was $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The impact of the Acquisition to revenue was not material for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. The effect of the Acquisition on the deferred costs was not material. Cost of Revenue Cost of License Revenue . Cost of license revenue consists of amortization expense for developed technology acquired in business combinations and third-party royalties. Cost of Subscription Revenue . Cost of subscription revenue consists primarily of employee compensation cost (which consists of salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation), costs of our customer support organization, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels, allocated overhead, amortization expense for developed technology acquired in business combinations and third-party cloud-based hosting costs. Cost of Services and Other Revenue . Cost of services and other revenue consists primarily of employee compensation costs of our professional services and training organizations, travel-related costs, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels and allocated overhead. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. Gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the mix of our license, subscription, and services and other revenue, the costs associated with third-party cloud-based hosting services for our cloud-based subscriptions, and the extent to which we expand our customer support and services organizations. We expect that our overall gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these various factors. Also, we expect our investment in technology to expand the capability of our services, enabling us to improve our gross margin over time. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs, allocated overhead and software and maintenance expenses, which includes cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based solution. We believe that continued investment in our offerings is vital to the growth of our business, and we intend to continue to invest in product development and in SailPoint Labs, our dedicated, stand-alone technology investigation and engineering group, to continue to innovate and offer our customers new solutions and to enhance our existing solutions as our business grows. See Part I, Item 1. BusinessResearch and Development for more information. We expect such investment to increase on a dollar basis as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs for corporate personnel, such as those in our executive, human resources, facilities, accounting and finance and information technology departments. In addition, general and administrative expenses include third-party professional fees and sponsor-related costs, as well as all other supporting corporate expenses not allocated to other departments. Our general and administrative expenses increase on a dollar basis as our business grows. Also, we have incurred increased general and administrative expenses as a result of becoming a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations and professional services. 51 Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs, sales commissions, costs of general marketing and promotional activities, travel-related expenses and allocated overhead. Under the revised standard, s ales commissions earned by our sales force and the related payroll taxes, a primary component of deferred contract acquisition costs , which are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we have determined to be generally five years . U nder the prior standard , the Company generally capitalized deferred contract costs associated with subscription revenues, which were subsequently amortized over the term of the subscription while deferred contract cost related to license revenues were previously recognized as incurred. We expect to continue to invest in our sales force for expansion to new geographic and vertical markets. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase on a dollar basis and continue to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. See Note 3 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our adoption of the revised standard (ASC 606). Allocated Overhead. We allocate shared costs, such as facilities costs (including rent and utilities), information technology costs and recruiting costs, to all departments based on headcount. As such, allocated shared costs are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and foreign currency transaction gains and losses related to the impact of transactions denominated in a foreign currency. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased and we expect this to continue. Interest expense, net of interest income, consists primarily of interest on our term loan facility, amortization of debt issuance costs, loss on the modification and extinguishment of debt and prepayment penalties. Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Our provision for income taxes consists of U.S. and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Our income tax rate varies from the federal statutory rate due to foreign withholding taxes; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes; unanticipated changes in tax rates; differences in accounting and tax treatment of our stock-based compensation and the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions. We expect this fluctuation in income tax rates, as well as its potential impact on our results of operations, to continue. 52 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 with adoption (ASC 606) Impact of adoption without adoption (ASC 605) as previously reported (ASC 605) (In thousands) Revenue Licenses $ 105,000 $ 3,307 $ 101,693 $ 79,209 $ 54,395 Subscription 104,033 (2,499 ) 106,532 71,007 49,364 Services and other 39,887 (363 ) 40,250 35,840 28,653 Total revenue 248,920 445 248,475 186,056 132,412 Cost of revenue Licenses 4,634 4,634 4,561 4,278 Subscription (1) 20,734 20,734 16,406 13,051 Services and other (1) 29,302 29,302 23,623 19,709 Total cost of revenue 54,670 54,670 44,590 37,038 Gross profit 194,250 445 193,805 141,466 95,374 Operating expenses Research and development (1) 43,154 43,154 33,331 24,358 General and administrative (1) 34,781 34,781 17,678 9,680 Sales and marketing (1) 105,402 (4,857 ) 110,259 80,514 58,607 Total operating expenses 183,337 (4,857 ) 188,194 131,523 92,645 Income from operations 10,913 5,302 5,611 9,943 2,729 Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (4,707 ) (4,707 ) (14,783 ) (7,277 ) Other, net (1,446 ) (1,446 ) (459 ) (610 ) Total other expense, net (6,153 ) (6,153 ) (15,242 ) (7,887 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 4,760 5,302 (542 ) (5,299 ) (5,158 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (1,090 ) 701 (1,791 ) (2,293 ) 1,985 Net income (loss) $ 3,670 $ 6,003 $ (2,333 ) $ (7,592 ) $ (3,173 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (In thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 945 $ 133 $ 34 Cost of revenue - services and other 1,504 458 63 Research and development 3,026 658 118 General and administrative 7,798 2,062 96 Sales and marketing 5,702 1,203 257 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 18,975 $ 4,514 $ 568 53 The following table sets forth the consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) as previously reported (ASC 605) Revenue Licenses 42 % 41 % 43 % 41 % Subscription 42 43 38 37 Services and other 16 16 19 22 Total revenue 100 100 100 100 Cost of revenue Licenses 2 2 2 3 Subscription 8 8 9 10 Services and other 12 12 13 15 Total cost of revenue 22 22 24 28 Gross profit 78 78 76 72 Operating expenses Research and development 17 17 18 18 General and administrative 14 14 10 7 Sales and marketing 42 44 43 45 Total operating expenses 73 75 71 70 Income from operations 5 3 5 2 Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (2 ) (2 ) (8 ) (5 ) Other, net (1 ) (1 ) 0 0 Total other expense, net (3 ) (3 ) (8 ) (5 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 2 0 (3 ) (3 ) Income tax (expense) benefit 0 (1 ) (1 ) 1 Net income (loss) 2 % (1 )% (4 )% (2 )% Impact of ASC 606 on the Comparability of Our Results of Operations Our results of operations presented in the following tables include financial results for reporting periods during 2018, which are disclosed in compliance with the revised standard (ASC 606). We have elected the modified retrospective transition method; therefore, our historical financial results for reporting periods prior to 2018 have not been retroactively restated and are presented in conformity with the amounts previously reported under the prior revenue standard (ASC 605). See Note 3 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our adoption of the revised standard (ASC 606). 54 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2018 to 2017 $ and % variance 2018 to 2017 $ and % variance with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue: Licenses $ 105,000 $ 101,693 $ 79,209 $ 25,791 33% $ 22,484 28% Subscription 104,033 106,532 71,007 33,026 47% 35,525 50% Services and other 39,887 40,250 35,840 4,047 11% 4,410 12% Total revenue $ 248,920 $ 248,475 $ 186,056 $ 62,864 34% $ 62,419 34% License Revenue. ASC 605 license revenue increased by $22.5 million, or 28%, for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to increased demand for our products and services from new and existing customers. The revised standard impacts the timing of revenue recognition related to our term license. Prior to our adoption of the revised standard, we historically recognized revenue under ASC 605 related to term license agreements ratably over the license term as license revenues. Under the revised standard, revenue allocable to the license portion of the arrangement is recognized in license revenues upon delivery of the license, while revenues allocated to maintenance are recognized ratably as subscription revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2018, total ASC 605 revenue from new customers was $60.4 million and license revenue from existing customers was $41.3 million. See Note 3 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our adoption of the revised standard (ASC 606). ASC 606 license revenue increased by $25.8 million, or 33%, for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. License revenue from new customers was greater than license revenue from existing customers for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in total license revenue was attributable to both increases in license sales to our new customers as well as follow-on sales to our existing customers. During the year ended December 31, 2018, revenue from new customers was $67.2 million and license revenue from existing customers was $37.8 million. Our revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased. Subscription Revenue. ASC 605 subscription revenue increased by $35.5 million, or 50%, for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to increase in ongoing maintenance revenue from our increased installed base. Approximately 90% of growth in year over year revenue was attributable to existing customers. ASC 606 subscription revenue increased by $33.0 million, or 47%, for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in ongoing maintenance renewals derived from our existing customers. Revenue from existing customers accounted for 88% of total subscription revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018. Our customer base increased by 240, or 26%, from 933 customers at December 31, 2017 to 1,173 customers at December 31, 2018. Services and Other Revenue. ASC 605 service and other revenue increased by $4.4 million, or 12% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. ASC 606 services and other revenue increased by $4.0 million, or 11%, for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase is primarily a result of an increase in the number of customers using our consulting and training services. 55 Geographic Regions . Our operations in the United States contributed the largest portion of our revenue in each year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 because of our larger and more established sales force and partner network in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue from Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and the rest of the world also increased for years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 , primarily due to our investment in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. The following table sets forth, for each of the periods presented, our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) as previously reported (ASC 605) $ % of revenue $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 171,497 69 % $ 169,927 68 % $ 134,676 72 % EMEA (1) 49,871 20 % 49,854 20 % 33,097 18 % Rest of the World (1) 27,552 11 % 28,694 12 % 18,283 10 % Total revenue $ 248,920 100 % $ 248,475 100 % $ 186,056 100 % (1) No single country represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2018 to 2017 $ and % variance 2018 to 2017 $ and % variance with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit: Licenses $ 100,366 $ 97,059 $ 74,648 $ 25,718 34% $ 22,411 30% Subscription 83,299 85,798 54,601 28,698 53% 31,197 57% Services and other 10,585 10,948 12,217 (1,632 ) (13)% (1,269 ) (10)% Total gross profit $ 194,250 $ 193,805 $ 141,466 $ 52,784 37% $ 52,339 37% Gross margin: Licenses 96 % 95 % 94 % Subscription 80 % 81 % 77 % Services and other 27 % 27 % 34 % Total gross margin 78 % 78 % 76 % Licenses. ASC 606 license gross profit increased by $25.7 million, or 34%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was the result of increased license revenues with only minor increases in third-party royalties. ASC 605 license gross profit increased by $22.4 million, or 30%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to increase in license revenue as the adoption of ASC 606 did not have any impact on cost of license revenues . Subscription. ASC 605 subscription gross profit increased by $31.2 million, or 57%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Cost of subscription revenues under ASC 605 did not differ from cost of subscription revenues under ASC 606 during the year ended December 31, 2018 . 56 ASC 606 s ubscription gross profit increased by $ 28.7 million, or 53 %, during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 . The increase was the result of growth in subscription revenue, coupled with an increase in corresponding costs of subscription revenue at a rate lower than our revenue growth as we continue to build economies of scale within our customer support organization and our utilization of cloud-based hosting services. Approximately $ 1.2 million of the increase in cost of subscription revenue was due to increase d cloud-based hosting costs for our cloud-based solution. Substantially all of the remaining year-over-year increase in cost of subscription revenue was due to increases in headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support the growth of our subscription cloud-based offering and ongoing maintenance for our expanding licensed customer base. Services and Other . ASC 606 services and other gross profit decreased by $1.6 million, or 13%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. This decrease was primarily attributable to the higher costs associated with expanding our infrastructure for our professional services and training organization to support an increasing number of customers for the year ended December 31, 2018. ASC 605 services and other gross profit decreased by $1.3 million, or 10%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Cost of services and other revenues under ASC 605 did not differ from cost of services and other revenues under ASC 606 during the year ended December 31, 2018 . Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2018 to 2017 $ and % variance 2018 to 2017 $ and % variance with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) (In thousands, except percentages) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 43,154 $ 43,154 $ 33,331 $ 9,823 29% $ 9,823 29% General and administrative 34,781 34,781 17,678 17,103 97% 17,103 97% Sales and marketing 105,402 110,259 80,514 24,888 31% 29,745 37% Total operating expenses $ 183,337 $ 188,194 $ 131,523 $ 51,814 39% $ 56,671 43% Research and Development Expenses. Adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $9.8 million, or 29%, for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Approximately 81% of the increase was the result of an increase in headcount, and related allocated overhead, to optimize and expand our product offerings as well as pursue innovation in identity governance. Substantially all of the remaining increase in research and development expenses was the result of increased software and maintenance expenses, primarily cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based offering. General and Administrative Expenses. Adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on general and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $17.1 million, or 97%, for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Approximately 62% of the increase was the result of an increase in corporate headcount and related allocated overhead, to support the growth and scale of the business. In 2018, general and administrative expenses also increased by $6.3 million, or 37%, as a result of increased professional services expenses comprised of legal, accounting and consulting fees. Sales and Marketing Expenses. ASC 606 sales and marketing expenses were $105.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to ASC 605 sales and marketing expenses of $110.3 million. The difference of $4.9 million relates to the net impact of the deferral and subsequent amortization of contract acquisition cost under ASC 606. 57 ASC 606 s ales and marketing expenses increased by $ 24.9 million, or 3 1 %, for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 . Approximately $ 18.3 million, or 73 %, of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount and related allocated overhead, to support increased penetration into our existing customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. During the year ended December 31, 2018, a s our headcount increased, we also experienced year - over - year increases in travel costs of $ 2.4 million . A dvertising costs also increased by $ 1.4 million, for the year ended December 31, 201 8 . We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 and elected the modified retrospective transition method which included the capitalization and amortization of incremental costs of obtaining contracts. For the ye a r ended December 31, 2018, deferred contract acquisition cost s were $4.9 million lower than they would have been under the prior standard . See Note 3 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our adoption of the revised standard (ASC 606). Interest Expense, Net Adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on interest expense, net of interest income, Interest expense, net decreased by $10.1 million, or 68%, for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2018, we had no debt balances outstanding. Our interest expense decreased as a result of paying down our debt; please refer to the discussion of our credit facility below. This decrease was partially offset by approximately a $1.8 million loss on the resulting modification and subsequent extinguishment of our debt, inclusive of $0.4 million of cash prepayment penalties. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2017 (1) 2016 (1) variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue: Licenses $ 79,209 $ 54,395 $ 24,814 46 % Subscription 71,007 49,364 21,643 44 % Services and other 35,840 28,653 7,187 25 % Total revenue $ 186,056 $ 132,412 $ 53,644 41 % (1) The comparative information for years prior to 2018 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised standard and is reported on an ASC 605 basis. For additional information see Note 3 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. License Revenue. License revenue increased by $24.8 million, or 46%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Although license revenue from new customers was greater than license revenue from existing customers for December 31, 2017 and 2016, the increase in total license revenue was primarily attributable to follow-on sales to our existing customers. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 revenue from new customers was $48.4 million and $42.2 million and license revenue from existing customers was $30.8 million and $12.2 million, respectively. Our revenue from any single customer is determined by the number of identities the customer is entitled to govern as well as the number of modules and solutions purchased. Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue increased by $21.6 million, or 44%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in ongoing maintenance renewals and an increase in maintenance revenue derived from new licenses. Our customer base increased by 238, or 34%, from 695 customers at December 31, 2016 to 933 customers at December 31, 2017. Approximately $1.2 million of the increase in subscription revenue is the result of a decrease in the purchase accounting write down of deferred revenue subsequent to the Acquisition. 58 Services and Other Revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $7.2 million, or 25%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase is primarily a result of an increase in the number of customers using our consulting and training services. Geographic Regions . Our operations in the United States were responsible for the largest portion of our revenue in each year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 because of our larger and more established sales force and partner network in the United States as compared to our other regions. Revenue from both Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and the rest of the world also increased for years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, primarily due to our investment in increasing the size of our international sales force and strengthening partnerships with global system integrators and resellers worldwide. The following table sets forth, for each of the periods presented, our consolidated total revenue by geography and the respective percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2017 (1) 2016 (1) $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (In thousands, except percentages) United States $ 134,676 72 % $ 92,116 70 % EMEA (2) 33,097 18 % 25,668 19 % Rest of the World (2) 18,283 10 % 14,628 11 % Total revenue $ 186,056 100 % $ 132,412 100 % (1) The comparative information for years prior to 2018 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised standard and is reported on an ASC 605 basis. For additional information see Note 3 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. (2) No single country represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2017 (1) 2016 (1) variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit: Licenses $ 74,648 $ 50,117 $ 24,531 49 % Subscription 54,601 36,313 18,288 50 % Services and other 12,217 8,944 3,273 37 % Total gross profit $ 141,466 $ 95,374 $ 46,092 48 % Gross margin: Licenses 94 % 92 % Subscription 77 % 74 % Services and other 34 % 31 % Total gross margin 76 % 72 % (1) The comparative information for years prior to 2018 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised standard and is reported on an ASC 605 basis. For additional information see Note 3 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Licenses. License gross profit increased by $24.5 million, or 49%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was the result of increased license revenues with only minor increases in third party royalties. 59 Subscription. Subscription gross profit increased by $18.3 million, or 50%, during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was the result of growth in subscription revenue, as described above, coupled with growth in costs of subscription revenue at a rate lower than our revenue growth as we continue to build economies of scale within our customer support organization and our utilization of cloud-based hosting services. Services and Other. Services and other gross profit increased by $3.3 million, or 37%, during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase was the result of the volume and mix of services provided in the period yielding a higher price per hour as well as the headcount required to provide such professional services increasing at a slower rate as we continue to build economies of scale within our professional services and training organization. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2017 (1) 2016 (1) variance $ variance % (In thousands, except percentages) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 33,331 $ 24,358 $ 8,973 37 % General and administrative 17,678 9,680 7,998 83 % Sales and marketing 80,514 58,607 21,907 37 % Total operating expenses $ 131,523 $ 92,645 $ 38,878 42 % (1) The comparative information for years prior to 2018 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised standard and is reported on an ASC 605 basis. For additional information see Note 3 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $9.0 million, or 37%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Approximately 81% of this increase was the result of an increase in headcount, and related allocated overhead, to optimize and expand our product offerings as well as pursue innovation in identity governance. Substantially all of the remaining increase in research and development expenses was the result of increased software and maintenance expenses, primarily cloud-based hosting costs related to the development of our cloud-based offering. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $8.0 million, or 83%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Approximately 77% of the increase was the result of an increase in corporate headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support the growth and scale of the business. In 2017, approximately $2.0 million of increase was related to stock-based compensation expense compared to 2016. Additionally, general and administrative expenses increased as a result of increase in professional services expenses comprised of legal, accounting and consulting fees. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $21.9 million, or 37%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Approximately $17.4 million, or 80%, of the increase was the result of our increased sales and marketing headcount, and related allocated overhead, to support increased penetration into our existing customer base as well as expansion into new industry verticals and geographic markets. As our headcount increased, we also experienced related increases in travel and advertising costs of $1.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Substantially all of the remaining increase in sales and marketing expenses was the result of increased partner commissions and consulting costs. 60 Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income, increased by $7.3 million, or 93%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. These increases were the result of our entry into a new credit facility, effective in August 2016, which increased the stated interest rate from 3.7% to 9.0%, as well as our amendment in June of 2017, which increased the term loan principal by $50 million. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2017, we paid down $90.0 million of our debt resulting in approximately $1.4 million of cash prepayment penalties and $1.7 million in a non-cash loss on the resulting modification and partial extinguishment of our debt. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) The following table sets forth selected summarized unaudited quarterly financial information for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. The information for each quarter has been prepared on a basis consistent with our audited consolidated financial statements, and reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature that are necessary for a fair presentation of the financial information contained in those statements. The following quarterly financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2018: Three Months Ended 12/31/2018 9/30/2018 6/30/2018 3/31/2018 12/31/2018 9/30/2018 6/30/2018 3/31/2018 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) (In thousands, except share and per share data) Total revenue $ 80,588 $ 65,735 $ 53,656 $ 48,941 $ 77,782 $ 66,419 $ 54,560 $ 49,714 Gross profit $ 66,078 $ 51,721 $ 40,280 $ 36,171 $ 63,272 $ 52,405 $ 41,184 $ 36,944 Income (loss) from operations $ 11,189 $ 4,783 $ (1,352 ) $ (3,707 ) $ 7,228 $ 4,510 $ (1,837 ) $ (4,290 ) Net income (loss) $ 5,143 $ 1,808 $ (979 ) $ (2,302 ) $ 5,979 $ 3,302 $ (5,647 ) $ (5,967 ) Net income (loss) per share Basic: $ 0.06 $ 0.02 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.03 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.04 $ (0.07 ) $ (0.07 ) Diluted: $ 0.06 $ 0.02 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.03 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.04 $ (0.07 ) $ (0.07 ) Weighted average shares outstanding Basic: 87,171,161 86,825,168 86,246,056 85,719,240 87,171,161 86,825,168 86,246,056 85,719,240 Diluted: 90,234,993 90,355,212 86,246,056 85,719,240 90,234,993 90,355,212 86,246,056 85,719,240 2017: Three months ended 12/31/2017 9/30/2017 6/30/2017 3/31/2017 as previously reported (ASC 605) (in thousands, except share and per share data) Total revenue $ 67,768 $ 43,562 $ 39,260 $ 35,466 Gross profit $ 55,086 $ 32,484 $ 28,565 $ 25,331 Income (loss) from operations $ 10,520 $ 407 $ (1,183 ) $ 199 Net income (loss) $ 5,382 $ (6,387 ) $ (4,304 ) $ (2,283 ) Net income (loss) per share Basic: $ 0.03 $ (0.24 ) $ (0.22 ) $ (0.18 ) Diluted: $ 0.03 $ (0.24 ) $ (0.22 ) $ (0.18 ) Weighted average shares outstanding Basic: 65,870,258 48,219,826 47,930,190 47,208,477 Diluted: 69,166,069 48,219,826 47,930,190 47,208,477 61 Seasonality and Quarterly Trends Our quarterly results reflect seasonality in the sale of our products and services. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. Our quarterly total revenue increased sequentially within each calendar year presented; however, we experienced a decline sequentially from the fourth quarter of each year to the first quarter of the subsequent year due to increased customer purchasing activity in each fourth quarter due to customer budget and purchasing trends . We continue to experience growth in revenue when comparing similar periods year over year as a result of our ability to attract new customers and expand our product offerings within our existing customer base. Our operating expenses have generally increased sequentially as a result of our growth and are primarily related to increases in personnel-related costs to support our expanded operations and our continued investment in our platform infrastructure and service capabilities. Also, general and administrative expenses have increased as a result of being a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations and professional services. Quarterly Key Business Metrics Three Months Ended 12/31/2018 9/30/2018 6/30/2018 3/31/2018 12/31/2017 9/30/2017 6/30/2017 3/31/2017 Number of customers 1,173 1,090 1,031 984 933 829 776 725 Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue (1) 37 % 42 % 45 % 46 % 31 % 42 % 42 % 42 % Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) (ASC 606) (1) $ 18,580 $ 12,044 $ 4,931 $ 3,925 NA NA NA NA Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) (ASC 605) $ 14,619 $ 11,771 $ 4,446 $ 3,342 $ 17,116 $ 3,376 $ 1,857 $ 3,152 (1) The comparative information for years prior to 2018 has not been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the revised standard and is reported on an ASC 605 basis. For additional information see Note 3 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Our number of customers increased sequentially as of December 31, 2018 to 1,173 from 725 as of March 31, 2017. Our growth in customer count was driven by increased demand of our products and market acceptance of our subscription services as well as an increased presence of our product offerings across all of our geographies. The growth in our sales of product and services was consistent with our plans to continue expanding our global presence, through our channel partner network which allows us to target new customers while continuing to support our existing customers. Our quarterly subscription revenue increased in each period presented primarily due to increases in maintenance renewals as a result of our expanding licensed customer base. Subscription revenue as a percentage of total revenue experienced a decline sequentially in fourth quarter of each year due to composition of revenue mix between license and subscription as well as timing of sales volume. For additional information see Seasonality and quarterly trend discussion above. Sales of subscriptions to our platform also continue to grow as a result of the expanding breadth and functionality of our platform, increasing brand awareness, and the success of our sales efforts with new and existing customers. We recognize revenue from maintenance and subscription fees ratably over the term of the contract period; therefore, changes in our sales activity in a period may not be as apparent as a change to our revenue until future periods. 62 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2018, we had $71.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which, $3.4 million of cash and cash equivalents were held in our foreign subsidiaries. We do not consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of India, to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. Prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company had consistently applied Section 956 to its intercompany cash flows. Under the Act, beginning in 2018, global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions apply providing an incremental tax on low taxed foreign income. The GILTI provisions require the Company to include in its U.S. income tax return foreign subsidiary earnings in excess of an allowable return on the foreign subsidiarys tangible assets. As a result of applying these provisions, the majority of the earnings in our foreign subsidiaries represent income that was previously taxed in the United States. As a result, there would be no material income tax consequences to repatriating the cash currently held in our foreign subsidiaries. In India, we continue to invest and grow our research and development activities and have no plans to repatriate undistributed earning held in India back to the U.S. parent company, and therefore consider earnings in India to be permanently reinvested. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, any positive cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our credit agreement will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new solutions and product enhancements. To the extent existing cash and cash equivalents are not sufficient to fund future activities, we may seek to raise additional funds through equity, equity-linked or debt financings. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may enter into agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. Also, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through license fees, maintenance fees, subscription fees, consulting and training fees, borrowings under our prior credit agreement and, to a lesser degree, the sale of equity securities. Our principal uses of cash are funding operations and capital expenditures. Over the past several years, revenue has increased significantly from year to year and, as a result, cash flows from customer collections have increased. However, operating expenses have also increased as we have invested in growing our business. Our operating cash requirements may increase in the future as we continue to invest in the strategic growth of our company. Credit Agreement On March 11, 2019, we, SailPoint Technologies, Inc., as borrower, and certain of our other wholly owned subsidiaries entered into a credit agreement with the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner, and Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of America, N.A., as co-documentation agents. Our credit agreement provides for an initial $150 million in commitments for revolving credit loans, with a $15 million letter of credit sublimit, which amount can be increased or decreased under specified circumstances. As of March 11,2019, we had no outstanding revolving credit loans. In addition, our credit agreement provides for the ability to incur uncommitted term loan facilities if, among other things, the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement), calculated giving pro forma effect to the requested term loan facility, is no greater than 3.50 to 1.00. Borrowings under our credit agreement are scheduled to mature in March 2024. Any borrowing under our credit agreement may be repaid, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time without premium or penalty other than customary breakage costs, and any amounts repaid may be reborrowed. The interest rates applicable to revolving credit loans under our credit agreement are, at the borrowers option, either (i) a base rate, which is equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in our credit agreement), (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus 1/2 of 1%, and (c) the one-month Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined in our credit agreement) plus 1%, in each case, plus an interest margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75% based on the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio, or (ii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus an interest margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75% based on the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio. The Adjusted LIBO Rate cannot be less than zero. The borrower will pay an unused commitment fee during the term of our credit agreement ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% per annum based on the Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio. 63 We were previously party to a credit and guaranty agreement by and among SailPoint Technologies, Inc., as the borrower, and SailPoint Technologies Intermediate Holdings, LLC and SailPoint International, Inc., as guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent and collateral agent, (as amended, the prior credit agreement), which provided for a term loan facility and a revolving credit facility with a letter of credit sub-facility . As of December 31, 2017, the balance outstanding under the term loan facility was $70.0 million, and our revolving credit facility had a face value of $7.5 million (under which we had no outstanding borrowings and $6.0 million outstanding under a letter of credit facility . The term loan facility and the revolving credit facility both had interest based on the adjusted LIBOR rate, as defined in the prior credit agreement, with a 1% floor plus an applicable margin of 4.5%. The term loan facility and revolving credit facility had a stated maturity of August 16, 2021. On June 29, 2018, we voluntarily prepaid $60.0 million of the borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility to reduce the aggregate outstanding principal balance to $10.0 million. On November 29, 2018, we repaid the remaining balance of $10.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility, cancelled the $6.0 million standby letter of credit (the prior letter of credit) and terminated the prior credit agreement. To replace the prior letter of credit, in November 2018, on behalf of the Company, U.S. Bank National Association issued an irrevocable, cash collateralized, unconditional standby letter of credit in an aggregate amount of $6.0 million under the Companys corporate headquarters lease. See Item 2 Properties for more information regarding our new corporate headquarters lease. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 with adoption (ASC 606) without adoption (ASC 605) as previously reported (ASC 605) (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 37,540 $ 37,540 $ 21,856 $ 6,540 Net cash used in investing activities (10,856 ) (10,856 ) (2,521 ) (1,255 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (65,575 ) (65,575 ) 78,520 (1,962 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (38,891 ) $ (38,891 ) $ 97,855 $ 3,323 Cash Flows from Operating Activities During 2018, cash provided by operating activities was $37.5 million, which consisted of ASC 606 net income of $3.7 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $40.5 million and a net change of $6.7 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $10.7 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.2 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $7.8 million, losses on modification and subsequent extinguishment of debt of $1.8 million, bad debt expense of $2.3 million, stock-based compensation of $19.0 million and partially offset by a reduction in deferred tax liabilities of $1.3 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in accounts receivable of $31.3 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, an increase in prepayments and other assets of $17.4 million due to deferral of contract acquisition costs, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $0.9 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue of $39.9 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services, an increase in accounts payable of $2.4 million due to timing of cash disbursements and, an increase in income taxes payable of $0.5 million. During 2017, cash provided by operating activities was $21.9 million, which consisted of a net loss of $7.6 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $20.2 million and a net change of $9.2 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $10.2 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.7 million, loss on modification and partial extinguishment of debt of $1.7 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $3.0 million and stock-based compensation of $4.5 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $28.0 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription 64 and support services, an increase in accrued expenses of $10.9 million due primarily to accrual of additional commissions and bonuses, an increase in accounts payable of $1.4 million due to timing of cash disbursements, an increase in income taxes payable of $0.6 million, partially offset by an increase in prepayments and other assets of $ 5 .2 million, and increase in other non-current assets of $2.5 million, and an increase in accounts receivable of $24.1 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers. During 2016, cash provided by operating activities was $6.5 million, which consisted of a net loss of $3.2 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $10.0 million and a net change of $0.3 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges are primarily comprised of depreciation and amortization of $10.0 million, amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.7 million, amortization of contract acquisition costs of $1.3 million, and stock-based compensation of $0.6 million, partially offset by $2.5 million in deferred taxes. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily as a result of an increase in deferred revenue of $20.2 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition primarily for subscription and support services and an increase in accrued expenses of $1.7 million related primarily to commissions on our subscription revenue, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $17.2 million due to the timing of receipts of payments from customers, an increase in prepayments and other assets of $4.9 million due to payments for various services to be rendered in subsequent periods and a decrease in accounts payable of $0.3 million due to timing of cash disbursements. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During 2018, cash used in investing activities was $10.9 million, consisting of $2.5 million in acquisitions of intangibles and $8.4 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales of property and equipment. During 2017, cash used in investing activities was $2.5 million, consisting of $2.7 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $0.2 million in proceeds from sales of property and equipment. During 2016, cash used in investing activities was $1.3 million, consisting of purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During 2018, cash used in financing activities was $65.6 million, consisting of $70.0 million in repayments of debt, $0.4 million in debt prepayment penalties, $0.3 million in vesting of restricted stock units, primarily related to tax payments funded in the form of net issuances for certain executive officers, partially offset by $3.3 million of proceeds from issuance of equity, primarily related to shares issues pursuant to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and $1.8 million of the proceeds from exercise of stock options. During 2017, cash provided by financing activities was $78.5 million, consisting of $172.0 million of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $13.3 million, proceeds from borrowing of $50.0 million, $0.4 million of the proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $90.0 million in repayments of debt, $1.4 million of debt issuance cost, $50.4 million for preferred dividend payments, $1.4 million in debt prepayment and $0.7 million in purchase of equity shares. During 2016, cash used in financing activities was $2.0 million, consisting of $3.1 million in debt issuance costs and $0.2 million for the repurchase of common and preferred stock, partially offset by $1.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred stock. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities, which includes special purposes entities and other structured finance entities. 65 Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018: Payments Due by Period Less Than More than Total 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 49,611 $ 3,112 $ 9,451 $ 9,473 $ 27,575 Contractual commitments, including hosting service agreements (2) 8,713 6,006 2,707 Total $ 58,324 $ 9,118 $ 12,158 $ 9,473 $ 27,575 (1) Consists of future non-cancelable minimum rental payments under operating leases for our offices, primarily our corporate headquarters in Austin. See Item 2 of this Annual Report for more information. (2) Our purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements and therefore not included in the table above. The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without significant penalty are not included in the table above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies associated with revenue recognition, share-based compensation, income taxes and goodwill are the most significant areas involving management's judgments and estimates. Therefore, these are considered to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition Revenue consists of fees for perpetual and term licenses for our software products, post-contract customer support (referred to as maintenance), professional services which includes training, software as a service (SaaS) and other revenue. We derive revenue through the sale of our on-premises software license agreements. We typically recognize license revenue upon delivering the applicable license. We apply judgment regarding contracts with multiple product and service obligations to determine whether each product or service is capable of being a distinct performance obligation in the contract. If products and services are not distinct, they are combined until a single distinct obligation is created. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. We have contracts with customers that may have multiple performance obligations, including some or all of the following, software licenses, maintenance, subscriptions, professional services. 66 Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price (SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately. We use a range to determine SSP based on the selling price of the products and services when sold separately . The SSP range is used to allocate each performance obligation in a contract to the transaction price and to apply a discount that will be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. When we do not have a directly observable SSP for a particular good or service, we estimate SSP by our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration market factors, pricing practices including historical discounting, historical standalone sales of similar products, customer demographics, geographic locations, and the number and types of users within our contracts. The determination of standalone selling price is made by the Companys management. We generally have standalone value for our professional services and recognize revenue as services are performed based on an estimated fair value as a separate performance obligation. We allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract on a relative SSP and recognizes revenue when or as it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a product or service to a customer. We dos not incur shipping and handling for its goods as they are generally delivered to a customer electronically. We do not believe that it currently has any rights to return that would result in a material impact to revenues. The revised standard related to revenue recognition, Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification or ASC 606), had a material impact in our consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 3 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Stock-Based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards, including stock options, restricted stock units, employee stock purchase plans and incentive units, granted based on the estimated fair value of the awards on the date of grant, net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate the grant date fair value, and the resulting stock-based compensation expense, using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The grant date fair value of stock-based awards is expensed on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (generally the vesting period). The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions. Our assumptions are as follows: Expected volatility . As we have been a public company for a limited amount of time and do not have a sufficiently long trading history for our common stock, the expected stock price volatility for our common stock is estimated by taking the average historical price volatility for industry peers over a period equivalent to the expected term of the stock option grants. We intend to continue to consistently apply this process until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own common stock price becomes available. Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the yields of U.S. Treasury securities with maturities similar to the expected term of the options for each option group. Expected dividend yield . We have never declared or paid any cash dividends to common stockholders and do not presently plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we use an expected dividend yield of zero. Expected term . The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. As we do not have sufficient historical experience for determining the expected term of the stock option awards granted, we base our expected term for awards issued to employees or members of our board of directors on the simplified method, which represents the average period from vesting to the expiration of the stock option. 67 In addition to the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, we also estimate a forfeiture rate to calculate the stock-based compensation for our equity awards. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the expected volatility, expected terms and forfeiture rates used for our stock-based compensation calculations on a prospective basis. We analyze the facts and circumstances of each equity instrument to determine if modification accounting is required. This analysis includes a review of factors that influence the probability of vesting. If circumstances arise that have changed the probability that an equity instrument will vest, or other factors have triggered a modification, the revised fair value is calculated, and additional stock-based compensation is recognized over the remaining service period of the modified option. Historically, for all periods prior to our initial public offering, the fair values of the shares of common stock underlying our stock-based awards were estimated on each grant date by our board of directors. In order to determine the fair value of our common stock underlying option grants, our board of directors considered, among other things, enterprise value of comparable public companies evaluated on a quarterly basis and the overall market and economic environment. For stock awards after the completion of our initial public offering, our board of directors determines the fair value of each share of underlying common stock based on the closing price of our common stock as reported on the date of grant. The Company also offers an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) that allows permitted employees to purchase shares by authorizing payroll deductions from 1% to 15% of employees eligible compensation during the semi-annual offering period, with an annual cap of $25,000. Unless an employee has previously withdrawn from the offering, the payroll deductions will be used to purchase shares of common stock after the closing of the offering period at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the closing price of the shares at the opening or closing of the semi-annual offering period, whichever is lower. ESPP purchase rights have an expected volatility that is based on the historical volatility of the common stock of a collection of our peers in the market. The expected term represents the period of time the ESPP purchase rights are expected to be outstanding and approximates the offering period. Income Taxes We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the United States as well as in other tax jurisdictions or countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may be subject to current federal and state income tax in the United States. We account for uncertain tax positions based on those positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We determine if the amount of available support indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. We then measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact our tax provision in our consolidated statements of operations in the period in which such determination is made. As of December 31, 2018, we have a deferred tax liability of approximately $4.1 million. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of net tangible and identified net assets acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives are not be amortized, but rather tested for impairment annually, or more often if and when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We have determined that we operate as one reporting unit and may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount and whether the two-step impairment test on goodwill is required. Goodwill is tested using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test, used 68 to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired, and thus the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test shall be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test, used to measure the amount of impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The loss recognized cannot exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. After a goodwill impairment loss is recognized, the adjusted carrying amount of goodwill shall be its new accounting basis. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference. Goodwill is tested on an annual basis during the fourth quarter, or sooner if an indicator of impairment occurs. The company internally monitors business and market conditions for evidence of triggering events. There were no triggering events for any of the asset types through October 31, 2018 or any material change in business trend s indicating the need for impairment loss. As of October 31, 2018, the Company performed qualitative analysis and concluded impairment for goodwill, including intangibles, was not required. Hence, the first and second step was not required f or 2018. There were no impairments of goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 . The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act ( JOBS) Act Accounting Election We were an emerging growth company (EGC), as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We had elected to take advantage of all of the reduced reporting requirements and exemptions, including the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards, until we are no longer an emerging growth company. Effective July 1, 2018, the Company lost its EGC status which accelerated the requirement of ASC 606 adoption. As a result, the Company adjusted its previously reported consolidated financial statements effective January 1, 2018 in this 10-K report and amendment to previously filed 10-Q reports were not required. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of our recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting standards not yet adopted, see Note 2 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.