Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Management's Discussion and Analysis ($ in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Report and the Annual Report. Except for historical information, the statements in this discussion may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by words such as: "believes," "can," "expect," "likely," "strive," "should," "will" and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding future sales, earnings, return on equity, return on invested capital, cost savings, process improvements, free cash flow, share repurchases, capital expenditures, acquisitions, new products and services, technology licensing activity and other matters. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: (1) successfully completing our proposed merger with Merck KGaA, which is dependent upon and/or may be affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation, the timely receipt of the regulatory approvals required for the transaction ; (2) potential disruption to our business occurring during the period between the announcement of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the transaction; (3) global economic conditions and other factors affecting the creditworthiness of our customers; (4) changes in pricing and the competitive environment and the global demand for the Company's products; (5) changes in foreign currency exchange rates; (6) changes in research funding, including changes in funding of various government agencies including but not limited to the National Institute of Health, and the success of R&D activities; (7) failure of planned sales initiatives in our Research, Applied and SAFC Commercial business units; (8) dependence on uninterrupted manufacturing operations and a global supply chain; (9) changes in the regulatory environment in which the Company operates; (10) changes in worldwide tax rates or tax benefits from domestic and international operations, including the matters described in Note 12 Income Taxes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report; (11) exposure to litigation including product liability claims; (12) the ability to maintain adequate quality standards; (13) reliance on third party package delivery services; (14) an unanticipated increase in interest rates; (15) other changes in the business environment in which the Company operates; (16) acquisitions or divestitures of businesses; (17) the amount of restructuring charges, if any; (18) disruption to our information technology systems, and (19) the outcome of the outstanding matters described in "Other Matters" below and in Note 14 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report and in Note 13 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report. A further discussion of the Company's risk factors can be found in Part II, Item 1A of this Report and Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements made by us in this Report are based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. 14 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with U.S. GAAP with certain non-GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, U.S. GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by other companies in the Company's industry. Whenever the Company uses such non-GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. With approximately 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, management uses currency adjusted sales growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Company's local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, changes due to acquisitions and divestitures. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity in local currency by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates; the result is the defined impact of "changes in foreign currency exchange rates" or "changes in FX." While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur to applicable exchange rates later in 2015 or in any future period. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the large volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as a supplemental measure of how much cash the company generates. Overview Proposed Merger with Merck KGaA On September 22, 2014, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation entered into the Merger Agreement with Merck KGaA. The Merger Agreement, among other things, provides for Merck KGaA to acquire the Company at a price of $140 per share in cash, without interest. The acquisition will be accomplished through the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Merck KGaA. The Merger Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby were unanimously approved by the Board. A special meeting of stockholders of the Company was held on December 5, 2014 whereby stockholders voted upon and approved a proposal to adopt the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement remains subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified closing conditions, including the receipt of certain antitrust and governmental approvals and other customary closing conditions. Other than the costs associated with this Merger Agreement discussed in Note 10 - Other Charges to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, no other effects of the transaction have been recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements. In certain circumstances, upon termination of the Merger Agreement termination fees would be payable. The Company is also subject to restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the consummation of the merger as provided in the Merger Agreement, including, among other things, certain restrictions on capital spending levels, our ability to repurchase shares, increase our dividend, acquire other businesses, sell, transfer or license our assets, amend our organizational documents and incur indebtedness. For additional information related to the Merger Agreement, please refer to our September 22, 2014 Form 8-K. The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement attached as Exhibit 2.1 to the September 22, 2014 Form 8-K. Background The Company is a leading Life Science and Technology company whose biochemical and organic chemical products, kits and services are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostics and high technology manufacturing. Our customers include pharmaceutical and life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and a wide range of industrial companies. We estimate that over 1.4 million scientists and technologists use our products. We operate in 37 countries and have more than 9,400 employees worldwide. The Company is aligned into three market-focused business units that are defined by the customers and markets they serve: Research, Applied and SAFC Commercial. The business units are closely interrelated in their activities and share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, e-commerce infrastructure, purchasing and inventory control. The business units also 15 Table of Contents share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these business units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety and compliance and information technology. A summary of our business units is as follows: Research - Our products and services, which include chemicals, reagents and kits, enable scientists to discover and develop new drugs and materials. This business unit generated 50 percent of the Company's sales for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Applied - Our products and services, which primarily include high quality components and kits, chemical reagents, critical raw materials and certified reference standards, provide customized solutions to and constitute critical components and materials for diagnostic companies, testing laboratories and industrial companies. This business unit generated 26 percent of the Company's sales for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . SAFC Commercial - Our products and services are used by our customers to develop and manufacture product and service solutions for the commercial production of pharma, biopharma and electronics products. Products and services include industrial cell culture media, active pharmaceutical ingredients, intermediates, raw materials, biological testing services and organometallic precursors for LED and semiconductor manufacturing. This business unit generated 24 percent of the Company's sales for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non-profit organizations located in the United States and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, global macro economic conditions and government research funding in the United States, the European Union, Asia Pacific and elsewhere do have some impact on demand for our products and services from certain customers. Strategy The Company's business strategy is designed to drive overall sales and earnings growth while maintaining a return on invested capital at an appropriate premium above the Company's cost of capital. Our key areas of focus address the most significant opportunities and challenges facing the Company, including: Improving Customer Intimacy: To exceed our customers' expectations, we strive to offer the right selection of high quality products and services, to provide superior customer service and support and consistently deliver products that meet published or agreed specifications when and where our customers need them. The continued enhancement of a leading e-commerce platform is a significant part of this approach. Expanding Products and Services: Increasing our geographic coverage, particularly in the APAC region, pursuing new and innovative technologies and expanding our product and service offerings organically and through strategic acquisitions should help us drive continued sales and earnings growth. Accelerating Operational Excellence: Through the optimization of our worldwide footprint, strategic sourcing of our products and materials and driving efficiencies in our distribution networks and operating expenses, we strive to continually improve our productivity and more efficiently leverage our global manufacturing and distribution network. Key Business Trends and Highlights In operating our business and monitoring our performance, we consider a number of performance measures, as well as trends affecting our industry as a whole, which include the following: Industry Consolidation: Competition in the markets we serve remains fragmented with few companies possessing a significant share in any particular market, which allows some participants to continue consolidating specialty, regional and niche players in the industry. The Company plans to continue to explore opportunities to enhance sales growth and increase its market presence through strategic acquisitions while still complying with the terms of the Merger Agreement. Consolidation Among Large Pharmaceutical Companies: Our customers include large pharmaceutical companies, some of which have undertaken significant merger and acquisitions activity or may be considering such actions in the future. The capital spending and research and development funding levels of the merged companies can have a significant impact on the demand for our products. Macroeconomic Concerns Impacting Funding: Uncertainties in the United States, Europe and Asia Pacific around the macroeconomic environment have impacted overall research funding. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations: Since we are a multinational corporation that sells and sources products and services in many different countries, changes in exchange rates have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Due to the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of foreign currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future sales and operating results. 16 Table of Contents Emerging Market Growth: We continue to focus our sales efforts on emerging markets given the faster growth rates in these areas. Increasing E-Commerce Channel Adoption: The internet continues to change the markets we serve in terms of access and exposure to existing and potential customers. Ensuring a strong presence in this channel is critical to our long-term success as it enables us to find innovative ways to meet our customers' information and product selection needs. Worldwide sales of Research and Applied products through the Company's e-commerce channels, including both web-based and EDI platforms, were 49 percent of the Company's total sales of Research and Applied products in both the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Pharmaceutical Partnerships and Outsourcing: We continue to take advantage of the expanded market opportunities brought about by several trends in the Pharmaceutical industry. These include the use of outsourcing partners, a shift towards biological drug development and an increase in industry-academia research partnerships. Highlights of our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were as follows: Sales were $676 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , a decrease of 2 percent compared to the same prior year period. Excluding the changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which lowered sales by 8 percent, sales increased organically by 5 percent compared to the same prior year period. Gross profit margin was 53.0 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2015, an increase from 50.9 percent in the same prior year period. Operating income margin was 25.9 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to 25.3 percent in the same prior year period. Net income was $126 for both the three month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the prior year reduced otherwise reportable net income by $16, but were offset by increased sales volumes and higher selling prices. Diluted net income per share was $1.04 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to $1.05 in the same prior year period. The effective tax rate was 28.0 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to 27.2 percent for the same prior year period. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the prior year reduced otherwise reportable diluted net income per share by $0.13. Net cash provided by operating activities was $153 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , a $19 decrease compared to the same prior year period. Total debt was $300 at March 31, 2015 . Total debt decreased $145 since December 31, 2014 as a result of the repayment of notes payable under our commercial paper program. Results of Operations The following is a summary of our unaudited financial results ($ in millions, except per share amounts): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Sales $ 676 $ 689 Cost of products and services sold 318 338 Gross profit 358 351 Selling, general and administrative expenses 163 160 Research and development expenses 17 16 Other charges 3 1 Operating income 175 174 Interest, net 1 Income before income taxes 175 173 Provision for income taxes 49 47 Net income $ 126 $ 126 Net income per share - Diluted $ 1.04 $ 1.05 17 Table of Contents Sales Sales were $676 in the three months ended March 31, 2015 , a decrease of 2 percent from the same prior year period. The effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by $57 or 8 percent. Acquisitions completed in 2014 increased sales by $8 or 1 percent. Excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of acquisitions, sales increased organically by $36 or 5 percent. The change in sales for each of the Company's business units is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Impact of Changes in FX Impact from Acquisitions Organic Growth Organic Growth % Research $ 335 $ 359 $ (24 ) $ (34 ) $ $ 10 3 % Applied 175 171 4 (14 ) 8 10 6 % SAFC Commercial 166 159 7 (9 ) 16 10 % Total $ 676 $ 689 $ (13 ) $ (57 ) $ 8 $ 36 5 % Research sales were $335 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $359 during the same prior year period. Sales increased organically by $10 or 3 percent compared to the same prior year period. All three segments (Academic/Government/Hospitals, Pharma and Dealers) and all major geographies (Total Americas, EMEA and APAC) contributed to organic sales growth during the quarter. Applied sales were $175 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $171 during the same prior year period. Sales increased organically by $10 or 6 percent compared to the same prior year period. The primary driver of growth was higher sales to customers in the Diagnostic and Testing markets, where our products are used as critical components for diagnostic kits and sales of standards and certified reference materials to clinical testing laboratories. All geographic regions contributed to Applied's overall growth in the period. Additionally, sales increased $8 as a result of our October 31, 2014 acquisition of Cell Marque. SAFC Commercial sales were $166 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $159 during the same prior year period. Sales grew organically by $16 or 10 percent compared to the same prior year period. Organic sales growth was led by double-digit growth in the Life Sciences Services segment and mid-single digit growth in the Life Sciences Products segment. All geographic regions contributed to SAFC Commercial's overall growth in the period. Gross Profit Margin and Expenses Key items from the consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of sales and the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and the same prior year period were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Gross profit margin 53.0 % 50.9 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 24.1 % 23.2 % Research and development expenses 2.6 % 2.3 % Other charges 0.4 % 0.1 % Operating income margin 25.9 % 25.3 % Effective tax rate 28.0 % 27.2 % Cost of Products and Services Sold and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit is calculated as sales less cost of products and services sold and gross profit margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of sales. Cost of products and services sold includes direct materials, labor, distribution and overhead costs 18 Table of Contents associated with the Company's products and services. The company's gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was 53.0% compared to 50.9% in the same prior year period. The following table reflects the significant contributing factors to the net change in gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same prior year period: Three Months Ended March 31, Gross profit margin 2014 50.9 % Increases to gross profit margin: Changes in foreign currency exchange rates (0.1 )% Sales volume/Product mix/Pricing/Other 2.2 % Gross profit margin 2015 53.0 % The increase in gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the same prior year period was primarily the result of cost leverage obtained from higher sales volume and pricing. The overall increase was slightly offset by unfavorable impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. SG&A Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 163 $ 160 Percentage of sales 24.1 % 23.2 % For the three months ended March 31, 2015, SG&A increased by $3 compared to the same prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher compensation expenses and increased amortization of intangibles after the Company's acquisition of Cell Marque on October 31, 2014. R&D Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Research and development expenses $ 17 $ 16 Percentage of sales 2.6 % 2.3 % For the three months ended March 31, 2015, R&D expenses were largely unchanged from the prior year. R&D expenses relate primarily to efforts to add new manufactured products, create and develop new technologies and enhance manufacturing processes. Self-manufactured products currently account for approximately 60 percent of total sales. Other Charges Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Restructuring costs $ $ 1 Costs related to mergers and acquisitions 3 Total other charges $ 3 $ 1 Percentage of sales 0.4 % 0.1 % 19 Table of Contents Restructuring Costs In the third quarter of 2013, the Company committed to a restructuring plan to exit another manufacturing site in Europe. This exit activity impacted approximately 90 employees and further reduced the Company's fixed cost structure. Total restructuring costs were $12, comprised of $9 to reduce the value of the assets impacted by these restructuring activities and $3 of employee termination costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, $1 of these restructuring costs were recognized. Costs Related to Mergers and Acquisitions Third party costs of $3 associated with the pending Merck KGaA merger were incurred during the first quarter of 2015. Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased to 28.0% as compared to 27.2% for the same period of 2014. The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 is primarily attributable to increases in uncertain tax positions which were partially offset by lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited), are summarized in the following table: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 153 $ 172 Investing activities (37 ) (30 ) Financing activities (164 ) (138 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 decreased $19 from the same prior year period. This decrease was primarily related to increased use of cash for inventory and accounts payable and was partially offset by a lower requirement of cash to fund accounts receivable. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased $7 compared to the same prior year period. This increase was primarily related to higher uses of cash for purchases of investment securities. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased $26 compared to the same prior year period. This increase is due to the net repayment of $145 of short-term debt during the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to a net repayment of short-term debt of $33 in the same prior year period. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, strong free cash flow enabled the Company to repay all of its notes payable. The Company did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended March 31, 2015 as a result of the suspension of its share repurchase program due to the pending Merck KGaA transaction, as compared to $85 of share repurchases in the same prior year period. Long-term debt was $300 at both March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 . Consolidated total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, calculated as the sum of total stockholders' equity and total debt, was 8.7 percent at March 31, 2015 and 12.4 percent at December 31, 2014 . For a description of the Company's material credit facilities and debt covenants, see Note 5 Debt to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. 20 Table of Contents Share Repurchases At March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , the Company had repurchased a total of 102 million shares of an authorized repurchase of 110 million shares. This authorization expired in November 2014 and was not extended due to the pending Merck KGaA transaction. There were 120 million shares outstanding as of March 31, 2015 . The Company is currently restricted from repurchasing any additional stock due to the pending Merck KGaA transaction. Liquidity and Risk Management Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company might be unable to meet its financial obligations in a timely manner or fund its business on an ongoing basis. Factors that could cause such risk to arise include a disruption in the securities markets, downgrades in the Company's credit rating or the unavailability of funds. In addition to the Company's cash flows from operations, the Company utilizes commercial paper, short-term multi-currency debt, cash on hand and long-term debt programs as funding sources. The Company also maintains committed bank lines of credit to support its commercial paper borrowings. Downgrades in the Company's credit rating or other limitations on the ability to access short-term financing, including the ability to refinance short-term debt as it becomes due, would increase interest costs and thereby adversely affect profitability. The Company has considered the potential impact of recent trends in the global economic environment on its liquidity and overall financial condition, particularly with respect to the availability of and the Company's access to short-term credit, including the market for commercial paper. Supported by discussions held with the Company's lenders, management does not believe that a significant risk exists of commercial paper or other credit becoming unavailable within the next twelve months. Management believes that the Company's financial condition is such that internal and external resources are sufficient and available to satisfy the Company's requirements for debt service, capital expenditures, selective acquisitions, dividends, funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plan obligations and working capital presently and for the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2015 , the Company had sufficient net worth to allow for borrowing the full capacity under the credit agreement for each facility without any restriction related to compliance with the respective debt covenants. For a description of the Company's material credit facilities and debt covenants, see Note 5 Debt to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. At March 31, 2015 , substantially all of the Company's cash and cash equivalents were held by its subsidiaries outside of the U.S. The Company expects that existing U.S. liquidity or access to capital will be sufficient to fund its U.S. operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities. In addition, the Company expects that existing international liquidity or access to capital will be sufficient to fund its international operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities. The Company earns income globally. The undistributed earnings of our international subsidiaries are considered to be permanently reinvested in international jurisdictions. Although the Company has no immediate need or intentions to distribute any of the funds held outside of the U.S., the Company can provide no assurance that such a need will not arise. If the Company were to remit undistributed earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company may be subject to both U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for international tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to various international jurisdictions. Effective April 1, 2015, the Company entered into an obligation to purchase a minimum of $390 of inventory over five years. 21 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations At March 31, 2015 , the Company had no commercial paper outstanding and long-term borrowings of $300 , representing a decrease in all outstanding debt of $145 since December 31, 2014 . Disclosures regarding additional contractual obligations are included in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report and updated in Note 5 Debt and Note 8 Pension and Post-retirement Benefits to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Other Matters The Company is subject to potential liabilities arising out of present and future lawsuits and claims related to product liability, personal injury, contract, commercial, intellectual property, tax, environmental, employment, compliance and other matters that arise in the ordinary course of business, as well as putative state class action lawsuits arising out of the proposed merger transaction with Merck KGaA. The Company's operations and a number of its products are highly regulated by various governmental agencies around the world and the Company is periodically involved in reviews, investigations and proceedings by governmental agencies. Failure to meet the standards and licensing requirements of these agencies can lead to penalties which can include substantial fines and/or operating restrictions. The Company accrues for potential liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Although the Company believes the amounts reserved are probable and appropriate based on available information, the process of estimating losses involves a considerable degree of judgment by management and the ultimate amounts could vary materially. The Company has self-insured retention limits and has obtained insurance to provide coverage above the self-insured limits for claims made against it, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. At March 31, 2015 , (i) reserves have been provided to cover expected payments for these self-insured amounts, (ii) there were no contingent liabilities that management believes are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity and (iii) there were no material commitments outside of the normal course of business. Material commitments in the normal course of business include notes payable, long-term debt, lease commitments and pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations which are disclosed in Note 7 - Notes Payable, Note 8 - Long-Term Debt, Note 10 - Lease Commitments and Note 16 - Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Plans, respectively, to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report, as updated in Note 5 Debt and Note 8 Pension and Post-retirement Benefits to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. 22 Table of Contents