ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, assumes, may, should, could, would, foresees, forecasts, predicts, targets, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which may consist of, among other things, trend analyses and statements regarding future events, future financial performance, anticipated growth and industry prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and forecasts, as well as the beliefs and assumptions of our management, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including the effect of general economic and market conditions; the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results; our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be the leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms; our service performance and security; the expenses associated with new data centers and third party infrastructure providers; additional data center capacity; real estate and office facilities space; our operating results; new services and product features; our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services, technologies and intellectual property rights; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; our ability to continue to grow and maintain deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to develop our brands; our ability to realize the benefits from strategic partnerships and investments; our reliance on third- party hardware, software and platform providers; the effect of evolving government regulations; the valuation of our deferred tax assets; the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future; the impact of expensing stock options and other equity awards; the sufficiency of our capital resources; factors related to our outstanding convertible notes, revolving credit facility and loan associated with 50 Fremont; compliance with our debt covenants and capital lease obligations; and current and potential litigation involving us. These and other risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report for additional detail regarding factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions, with a focus on customer relationship management, or CRM. We introduced our first CRM solution in February 2000, and we have since expanded our service offerings with new editions, solutions, features and platform capabilities. Our mission is to help our customers transform themselves into customer-centric companies by empowering them to connect with their customers in entirely new ways. Our Customer Success Platform, including sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, community management, analytics, application development, and Internet of Things (IoT) integration and our professional cloud services, provides the next-generation platform of enterprise applications, or apps, and services to enable customer success. We believe that the convergence of cloud, social, mobile, data science and IoT technologies is fundamentally transforming how companies sell, service, market and innovate to connect with their customers. With our service offerings Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Community Cloud, Analytics Cloud, IoT Cloud and App Cloud customers have the tools they need to build a next generation customer success platform. Key elements of our strategy include: strengthening our market-leading solutions; expanding strategic relationships with customers; extending distribution into new and high-growth product categories; expanding our world-class sales organization; reducing customer attrition; building our business in top software markets globally, which includes building partnerships that help add customers; and encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platforms. 35 Table of Contents We believe the factors that will influence our ability to achieve our objectives include: our prospective customers willingness to migrate to enterprise cloud computing services; the availability, performance and security of our service; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved features; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; successful customer adoption and utilization of our service; acceptance of our service in markets where we have few customers; the emergence of additional competitors in our market and improved product offerings by existing and new competitors; the location of new data centers; third-party developers willingness to develop applications on our platforms; our ability to attract new personnel and retain and motivate current personnel; and general economic conditions which could affect our customers ability and willingness to purchase our services, delay the customers purchasing decision or affect attrition rates. To address these factors, we will need to, among other things, continue to add substantial numbers of paying subscriptions, upgrade our customers to fully featured versions or arrangements such as an Enterprise License Agreement, provide high quality technical support to our customers, encourage the development of third-party applications on our platforms and continue to focus on retaining customers at the time of renewal. Our plans to invest for future growth include the continuation of the expansion of our data center capacity, the hiring of additional personnel, particularly in direct sales, other customer-related areas and research and development, the expansion of domestic and international selling and marketing activities, specifically in our top markets, continuing to develop our brands, the addition of distribution channels, the upgrade of our service offerings, the development of new services, the integration of acquired technologies, the expansion of our Marketing Cloud and App Cloud core service offerings, and the additions to our global infrastructure to support our growth. We also regularly evaluate acquisitions or investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our service offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future and we plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in future periods to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. As a result of our aggressive growth plans, specifically our hiring plan and acquisition activities, we have incurred significant expenses from equity awards and amortization of purchased intangibles. As we continue with our growth plan and absent any one-time gains, we may continue to incur similar expenses in the future. Our typical subscription contract term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months, so during any fiscal reporting period only a subset of active subscription contracts is eligible for renewal. We calculate our attrition rate as of the end of each month. Our current attrition rate calculation does not include the Marketing Cloud service offerings. Our attrition rate was between eight and nine percent as of April 30, 2016 . We expect our attrition rate to remain consistent as we continue to expand our enterprise business and invest in customer success and related programs. We expect marketing and sales costs, which were 46 percent and 49 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, to continue to represent a substantial portion of total revenues in the future as we seek to grow our customer base, sell more products to existing customers, and build greater brand awareness. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2017 , for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2017 . Operating Segments We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who in our case is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Over the past few years, we have completed several acquisitions. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the enterprise cloud computing market. While we have offerings in multiple enterprise cloud computing market segments, our business operates in one operating segment because all of our offerings operate on a single platform and are deployed in an identical way, and our chief operating decision maker evaluates our financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents Sources of Revenues We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services and from customers paying for additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fees; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 93 percent of our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . Subscription revenues are driven primarily by the number of paying subscribers, varying service types, the price of our service and renewals. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity (e.g., a company, a distinct business unit of a large corporation, a partnership, etc.) that has entered into a contract to access our enterprise cloud computing services. We define a subscription as a unique user account purchased by a customer for use by its employees or other customer-authorized users, and we refer to each such user as a subscriber. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 . Subscription and support revenues are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contract. The typical subscription and support term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months. Our subscription and support contracts are non-cancelable, though customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we materially fail to perform. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue, or in revenue depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period. Professional services and other revenues consist of fees associated with consulting and implementation services and training. Our consulting and implementation engagements are billed on either a time and materials or fixed fee basis. We also offer a number of training classes on implementing, using and administering our service that are billed on a per person, per class basis. Our typical professional services payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. In determining whether professional services can be accounted for separately from subscription and support revenues, we consider a number of factors, which are described in Critical Accounting EstimatesRevenue Recognition below. 37 Table of Contents Revenue by Cloud Service Offering We are providing the information below on a supplemental basis to give additional insight into the revenue performance of our individual core service offerings. Subscription and support revenues consisted of the following by core service offering (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Variance- Percent Sales Cloud $ 724.6 $ 630.4 15% Service Cloud 540.1 407.7 32% App Cloud and Other 325.9 224.0 45% Marketing Cloud 184.9 143.2 29% Total $ 1,775.5 $ 1,405.3 Subscription and support revenues from the Analytics Cloud, Communities Cloud and IoT Cloud were not significant for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . The IoT cloud was launched in September 2015. Analytics Cloud revenue is included with App Cloud and Other in the table above. Community Cloud revenue is included in either Sales Cloud, Service Cloud or App Cloud and Other revenue depending on the primary service offering purchased. In situations where a customer purchases multiple cloud offerings, such as through an Enterprise License Agreement, we allocate the contract value to each core service offering based on the customers estimated product demand plan and the service that was provided at the inception of the contract. We do not update these allocations based on actual product usage during the term of the contract. We have allocated approximately 13 percent and 10 percent of our total subscription and support revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, based on customers estimated product demand plans and these allocated amounts are included in the table above. Additionally, some of our service offerings have similar features and functions. For example, customers may use the Sales Cloud, the Service Cloud or our App Cloud to record account and contact information, which are similar features across these core service offerings. Depending on a customers actual and projected business requirements, more than one core service offering may satisfy the customers current and future needs. We record revenue based on the individual products ordered by a customer, and not according to the customers business requirements and usage. In addition, as we introduce new features and functions within each offering, and refine our allocation methodology for changes in our business, we do not expect it to be practical to adjust historical revenue results by service offering for comparability. Accordingly, comparisons of revenue performance by core service offering over time may not be meaningful. Our Sales Cloud service offering is our most widely distributed service offering and has historically been the largest contributor of subscription and support revenues. As a result, Sales Cloud has the most international exposure and foreign exchange rate exposure, relative to the other cloud service offerings. Conversely, revenue for Marketing Cloud is primarily derived from the Americas, with little impact from foreign exchange rate movement. Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in annual cycles. Approximately 80 percent of the value of all subscription and support related invoices were issued with annual terms during the three months ended April 30, 2016 in comparison to 75 percent during the same period a year ago. Occasionally, we bill customers for their multi-year contract on a single invoice which results in an increase in noncurrent deferred revenue. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. This may result in an increase in deferred revenue and accounts receivable. There is a disproportionate weighting towards annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, because of this billing activity, our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. The sequential quarterly changes in accounts receivable and the related deferred revenue and operating cash flow during the first quarter of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of the billing activity that occurs for the following quarters as 38 Table of Contents displayed below (in thousands, except unbilled deferred revenue): April 30, 2016 Fiscal 2017 Accounts receivable, net $ 1,192,965 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 4,006,914 Operating cash flow (1) 1,051,062 Unbilled deferred revenue, a non-GAAP measure 7.6 bn April 30, 2015 July 31, 2015 October 31, 2015 January 31, 2016 Fiscal 2016 Accounts receivable, net $ 926,381 $ 1,067,799 $ 1,060,726 $ 2,496,165 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 3,056,820 3,034,991 2,846,510 4,291,553 Operating cash flow (1) 735,081 304,278 162,514 470,208 Unbilled deferred revenue, a non-GAAP measure 6.0 bn 6.2 bn 6.7 bn 7.1 bn April 30, 2014 July 31, 2014 October 31, 2014 January 31, 2015 Fiscal 2015 Accounts receivable, net $ 684,155 $ 834,323 $ 794,590 $ 1,905,506 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 2,324,615 2,352,904 2,223,977 3,321,449 Operating cash flow (1) 482,128 239,078 123,732 336,506 Unbilled deferred revenue, a non-GAAP measure 4.8 bn 5.0 bn 5.4 bn 5.7 bn (1) Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended in the periods stated above. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, we early adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Shared-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09), which addresses among other items, updates to the presentation and treatment of excess tax benefits related to stock based compensation on the Statements of Cash Flows. We have adopted changes to the statement of cash flows on a retrospective basis and have accordingly updated the operating cash flow amounts presented above. Unbilled Deferred Revenue, a Non-GAAP Measure The GAAP deferred revenue balance on our consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Unbilled deferred revenue is a non-GAAP operational measure that represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. Unbilled deferred revenue amounts by quarter are reflected in the table above. Our typical contract length is between 12 and 36 months. We expect that the amount of unbilled deferred revenue will change from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including the specific timing, duration and size of large customer subscription agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, the specific timing of customer renewals, foreign currency fluctuations, the timing of when unbilled deferred revenue is to be recognized as revenue, and changes in customer financial circumstances. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled deferred revenue is typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increases if the agreement is renewed. Low unbilled deferred revenue attributable to a particular subscription agreement is often associated with an impending renewal and may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. Accordingly, we expect that the amount of aggregate unbilled deferred revenue will change from year-to-year depending in part upon the number and dollar amount of subscription agreements at particular stages in their renewal cycle. Such fluctuations are not a reliable indicator of future revenues. Unbilled deferred revenue does not include minimum revenue commitments from indirect sales channels, as we recognize revenue, deferred revenue, and any unbilled deferred revenue upon sell-through to an end user customer. 39 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenues. Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our service and providing support, the costs of data center capacity, depreciation or operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software, allocated overhead, amortization expense associated with capitalized software related to our services and acquired developed technologies and certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology, services and data. We allocate overhead such as information technology infrastructure, rent and occupancy charges based on headcount. Employee benefit costs and taxes are allocated based upon a percentage of total compensation expense. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based expenses, the cost of subcontractors and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenue than for our enterprise cloud computing subscription service due to the direct labor costs and costs of subcontractors. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services. For example, we have invested in additional database software and we plan to increase the capacity that we are able to offer globally through data centers and third party infrastructure providers. As we acquire new businesses and technologies, the amortization expense associated with this activity will be included in cost of revenues. Additionally, as we enter into new contracts with third parties for the use of their technology, services or data, or as our sales volume grows, the fees paid to use such technology or services may increase. The timing of these additional expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in the affected periods. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, the costs of our development and test data center and allocated overhead. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and services, integrating acquired technologies, increasing the functionality and security and enhancing the ease of use of our enterprise cloud computing services. Our proprietary, scalable and secure multi-tenant architecture enables us to provide all of our customers with a service based on a single version of our application. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions, which enables us to have relatively lower research and development expenses as compared to traditional enterprise software companies. We expect that in the future, research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in building the necessary employee and system infrastructure required to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired businesses and technologies. Marketing and Sales. Marketing and sales expenses are our largest cost and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for our sales and marketing staff, including commissions, payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. We plan to continue to invest in marketing and sales by expanding our domestic and international selling and marketing activities, building brand awareness, attracting new customers and sponsoring additional marketing events. The timing of these marketing events, such as our annual and largest event, Dreamforce, will affect our marketing costs in a particular quarter. We expect that in the future, marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest cost. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, professional fees, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that in the future, general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our infrastructure and we incur additional employee related costs, professional fees and insurance costs related to the growth of our business and international expansion. We expect general and administrative costs as a percentage of total revenues to either remain flat or decrease for the next several quarters. Stock-Based Expenses. Our cost of revenues and operating expenses include stock-based expenses related to equity plans for employees and non-employee directors. We recognize our stock-based compensation as an expense in the statement of operations based on their fair values and vesting periods. These charges have been significant in the past and we expect that they will increase as our stock price increases, as we acquire more companies, as we hire more employees and seek to retain existing employees. 40 Table of Contents During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , we recognized stock-based expense of $188.9 million . As of April 30, 2016 , the aggregate stock compensation remaining to be amortized to costs and expenses was $1.6 billion . We expect this stock compensation balance to be amortized as follows: $490.1 million during the remaining nine months of fiscal 2017 ; $522.3 million during fiscal 2018 ; $378.5 million during fiscal 2019 ; $182.0 million during fiscal 2020 and $4.1 million during fiscal 2021 . The expected amortization reflects only outstanding stock awards as of April 30, 2016 and assumes no forfeiture activity. We expect to continue to issue stock-based awards to our employees in future periods. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles from Business Combinations and the Purchase of 50 Fremont . Our cost of revenues, operating expenses and other expense include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts, trade names, customer lists, acquired leases and customer relationships. We expect this expense to increase as we acquire more businesses. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in the Notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the following accounting estimates involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the estimates we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition . We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services and from customers purchasing additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. We commence revenue recognition when all of the following conditions are satisfied: there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement; the service has been or is being provided to the customer; the collection of the fees is reasonably assured; and the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. Our subscription service arrangements are non-cancelable and do not contain refund-type provisions. Subscription and Support Revenues Subscription and support revenues are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date our service is made available to customers. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Professional Services and Other Revenues Our professional services contracts are either on a time and material or fixed fee basis. When these services are not combined with subscription revenues as a single unit of accounting, as discussed below, these revenues are recognized as the services are rendered for time and material contracts, and when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer for fixed price contracts. Training revenues are recognized after the services are performed. 41 Table of Contents Multiple Deliverable Arrangements We enter into arrangements with multiple deliverables that generally include multiple subscriptions, premium support, and professional services. If the deliverables have standalone value upon delivery, we account for each deliverable separately. Subscription services have standalone value as such services are often sold separately. In determining whether professional services have standalone value, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription service start date, and the contractual dependence of the subscription service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. To date, we have concluded that all of the professional services included in multiple deliverable arrangements executed have standalone value. Multiple deliverables included in an arrangement are separated into different units of accounting and the arrangement consideration is allocated to the identified separate units based on a relative selling price hierarchy. We determine the relative selling price for a deliverable based on its vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE), if available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP), if VSOE is not available. We have determined that third-party evidence (TPE) is not a practical alternative due to differences in our service offerings compared to other parties and the availability of relevant third-party pricing information. The amount of revenue allocated to delivered items is limited by contingent revenue, if any. For certain professional services, we have established VSOE as a consistent number of standalone sales of this deliverable have been priced within a reasonably narrow range. We have not established VSOE for our subscription services due to lack of pricing consistency, the introduction of new services and other factors. Accordingly, we use our BESP to determine the relative selling price of our subscription services. We determined BESP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where our services are sold, our price lists, our go-to-market strategy, historical standalone sales and contract prices. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and approval by management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in relative selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. Deferred Revenue. The deferred revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. We generally invoice customers in annual installments. The deferred revenue balance is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing, size and new business linearity within the quarter. Deferred revenue that will be recognized during the succeeding twelve month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as noncurrent. Deferred Commissions. We defer commission payments to our direct sales force. The commissions are deferred and amortized to sales expense over the non-cancelable terms of the related subscription contracts with our customers, which are typically 12 to 36 months. The commission payments, which are paid in full the month after the customers service commences, are a direct and incremental cost of the revenue arrangements. The deferred commission amounts are recoverable through the future revenue streams under the non-cancelable customer contracts. We believe this is the preferable method of accounting as the commission charges are so closely related to the revenue from the non-cancelable customer contracts that they should be recorded as an asset and charged to expense over the same period that the subscription revenue is recognized. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , we deferred $63.5 million of commission expenditures and we amortized $88.5 million to sales expense. During the same period a year ago, we deferred $50.1 million of commission expenditures and we amortized $77.2 million to sales expense. Deferred commissions on our consolidated balance sheets totaled $424.1 million at April 30, 2016 and $449.1 million at January 31, 2016 . Capitalized Internal-Use Software Costs . We are required to follow the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification 350 (ASC 350), Intangibles- Goodwill and Other in accounting for the cost of computer software developed for internal-use and the accounting for web-based product development costs. ASC 350 requires companies to capitalize qualifying computer software costs, which are incurred during the application development stage, and amortize these costs on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective asset. We deliver our enterprise cloud computing solutions as a service via all the major Internet browsers and on leading major mobile device operating systems. As a result of this software as a service delivery model, we believe we have larger capitalized costs as compared to traditional enterprise software companies as they are required to use a different accounting standard. 42 Table of Contents Costs related to preliminary project activities and post implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Internal-use software is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. We evaluate the useful lives of these assets on an annual basis and test for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. Business Combinations. Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed and pre-acquisition contingencies. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets and goodwill we have acquired include but are not limited to: future net expected cash flows from subscription and support contracts, professional services contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; the acquired companys trade name, trademark and existing customer relationships, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and trademark will continue to be used in our offerings; uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. In the event that we enter into a business combination with an entity in which we previously held a strategic investment, significant gains or losses are disclosed separately within the statements of operations. Goodwill and Intangibles. We make estimates, assumptions, and judgments when valuing goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with the initial purchase price allocation of an acquired entity, as well as when evaluating the recoverability of our goodwill and other intangible assets on an ongoing basis. These estimates are based upon a number of factors, including historical experience, market conditions, and information obtained from the management of acquired companies. Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, historical and projected attrition rates, discount rates, anticipated growth in revenue from the acquired customers and acquired technology, and the expected use of the acquired assets. These factors are also considered in determining the useful life of acquired intangible assets. The amounts and useful lives assigned to identified intangible assets impact the amount and timing of future amortization expense. Income Taxes. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations in the period that includes the enactment date. At each of the interim financial reporting periods, we compute our tax provision by applying an estimated annual effective tax rate to year to date ordinary income or loss and adjust the provision for discrete tax items recorded in the same period. The estimated annual effective tax rate at each interim period represents our best estimate based on evaluations of possible future transactions and may be subject to subsequent refinement or revision. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not expected to be realized based on the weighting of positive and negative evidence. Future realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gain) within the carryback or carryforward periods available under the applicable tax law. We regularly review the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Our judgment regarding future profitability may change due to many factors, including future market conditions and the ability to successfully execute our business plans and tax planning strategies. Should there be a change in the ability to recover deferred tax assets, our income tax provision would increase or decrease in the period in which the assessment is changed. Our tax positions are subject to income tax audits by multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the world. We recognize the tax benefit of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination by the taxing authority, based on the technical merits. The tax benefit recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit which is 43 Table of Contents greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement with the taxing authority. We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our income tax provision. Strategic Investments . We hold strategic investments in marketable equity securities and non-marketable debt and equity securities in which we do not have a controlling interest or significant influence, as defined in Accounting Standards Codification 323 (ASC 323), Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures. Marketable equity securities are measured using quoted prices in their respective active markets and non-marketable debt and equity securities are recorded at cost and presented in the consolidated balance sheet. If, based on the terms of our ownership of these marketable and non-marketable securities, we determine that we exercise significant influence on the entity to which these marketable and non-marketable securities relate, we apply the requirements of ASC 323 to account for such investments. We determine the fair value of our marketable equity securities and non-marketable debt and equity securities quarterly for impairment and disclosure purposes; however, the non-marketable debt and equity securities are recorded at fair value only if an impairment is recognized. The measurement of fair value requires significant judgment and includes a qualitative and quantitative analysis of events and circumstances that impact the fair value of the investment. Our assessment of the severity and duration of the impairment and qualitative and quantitative analysis includes the investees financial metrics, the investees products and technologies meeting or exceeding predefined milestones, market acceptance of the product or technology, other competitive products or technology in the market, general market conditions, management and governance structure of the investee, investees liquidity, debt ratios and the rate at which the investee is using its cash, and investees receipt of additional funding at a lower valuation. In determining the estimated fair value of our strategic investments in privately held companies, we utilize the most recent data available to us. Valuations of privately held companies are inherently complex due to the lack of readily available market data. If the fair value of an investment is below our cost, we determine whether the investment is other-than-temporarily impaired based on our qualitative and quantitative analysis, which includes the severity and duration of the impairment. If the investment is considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we record the investment at fair value by recognizing an impairment and establishing a new cost basis for the investment. 44 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Revenues: Subscription and support $ 1,775,493 $ 1,405,287 Professional services and other 141,110 105,880 Total revenues 1,916,603 1,511,167 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 335,828 274,241 Professional services and other 161,153 107,561 Total cost of revenues 496,981 381,802 Gross profit 1,419,622 1,129,365 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 260,970 222,128 Marketing and sales 895,860 736,938 General and administrative 210,806 175,811 Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont 0 (36,617 ) Total operating expenses 1,367,636 1,098,260 Income from operations 51,986 31,105 Investment income 8,122 4,561 Interest expense (22,011 ) (16,675 ) Other expense (1) (13,806 ) (918 ) Gains on sales of strategic investments 12,864 0 Income before benefit from (provision for) income taxes 37,155 18,073 Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 1,604 (13,981 ) Net income $ 38,759 $ 4,092 (1) Amounts related to amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations, as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Cost of revenues $ 22,215 $ 19,690 Marketing and sales 15,386 20,027 Other non-operating expense 706 815 (2) Amounts related to stock-based expenses, as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Cost of revenues $ 26,634 $ 15,381 Research and development 35,168 31,242 Marketing and sales 95,474 70,534 General and administrative 31,643 25,403 45 Table of Contents Revenues by geography were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Americas $ 1,413,229 $ 1,115,120 Europe 327,854 258,805 Asia Pacific 175,520 137,242 $ 1,916,603 $ 1,511,167 Americas revenue attributed to the United States was approximately 97 percent and 95 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The following tables set forth selected consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenues: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Revenues: Subscription and support 93 % 93 % Professional services and other 7 7 Total revenues 100 100 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 18 18 Professional services and other 8 7 Total cost of revenues 26 25 Gross profit 74 75 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 14 15 Marketing and sales 46 49 General and administrative 11 11 Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont 0 (2 ) Total operating expenses 71 73 Income from operations 3 2 Investment income 0 0 Interest expense (1 ) (1 ) Other expense (1) (1 ) 0 Gains on sales of strategic investments 1 0 Income before benefit from (provision for) income taxes 2 1 Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 0 (1 ) Net income 2 % 0 % (1) Amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations as a percentage of total revenues, as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Cost of revenues 1 % 1 % Marketing and sales 1 1 Other non-operating expense 0 0 46 Table of Contents (2) Stock-based expense as a percentage of total revenues, as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Cost of revenues 1 % 1 % Research and development 2 2 Marketing and sales 5 5 General and administrative 2 2 Revenues by geography as a percentage of total revenues, as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Americas 74 % 74 % Europe 17 17 Asia Pacific 9 9 100 % 100 % Revenues and deferred revenue in constant currency, as follows: Revenue constant currency growth rates (as compared to the comparable prior periods) Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 Americas 27% 27% Europe 33% 28% Asia Pacific 29% 27% Total growth 28% 27% We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than United States dollars are converted into United States dollars at the weighted average exchange rate for the quarter being compared to for growth rate calculations presented, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during that period. April 30, 2016 compared to April 30, 2015 January 31, 2016 compared to January 31, 2015 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent constant currency growth rates Total growth 32% 31% To present the information above, we convert the deferred revenue balances in local currencies in previous comparable periods using the United States dollar currency exchange rate as of the most recent balance sheet date. 47 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 1,775,493 $ 1,405,287 $ 370,206 26% Professional services and other 141,110 105,880 35,230 33% Total revenues $ 1,916,603 $ 1,511,167 $ 405,436 27% Total revenues were $1.9 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $1.5 billion during the same period a year ago, an increase of $0.4 billion , or 27 percent . Subscription and support revenues were $1.8 billion , or 93 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $1.4 billion , or 93 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $370.2 million , or 26 percent . The increase in subscription and support revenues was primarily caused by volume-driven increases from new business, which includes new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers. Further, subscription revenues during the quarter benefited due to an additional day in the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015. We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives, which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped maintain our attrition rate. Our attrition rate, which is consistent as compared to the prior year, also played a role in the increase in subscription and support revenues. Changes in the net price per user per month have not been a significant driver of revenue growth for the periods presented. Professional services and other revenues were $141.1 million , or seven percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $105.9 million , or seven percent of total revenues, for the same period a year ago, an increase of $35.2 million , or 33 percent . The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. Revenues in Europe and Asia Pacific accounted for $503.4 million , or 26 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $396.0 million , or 26 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $107.4 million , or 27 percent . The increase in revenues outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our services, our focus on marketing our services internationally and additional resources. Revenues outside of the Americas increased on a total dollar basis in the three months ended April 30, 2016 despite an overall strengthening of the U.S. dollar, which reduced aggregate international revenues by $18.7 million compared to the same period a year ago. Cost of Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Subscription and support $ 335,828 $ 274,241 $ 61,587 Professional services and other 161,153 107,561 53,592 Total cost of revenues $ 496,981 $ 381,802 $ 115,179 Percent of total revenues 26 % 25 % Cost of revenues was $497.0 million , or 26 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $381.8 million , or 25 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $115.2 million . The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $48.9 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $11.3 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $32.0 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, an increase of $8.2 million in professional and outside services and third party expenses, an increase of amortization of purchased intangible assets of $2.5 million and an increase in allocated overhead. We have increased our headcount by 10 percent since April 30, 2015 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity. We also plan to add additional employees in our professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 48 Table of Contents The cost of professional services and other revenues was higher than the related revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2016 by $20.0 million as compared to $1.7 million during the same period a year ago. We expect the cost of professional services to continue to be more than revenue from professional services in future fiscal quarters. We believe that this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings. Research and Development. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Research and development $ 260,970 $ 222,128 $ 38,842 Percent of total revenues 14 % 15 % Research and development expenses were $261.0 million , or 14 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $222.1 million , or 15 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $38.8 million . The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of approximately $29.0 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $3.9 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $5.9 million in our development and test data center, and increases in allocated overhead. We increased our research and development headcount by seven percent since April 30, 2015 in order to improve and extend our service offerings and develop new technologies. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to invest in additional employees and technology to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired technologies. Marketing and Sales. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Marketing and sales $ 895,860 $ 736,938 $ 158,922 Percent of total revenues 46 % 49 % Marketing and sales expenses were $895.9 million , or 46 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $736.9 million , or 49 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $158.9 million . The change was primarily due to an increase of $108.8 million in employee-related costs and amortization of deferred commissions, an increase of $24.9 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $22.7 million in advertising expenses and allocated overhead. This was offset by a decrease of $4.6 million related to the amortization of purchased intangible assets. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by six percent since April 30, 2015 . The increase in headcount was primarily attributable to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. General and Administrative. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars General and administrative $ 210,806 $ 175,811 $ 34,995 Percent of total revenues 11 % 11 % General and administrative expenses were $210.8 million , or 11 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , compared to $175.8 million , or 11 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $35.0 million . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $25.8 million in employee-related costs and an increase of $6.2 million in stock-based expenses. Our general and administrative headcount increased by five percent since April 30, 2015 as we added personnel to support our growth. 49 Table of Contents Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont $ 0 $ (36,617 ) $ 36,617 Percent of total revenues 0 % (2 )% Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was $36.6 million. In connection with the February 2015 purchase, we recognized a net non-cash gain totaling approximately $36.6 million on the termination of the lease signed in January 2012. Income from operations. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Income from operations $ 51,986 $ 31,105 $ 20,881 Percent of total revenues 3 % 2 % Income from operations for the three months ended April 30, 2016 was $52.0 million and included $188.9 million of stock-based expenses and $37.6 million of amortization of purchased intangibles. During the same period a year ago, income from operations was $31.1 million and included a gain of $36.6 million related to the purchase of 50 Fremont, $142.6 million of stock-based expenses and $39.7 million of amortization of purchased intangibles. The increase in income from operations is primarily due to a higher revenue growth rate compared to costs and operating expense growth rates. Investment income. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Investment income $ 8,122 $ 4,561 $ 3,561 Investment income consists of income on our cash and marketable securities balances. Investment income was $8.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and was $4.6 million during the same period a year ago. The increase was primarily due to earnings on higher cash and marketable securities balances. Interest expense. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Interest expense $ (22,011 ) $ (16,675 ) $ (5,336 ) Percent of total revenues (1 )% (1 )% Interest expense consists of interest on our convertible senior notes, capital leases, term loan, financing obligation related to 350 Mission and revolving credit facility. Interest expense, net of interest costs capitalized, was $22.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and was $16.7 million during the same period a year ago. Other expense. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Other expense $ (13,806 ) $ (918 ) $ (12,888 ) Other expense primarily consists of non-operating costs such as strategic investments fair market value adjustments, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and real estate transactions. 50 Table of Contents Gain on sales of strategic investments. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Gains on sales of strategic investments $ 12,864 $ 0 $ 12,864 Gains on sales of strategic investments were $12.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . Gains on sales of strategic investments primarily consist of significant gains on sales of strategic investments resulting from mergers and acquisitions that we initiated in which we previously held an equity interest. Benefit from (provision for) income taxes. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2016 2015 Dollars Benefit from (provision for) income taxes $ 1,604 $ (13,981 ) $ 15,585 Effective tax rate (4 )% 77 % We recognized a tax benefit of $1.6 million on a pretax income of $37.2 million , which resulted in a negative effective tax rate of 4 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . We recorded a net tax benefit due to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside the United States, which was offset by a discrete tax benefit from a partial release of the tax valuation allowance in connection with certain acquisitions. The net deferred tax liability from the acquisitions provided a source of additional income to support the realizability of our pre-existing deferred tax assets, and as a result, a portion of the valuation allowance was released. Additionally, as a result of early adopting ASU 2016-09 and our valuation allowance position, we did not record any U.S. current expense. We recorded a tax provision of $14.0 million with a pretax income of $18.1 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 77 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . The tax provision recorded was primarily due to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside the United States. 51 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 30, 2016 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $3.7 billion and accounts receivable of $1.2 billion . Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.1 billion during the three months ended April 30, 2016 and $735.1 million during the same period a year ago. Cash provided by operating activities has historically been affected by the amount of net income adjusted for non-cash expense items such as depreciation and amortization; amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations; amortization of debt discount; discrete items such as the non-cash gain from the termination of 50 Fremont lease; the expense associated with stock-based awards; gains on sales of strategic investments; the timing of employee related costs including commissions and bonus payments; the timing of payments against accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities; the timing of collections from our customers, which is our largest source of operating cash flows; and changes in working capital accounts. As a result of the early adoption of ASU 2016-09, the benefit to cash flows from operating activities due to no longer reducing operating cash flow by the excess tax benefits in the three months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $25.0 million. Our working capital accounts consist of accounts receivable, deferred commissions, prepaid assets and other current assets. Claims against working capital include accounts payable, accrued expenses, deferred revenue, and other current liabilities and payments related to our convertible senior notes and loan secured by 50 Fremont. Our working capital may be impacted by factors in future periods such as billings to customers for subscriptions and support services and the subsequent collection of those billings, certain amounts and timing of which are seasonal. As described above in Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow, our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals, and correspondingly the first quarter for cash collections. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall business causes both the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter and cash collections in the first quarter to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. We generally invoice our customers for our subscription and services contracts in advance in annual installments. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. Such invoice amounts are initially reflected in accounts receivable and deferred revenue, which is reflected on the balance sheets. The operating cash flow benefit of increased billing activity generally occurs in the subsequent quarter when we collect from our customers. As such, our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. Net cash used in investing activities was $450.3 million during the three months ended April 30, 2016 and $536.1 million during the same period a year ago. The net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2016 primarily related to strategic investments and capital expenditures including new office build-outs and investment of cash balances offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $39.2 million during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $161.8 million during the same period a year ago. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2016 consisted primarily of $50.0 million of principal payments on capital leases, offset by $89.1 million from proceeds from equity plans and the netting of excess tax benefits from employee stock plans to cash flows from operating activities due to the early adoption of ASU 2016-09. The 0.25% Senior Notes will be convertible if during any 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days of any fiscal quarter, our common stock trades at a price exceeding 130% of the conversion price of $66.44 per share applicable to the 0.25% Senior Notes. The 0.25% Senior Notes have not yet been convertible at the holders option. The 0.25% Senior Notes are classified as a noncurrent liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2016. Our common stock did not trade at a price exceeding 130% of the conversion price of $66.44 per share applicable to the 0.25% Senior Notes during the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2016. Accordingly, the 0.25% Senior Notes were not convertible at the holders option for the quarter ending April 30, 2016. In October 2014, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) which provides for a $650.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) that matures in October 2019. In March 2015, we paid down the $300.0 million of outstanding borrowings held under the Credit Facility and related interest in full. We may use any future borrowings under the Credit Facility for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted acquisitions. We may borrow amounts under the Credit Facility at any time during the term of the Credit Agreement. We may also prepay the borrowings under the Credit Facility, in whole or in part, at any time without premium or penalty, 52 Table of Contents subject to certain conditions, and amounts repaid or prepaid may be reborrowed. As of April 30, 2016 , we had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. The Credit Agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants, including a consolidated leverage ratio covenant, a consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant, a limit on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, dispose of assets, make certain acquisition transactions, pay dividends or distributions, and certain other restrictions on our activities each defined specifically in the Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with the Credit Agreements covenants as of April 30, 2016 . In February 2015, the Company acquired 50 Fremont Street, a 41-story building totaling approximately 817,000 rentable square feet located in San Francisco, California (50 Fremont). At the time of the acquisition, the Company was leasing approximately 500,000 square feet of the available space in 50 Fremont. The total purchase price for 50 Fremont was $637.6 million . In financing the purchase price, we used $115.0 million of restricted cash on hand and assumed a $200.0 million loan secured by the property with the remainder paid in cash. For the three months ended April 30, 2016 , total interest expense we recognized was $ 1.9 million . In April 2016, we entered into an agreement with a third party provider for certain infrastructure services for a period of four years. The agreement provides that we will pay $70.0 million in fiscal 2017, $96.0 million in fiscal 2018, $108.0 million in fiscal 2019 and $126.0 million in fiscal 2020. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and other obligations, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency obligations, government obligations, collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage backed securities, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. As of April 30, 2016 , we have a total of $83.8 million in letters of credit outstanding in favor of certain landlords for office space. To date, no amounts have been drawn against the letters of credit, which renew annually and expire at various dates through December 2030. We do not have any special purpose entities, and other than operating leases for office space and computer equipment, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space, co-location data center facilities, and our development and test data center, as well as leases for computer equipment, software, furniture and fixtures. At April 30, 2016 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows (in thousands): Capital Leases Operating Leases Financing Obligation - Leased Facility Fiscal Period: Remaining nine months of fiscal 2017 $ 50,960 $ 287,083 $ 14,518 Fiscal 2018 122,765 351,971 21,437 Fiscal 2019 115,797 299,254 21,881 Fiscal 2020 201,579 239,804 22,325 Fiscal 2021 37 223,280 22,770 Thereafter 0 1,233,948 233,927 Total minimum lease payments 491,138 $ 2,635,340 $ 336,858 Less: amount representing interest (42,438 ) Present value of capital lease obligations $ 448,700 The majority of our operating lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these options and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations. The financing obligation above represents the total obligation for our lease of approximately 445,000 rentable square feet of office space in San Francisco, California. As of April 30, 2016 , $220.3 million of the total obligation noted above was recorded to Financing obligation, building - leased facility, which the current portion is included in "Accounts payable, accrued 53 Table of Contents expenses and other liabilities" and the non-current portion is included in Other noncurrent liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. In February 2016, the Company entered into an agreement to sublease additional office space in New York, New York. The amounts associated with the agreement will be approximately $288.0 million over the approximately 12 year term of the agreement, beginning in the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2018. In May 2016, the Company entered into an agreement to lease additional office space in Indianapolis, Indiana. The amounts associated with the agreement will be approximately $77.0 million over the approximately 13 year term of the agreement, beginning in the Company's second quarter of fiscal 2018. During the remaining months of fiscal 2017 and in future fiscal years, we have made and expect to continue to make additional investments in our infrastructure to scale our operations and increase productivity. We plan to upgrade or replace various internal systems to scale with the overall growth of the Company. Additionally, we expect capital expenditures to be higher in absolute dollars and remain consistent as a percentage of total revenues in future periods as a result of continued office build-outs, other leasehold improvements and data center investments. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses or joint ventures, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities and cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt repayment needs over the next 12 months. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for our discussion about new accounting pronouncements adopted and those pending. 54 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Commission Filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP free cash flow, and non-GAAP earnings per share each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. The primary purpose of using non-GAAP measures is to provide supplemental information that may prove useful to investors who wish to consider the impact of certain non-cash or non-recurring items on the companys operating performance and to enable investors to evaluate the companys results in the same way management does. These non-cash or non-recurring items generally consist of one-time items resulting from strategic decisions that affect multiple periods or periods unrelated to when the actual items were incurred. Management believes that supplementing GAAP disclosure with non-GAAP disclosure that excludes items that are not directly related to performance in any particular period provides investors with a more complete view of the companys operational performance and allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in the companys business. Further, to the extent that other companies use similar methods in calculating non-GAAP measures, the provision of supplemental non-GAAP information can allow for a comparison of the companys relative performance against other companies that also report non-GAAP operating results. Non-GAAP net income We define non-GAAP net income as our total net income excluding the components described below, which we believe are not reflective of our core, ongoing operating results. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating the impact of certain items to our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as we do, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and in better understanding the impact of these items on our gross margin and operating performance. Stock-Based Expense. The Companys compensation strategy includes the use of stock-based compensation to attract and retain employees and executives. It is principally aimed at aligning their interests with those of our stockholders and at long-term employee retention, rather than to motivate or reward operational performance for any particular period. Thus, stock-based expense varies for reasons that are generally unrelated to operational decisions and performance in any particular period. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles and Acquired Leases. The Company views amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts, trade names, customer lists, customer relationships and acquired lease intangibles, as items arising from pre-acquisition activities determined at the time of an acquisition. While these intangible assets are continually evaluated for impairment, amortization of the cost of purchased intangibles is a static expense, one that is not typically affected by operations during any particular period. Amortization of Debt Discount. Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuers non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, for GAAP purposes we are required to recognize imputed interest expense on the Companys $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes due 2018 that were issued in a private placement in March 2013. The imputed interest rate was approximately 2.53% for the convertible notes due 2018, while the actual coupon interest rate of the notes was 0.25%. The difference between the imputed interest expense and the coupon interest expense, net of the interest amount capitalized, is excluded from managements assessment of the Companys operating performance because management believes that this non-cash expense is not indicative of its core, ongoing operating performance. Management believes that the exclusion of the non-cash interest expense provides investors an enhanced view of the Companys operational performance. Gains on Sales of Strategic Investments. The Company views gains on sales of its strategic investments resulting from acquisitions initiated by the Company in which an equity interest was previously held as discrete events and not indicative of operational performance during any particular period. Management believes that the exclusion of these gains provides investors an enhanced view of the Companys operational performance. Lease Termination Resulting from Purchase of Office Building. The Company views the non-cash, one-time gain associated with the termination of its lease at 50 Fremont to be a discrete item. Management believes that the exclusion of the gains provides investors an enhanced view of the Companys operational performance. 55 Table of Contents Income Tax Effects and Adjustments. The Company utilizes a fixed long-term projected non-GAAP tax rate in order to provide better consistency across the interim reporting periods by eliminating the effects of non-recurring and period-specific items such as changes in the tax valuation allowance and tax effects of acquisitions-related costs, since each of these can vary in size and frequency. When projecting this long-term rate, the Company evaluated a three-year financial projection that excludes the direct impact of the following non-cash items: stock-based expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles, amortization of acquired leases, amortization of debt discount, gains/losses on the sales of land and building improvements, gains/losses on conversions of debt, gains on sales of strategic investments and termination of office leases. The projected rate also assumes no new acquisitions in the three-year period, and considers other factors including the Companys tax structure, its tax positions in various jurisdictions and key legislation in major jurisdictions where the company operates. This long-term rate could be subject to change for a variety of reasons, such as significant changes in the geographic earnings mix including acquisition activity, or fundamental tax law changes in major jurisdictions where the company operates. The Company re-evaluates this long-term rate on an annual basis or if any significant events that may materially affect this long-term rate occur. The non-GAAP tax rate for fiscal 2017 is 35.0 percent, and was 35.5 percent for fiscal 2016. Additionally, as significant, unusual or discrete events occur, or as other events occur that are not related to the Companys core, ongoing operating results, we may exclude the financial results of these events from non-GAAP net income in the period in which such events occur. For example, we could in the future recognize a significant gain or loss in connection with one or more of our strategic investments, which may not be viewed by management as reflective of our core, ongoing operating results. Similarly, the financial effects of significant facilities-related transactions may in the future be excluded from non-GAAP net income in the period in which such events may occur, if they are not viewed by management as reflective of our core, ongoing operating results. Non-GAAP gross profit We define non-GAAP gross profit as our total revenues less cost of revenues, as reported on our consolidated statement of operations, excluding the portions of stock-based expenses and amortization of purchased intangibles that are included in cost of revenues. Non-GAAP operating profit We define non-GAAP operating profit as our non-GAAP gross profit less operating expenses, as reported on our consolidated statement of operations, excluding the portions of stock-based expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles and gain resulting from termination of our office lease that are included in operating expenses. Non-GAAP earnings per share We define non-GAAP earnings per share as our non-GAAP net income divided by basic or diluted shares outstanding. Non-GAAP free cash flow We define the non-GAAP measure free cash flow as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures. For this purpose, capital expenditures does not include our strategic investments, nor does it include any costs or activities related to our purchase of 50 Fremont land and building, and building - leased facilities. Limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP free cash flow is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP free cash flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of stock-based expense, if we did not pay a portion of compensation in the form of stock-based expense, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measure. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. 56 Table of Contents Our reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 are as follows (in thousands, except for share numbers): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Non-GAAP gross profit GAAP gross profit $ 1,419,622 $ 1,129,365 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 22,215 19,690 Stock-based expense 26,634 15,381 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 1,468,471 $ 1,164,436 Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Non-GAAP income from operations GAAP income from operations $ 51,986 $ 31,105 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 37,601 39,717 Stock-based expense 188,919 142,560 Less: Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont 0 (36,617 ) Non-GAAP income from operations $ 278,506 $ 176,765 Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Non-GAAP net income GAAP net income $ 38,759 $ 4,092 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 37,601 39,717 Amortization of acquired lease intangible 706 815 Stock-based expense 188,919 142,560 Amortization of debt discount, net 6,226 6,059 Less: Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont 0 (36,617 ) Gains on sales of strategic investments (12,864 ) 0 Income tax effects and adjustments (91,814 ) (48,291 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 167,533 $ 108,335 57 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share GAAP diluted income per share $ 0.06 $ 0.01 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.05 0.06 Amortization of acquired lease intangible 0.00 0.00 Stock-based expenses 0.28 0.21 Amortization of debt discount, net 0.01 0.01 Less: Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont 0.00 (0.06 ) Gains on sales of strategic investments (0.02 ) 0.00 Income tax effects and adjustments of Non-GAAP items (0.14 ) (0.07 ) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 0.24 $ 0.16 Shares used in computing diluted net income per share 686,799 664,310 Non-GAAP net income for the quarter ended April 30, 2016 was $167.5 million and $108.3 million for the same period a year ago, an increase of $59.2 million or 55 percent. During fiscal 2017 we remained focused on improving non-GAAP operating profit and expect to remain similarly focused for the remaining nine months of fiscal 2017. Three Months Ended April 30, Free cash flow analysis 2016 2015 Operating cash flow (1) GAAP net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,051,062 $ 735,081 Less: Capital expenditures (83,301 ) (71,087 ) Free cash flow $ 967,761 $ 663,994 (1) During the three months ended April 30, 2016, the Company early adopted ASU 2016-09. As a result, excess tax benefits are no longer classified as a reduction of operating cash flow. For more information, refer to Note 1 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.