ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion inManagements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, trend analyses, statements regarding future events, future financial performance, our anticipated growth, the effect of general economic and market conditions, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results, our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be the leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms and to lead the industry shift to the customer company, our service performance and security, the expenses associated with new data centers, additional data center capacity, real estate and office facilities space, our operating results, new features and services, our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, our ability to continue the growth and to maintain deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to develop our brands, our ability to realize the benefits from strategic partnerships and investments, the effect of evolving government regulations, the valuation of deferred tax assets, the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future and related matters, the impact of expensing stock options, the sufficiency of our capital resources, factors related to our outstanding convertible notes, revolving credit facility, loan associated with 50 Fremont, compliance with our related debt covenants and capital lease obligations, and current and potential litigation involving us, all of which are based on current expectations, estimates, and forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, assumes, may, should, could, foresees, forecasts, variations of such words and similar expressions are also intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below, under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, for factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions, with a focus on customer relationship management, or CRM. We introduced our first CRM solution in February 2000 and we have since expanded our offerings with new editions, solutions, enhanced features, platform capabilities and a new analytics solution through internal development and acquisitions. We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide on a subscription basis. Our mission is to help our customers transform themselves into customer companies by empowering them to connect with their customers in entirely new ways. With our six core cloud service offeringsSales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Communities Cloud, Analytics Cloud and the Salesforce1 Platformcustomers have the tools they need to build a next generation customer success platform. Key elements of our strategy include: strengthening our market-leading solutions; extending distribution into new and high-growth categories; expanding strategic relationships with our existing customers; pursuing new customers; reducing customer attrition; building our business in top software markets globally, which includes building partnerships that help add customers; and encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platforms. 32 Table of Contents We believe the factors that will influence our ability to achieve our objectives include: our prospective customers willingness to migrate to enterprise cloud computing services; the availability, performance and security of our service; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved features; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; successful customer adoption and utilization of our service; acceptance of our service in markets where we have few customers; the emergence of additional competitors in our market and improved product offerings by existing and new competitors; the location of new data centers; third-party developers willingness to develop applications on our platforms; our ability to attract new personnel and retain and motivate current personnel; and general economic conditions which could affect our customers ability and willingness to purchase our services, delay the customers purchasing decision or affect attrition rates. To address these factors, we will need to, among other things, continue to add substantial numbers of paying subscriptions, upgrade our customers to fully featured versions or arrangements such as an Enterprise License Agreement, provide high quality technical support to our customers, encourage the development of third-party applications on our platforms and continue to focus on retaining customers at the time of renewal. Our plans to invest for future growth include the continuation of the expansion of our data center capacity, the hiring of additional personnel, particularly in direct sales, other customer-related areas and research and development, the expansion of domestic and international selling and marketing activities, specifically in our top markets, continuing to develop our brands, the addition of distribution channels, the upgrade of our service offerings, the development of new services such as the Analytics Cloud and Communities Cloud, the integration of acquired technologies, the expansion of our Marketing Cloud and Salesforce1 Platform core service offerings, and the additions to our global infrastructure to support our growth. We also regularly evaluate acquisitions or investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our service offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future and we plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in future periods to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. As a result of our aggressive growth plans, specifically our hiring plan and acquisition activities, we have incurred significant expenses from equity awards and amortization of purchased intangibles which have resulted in net losses on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") basis. As we continue with our growth plan and absent any one-time gains, we may continue to have net losses on a GAAP basis. Our typical subscription contract term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months, so during any fiscal reporting period only a subset of active subscription contracts is eligible for renewal. We calculate our attrition rate as of the end of each month. Our current attrition rate calculation does not include the Marketing Cloud service offerings. Our attrition rate was approximately nine percent as of April 30, 2015. We expect our attrition rate to remain consistent as we continue to expand our enterprise business and invest in customer success and related programs. We expect marketing and sales costs, which were 49 percent of our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 52 percent for the same period a year ago, to continue to represent a substantial portion of total revenues in the future as we seek to grow our customer base, sell more products to existing customers, and build greater brand awareness. In February 2015, we purchased a 41-story office building in San Francisco, California which we refer to as 50 Fremont. We currently occupy approximately 515,000 square feet of the 817,000 total rental square feet in the building. As part of the business combination accounting for the purchase, we recognized a one-time non-cash net gain of $36.6 million for the termination of the operating leases that existed prior to the purchase. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , we also made several large strategic investments totaling approximately $145 million in privately-held companies, some of which are in the development stage. We plan to continue to make similar investments throughout the remainder of fiscal 2016 . Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2016 , for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2016 . 33 Table of Contents Operating Segments We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who in our case is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Over the past few years, we have completed several acquisitions. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the enterprise cloud computing market. While we have offerings in multiple enterprise cloud computing market segments, our business operates in one operating segment because all of our offerings operate on a single platform and are deployed in an identical way, and our chief operating decision maker evaluates our financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements. Sources of Revenues We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services and from customers paying for additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fees; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 93 percent of our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Subscription revenues are driven primarily by the number of paying subscribers, varying service types, the price of our service and renewals. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity (e.g., a company, a distinct business unit of a large corporation, a partnership, etc.) that has entered into a contract to access our enterprise cloud computing services. We define a subscription as a unique user account purchased by a customer for use by its employees or other customer-authorized users, and we refer to each such user as a subscriber. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 . Subscription and support revenues are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contract. The typical subscription and support term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months. Our subscription and support contracts are non-cancelable, though customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we materially fail to perform. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue, or in revenue depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period. Professional services and other revenues consist of fees associated with consulting and implementation services and training. Our consulting and implementation engagements are typically billed on a time and materials basis. We also offer a number of training classes on implementing, using and administering our service that are billed on a per person, per class basis. Our typical professional services payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. In determining whether professional services can be accounted for separately from subscription and support revenues, we consider a number of factors, which are described in Critical Accounting EstimatesRevenue Recognition below. Revenue by Cloud Service Offering We are providing the information below on a supplemental basis to give additional insight into the revenue performance of our individual core service offerings. Subscription and support revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following by core service offering (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 Sales Cloud $ 630.4 $ 576.6 Service Cloud 407.7 294.8 Salesforce1 Platform and Other 224.0 164.9 Marketing Cloud 143.2 111.0 Total $ 1,405.3 $ 1,147.3 34 Table of Contents Subscription and support revenues from Analytics Cloud and Communities Cloud, which were introduced in October 2014, were not significant for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . The Analytics Cloud revenue is included with Salesforce1 Platform and Other in the table above. Communities Cloud revenue is included in either Sales Cloud, Service Cloud or Salesforce1 Platform and Other revenue depending on the primary service offering purchased. In situations where a customer purchases multiple cloud offerings, such as through an Enterprise License Agreement, we allocate the contract value to each core service offering based on the customers estimated product demand plan and the service that was provided at the inception of the contract. We do not update these allocations based on actual product usage during the term of the contract. We have allocated approximately 10 percent of our total subscription and support revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , based on customers estimated product demand plans and these allocated amounts are included in the table above. Additionally, some of our core service offerings have similar features and functions. For example, customers may use the Sales Cloud, the Service Cloud or our Salesforce1 Platform to record account and contact information, which are similar features across these core service offerings. Depending on a customers actual and projected business requirements, more than one core service offering may satisfy the customers current and future needs. We record revenue based on the individual products ordered by a customer, and not according to the customers business requirements and usage. In addition, as we introduce new features and functions within each offering, and refine our allocation methodology for changes in our business, we do not expect it to be practical to adjust historical revenue results by core service offering for comparability. Accordingly, comparisons of revenue performance by core service offering over time may not be meaningful. Our Sales Cloud service offering is our most widely distributed service offering and has historically been the largest contributor of subscription and support revenues. As a result, Sales Cloud has the most international exposure and foreign exchange rate exposure relative to the other cloud service offerings. Conversely, revenue for Marketing Cloud is primarily derived from the Americas, with little impact from foreign exchange rate movement. We estimate that for the remainder of fiscal 2016 , subscription and support revenues from the Sales Cloud service offering will continue to be the largest contributor of subscription and support revenue, and foreign currency will continue to have a more pronounced impact on Sales Cloud subscription and support revenues than revenues from our other cloud service offerings. Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in annual cycles. Approximately 75 percent of all subscription and support invoices were issued with annual terms during the three months ended April 30, 2015 in comparison to nearly 68 percent during the same period a year ago. Occasionally, we bill customers for their multi-year contract on a single invoice which results in an increase in noncurrent deferred revenue. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. This may result in an increase in deferred revenue and accounts receivable. There is a disproportionate weighting towards annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, because of this billing activity, our first quarter is historically our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. The sequential quarterly changes in accounts receivable and the related deferred revenue and operating cash flow during the first quarter of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of the billing activity that occurs for the following quarters as displayed below (in thousands, except unbilled deferred revenue): April 30, 2015 Fiscal 2016 Accounts receivable, net $ 926,381 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 3,056,820 Operating cash flow (1) 730,857 Unbilled deferred revenue, a non-GAAP measure 6.0 bn 35 Table of Contents April 30, 2014 July 31, 2014 October 31, 2014 January 31, 2015 Fiscal 2015 Accounts receivable, net $ 684,155 $ 834,323 $ 794,590 $ 1,905,506 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 2,324,615 2,352,904 2,223,977 3,321,449 Operating cash flow (1) 473,087 245,893 122,511 332,223 Unbilled deferred revenue, a non-GAAP measure 4.8 bn 5.0 bn 5.4 bn 5.7 bn April 30, 2013 July 31, 2013 October 31, 2013 January 31, 2014 Fiscal 2014 Accounts receivable, net $ 502,609 $ 599,543 $ 604,045 $ 1,360,837 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 1,733,160 1,789,648 1,734,619 2,522,115 Operating cash flow (1) 283,189 183,183 137,859 271,238 Unbilled deferred revenue, a non-GAAP measure 3.6 bn 3.8 bn 4.2 bn 4.5 bn (1) Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended in the periods stated above. Unbilled Deferred Revenue, a Non-GAAP Measure The deferred revenue balance on our condensed consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. Unbilled deferred revenue was approximately $6.0 billion as of April 30, 2015 and approximately $5.7 billion as of January 31, 2015 . Our typical contract length is between 12 and 36 months. We expect that the amount of unbilled deferred revenue will change from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including the specific timing, duration and size of large customer subscription agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, the specific timing of customer renewals, foreign currency fluctuations, the timing of when unbilled deferred revenue is to be recognized as revenue, and changes in customer financial circumstances. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled deferred revenue is typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increases if the agreement is renewed. Low unbilled deferred revenue attributable to a particular subscription agreement is often associated with an impending renewal and may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. Accordingly, we expect that the amount of aggregate unbilled deferred revenue will change from year-to-year depending in part upon the number and dollar amount of subscription agreements at particular stages in their renewal cycle. Such fluctuations are not a reliable indicator of future revenues. Unbilled deferred revenue does not include minimum revenue commitments from indirect sales channels, as we recognize revenue, deferred revenue, and any unbilled deferred revenue upon sell-through to an end user customer. Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenues. Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to hosting our service and providing support, the costs of data center capacity, depreciation or operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software, allocated overhead, amortization expense associated with capitalized software related to our services and acquired developed technologies and certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology, services and data. We allocate overhead such as information technology infrastructure, rent and occupancy charges based on headcount. Employee benefit costs and taxes are allocated based upon a percentage of total compensation expense. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based expenses, the cost of subcontractors and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenue than for our enterprise cloud computing subscription service due to the direct labor costs and costs of subcontractors. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services. For example, we have invested in additional database software and we plan to open additional data centers and expand our current data center capacity in the future. As we acquire new businesses and technologies, the amortization expense associated with this activity will be included in cost of revenues. Additionally, as we enter into new contracts with third parties for the use of their technology, services or data, or as our sales volume grows, the fees paid to use such technology or services may increase. The 36 Table of Contents timing of these additional expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in the affected periods. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, the costs of our development and test data center and allocated overhead. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and services, integrating acquired technologies, increasing the functionality and security and enhancing the ease of use of our enterprise cloud computing services. Our proprietary, scalable and secure multi-tenant architecture enables us to provide all of our customers with a service based on a single version of our application. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions, which enables us to have relatively lower research and development expenses as compared to traditional enterprise software companies. We expect that in the future, research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in building the necessary employee and system infrastructure required to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired businesses and technologies. Marketing and Sales. Marketing and sales expenses are our largest cost and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for our sales and marketing staff, including commissions, payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. We plan to continue to invest in marketing and sales by expanding our domestic and international selling and marketing activities, building brand awareness, attracting new customers and sponsoring additional marketing events. The timing of these marketing events, such as our annual and largest event, Dreamforce, will affect our marketing costs in a particular quarter. We expect that in the future, marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest cost. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, professional fees, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that in the future, general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our infrastructure and we incur additional employee related costs, professional fees and insurance costs related to the growth of our business and international expansion. We expect general and administrative costs as a percentage of total revenues to either remain flat or decrease for the next several quarters. Stock-Based Expenses. Our cost of revenues and operating expenses include stock-based expenses related to equity plans for employees and non-employee directors. We recognize our stock-based compensation as an expense in the statement of operations based on their fair values and vesting periods. These charges have been significant in the past and we expect that they will increase as our stock price increases, as we acquire more companies, as we hire more employees and seek to retain existing employees. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , we recognized stock-based expense of $142.6 million . As of April 30, 2015 , the aggregate stock compensation remaining to be amortized to costs and expenses over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years was $1.3 billion . We expect this stock compensation balance to be amortized as follows: $403.3 million during the remaining nine months of fiscal 2016 ; $414.1 million during fiscal 2017 ; $297.9 million during fiscal 2018 ; $143.9 million during fiscal 2019 and $2.5 million during fiscal 2020 . The expected amortization reflects only outstanding stock awards as of April 30, 2015 and assumes no forfeiture activity. We expect to continue to issue stock-based awards to our employees in future periods. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles from Business Combinations and the Purchase of 50 Fremont . Our cost of revenues, operating expenses and other expense include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts, trade names, customer lists, acquired leases and customer relationships. We expect this expense to increase as we acquire more businesses. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 37 Table of Contents We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our condensed consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition . We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services and from customers purchasing additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. We commence revenue recognition when all of the following conditions are satisfied: there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement; the service has been or is being provided to the customer; the collection of the fees is reasonably assured; and the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. Our subscription service arrangements are non-cancelable and do not contain refund-type provisions. Subscription and Support Revenues Subscription and support revenues are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date our service is made available to customers. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Professional Services and Other Revenues The majority of our professional services contracts are on a time and material basis. When these services are not combined with subscription revenues as a single unit of accounting, as discussed below, these revenues are recognized as the services are rendered for time and material contracts, and when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer for fixed price contracts. Training revenues are recognized after the services are performed. Multiple Deliverable Arrangements We enter into arrangements with multiple deliverables that generally include multiple subscriptions, premium support, and professional services. If the deliverables have standalone value upon delivery, we account for each deliverable separately. Subscription services have standalone value as such services are often sold separately. In determining whether professional services have standalone value, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription service start date, and the contractual dependence of the subscription service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. To date, we have concluded that all of the professional services included in multiple deliverable arrangements executed have standalone value. Multiple deliverables included in an arrangement are separated into different units of accounting and the arrangement consideration is allocated to the identified separate units based on a relative selling price hierarchy. We determine the relative selling price for a deliverable based on its vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE), if available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP), if VSOE is not available. We have determined that third-party evidence (TPE) is not a practical alternative due to differences in our service offerings compared to other parties and the availability of relevant third-party pricing information. The amount of revenue allocated to delivered items is limited by contingent revenue, if any. For certain professional services, we have established VSOE as a consistent number of standalone sales of this deliverable have been priced within a reasonably narrow range. We have not established VSOE for our subscription services due to lack of pricing consistency, the introduction of new services and other factors. Accordingly, we use our BESP to determine the relative selling price. We determined BESP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where our services are sold, our price lists, our go-to-market strategy, historical standalone sales and contract prices. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and approval by management, taking into 38 Table of Contents consideration the go-to-market strategy. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in relative selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. Deferred Revenue. The deferred revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription service described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. We generally invoice customers in annual installments. The deferred revenue balance is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing, size and new business linearity within the quarter. Deferred revenue that will be recognized during the succeeding twelve month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as noncurrent. Deferred Commissions. We defer commission payments to our direct sales force. The commissions are deferred and amortized to sales expense over the non-cancelable terms of the related subscription contracts with our customers, which are typically 12 to 36 months. The commission payments, which are paid in full the month after the customers service commences, are a direct and incremental cost of the revenue arrangements. The deferred commission amounts are recoverable through the future revenue streams under the non-cancelable customer contracts. We believe this is the preferable method of accounting as the commission charges are so closely related to the revenue from the non-cancelable customer contracts that they should be recorded as an asset and charged to expense over the same period that the subscription revenue is recognized. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , we deferred $50.1 million of commission expenditures and we amortized $77.2 million to sales expense. During the same period a year ago, we deferred $40.9 million of commission expenditures and we amortized $59.9 million to sales expense. Deferred commissions on our condensed consolidated balance sheets totaled $361.1 million at April 30, 2015 and $388.2 million at January 31, 2015 . Capitalized Internal-Use Software Costs . We are required to follow the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification 350 (ASC 350), Intangibles- Goodwill and Other in accounting for the cost of computer software developed for internal-use and the accounting for web-based product development costs. ASC 350 requires companies to capitalize qualifying computer software costs, which are incurred during the application development stage, and amortize these costs on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective asset. We deliver our enterprise cloud computing solutions as a service via all the major Internet browsers and on leading major mobile device operating systems. As a result of this software as a service delivery model, we believe we have larger capitalized costs as compared to traditional enterprise software companies as they are required to use a different accounting standard. Costs related to preliminary project activities and post implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Internal-use software is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. We evaluate the useful lives of these assets on an annual basis and test for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets . We make estimates, assumptions, and judgments when valuing goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with the initial purchase price allocation of an acquired entity, as well as when evaluating the recoverability of our goodwill and other intangible assets on an ongoing basis. These estimates are based upon a number of factors, including historical experience, market conditions, and information obtained from the management of acquired companies. Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, historical and projected attrition rates, anticipated growth in revenue from the acquired customers and acquired technology, and the expected use of the acquired assets. These factors are also considered in determining the useful life of acquired intangible assets. The amounts and useful lives assigned to identified intangible assets impacts the amount and timing of future amortization expense. The value of our goodwill and intangible assets could be impacted by future adverse changes such as, but not limited to: a substantial decline in our market capitalization; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; and unanticipated competition. 39 Table of Contents We evaluate and test the recoverability of our goodwill for impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter or more often if and when circumstances indicate that goodwill may not be recoverable. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful life of our intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. We evaluate long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, and purchased intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such events or changes in circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying asset, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from the acquired assets, difficulty and delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of the acquired assets or use of an asset. A long-lived asset is considered impaired if its carrying amount exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If a long-lived asset is considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group. Business Combinations. Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed and pre-acquisition contingencies. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets and goodwill we have acquired include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from subscription and support contracts, professional services contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; the acquired companys trade name, trademark and existing customer relationship, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and trademark will continue to be used in our offerings; uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Stock-Based Options and Awards. We recognize the fair value of our stock options and awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the option or award which is the vesting term of generally four years for stock options and restricted stock awards and one year for shares issued pursuant to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The fair value of each option or ESPP share or stock purchase right is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The estimated forfeiture rate applied is based on historical forfeiture rates. We evaluate the forfeiture rates at least annually, or when events or circumstances indicate a change may be needed. This may cause a fluctuation in our stock-based expense in the period of change. Inputs into the Black-Scholes option pricing model include: The estimated life for the stock options which is estimated based on an actual analysis of expected life. The estimated life for shares issued pursuant to our ESPP is based on the two purchase periods within the 12 month offering period; The risk free interest rate which is based on the rate for a U.S. government security with the same estimated life at the time of the option grant and the stock purchase rights; The future stock price volatility which is estimated considering both our observed option-implied volatilities and our historical volatility calculations. We believe this is the best estimate of the expected volatility over the expected life of our stock options and stock purchase rights; and The probability of performance conditions, if any, that affect the vesting of certain awards being achieved. Expense is only recognized for those shares expected to vest. Income Taxes. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in the period that includes the enactment date. At each of the interim financial reporting periods, we compute our tax provision by applying an estimated annual effective tax rate to year to date ordinary income and adjust the provision for discrete tax items recorded in the same period. The estimated annual effective tax rate at each interim period represents our best estimate based on 40 Table of Contents evaluations of possible future transactions and may be subject to subsequent refinement or revision. We consider the valuation allowance in estimating the annual effective tax rate. As a result, the annual effective tax rate could be volatile and is therefore difficult to forecast in future periods. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not expected to be realized based on the weighting of positive and negative evidence. Future realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gain) within the carryback or carryforward periods available under the applicable tax law. We regularly review the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Our judgment regarding future profitability may change due to many factors, including future market conditions and the ability to successfully execute our business plans and tax planning strategies. Should there be a change in the ability to recover deferred tax assets, our income tax provision would increase or decrease in the period in which the assessment is changed. Our tax positions are subject to income tax audits by multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the world. We recognize the tax benefit of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination by the taxing authority, based on the technical merits. The tax benefit recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit which is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement with the taxing authority. We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our income tax provision. Strategic Investments . We report our investments in non-marketable equity and debt securities, which consist of minority equity and debt investments in privately-held companies, at cost or fair value when an event or circumstance indicates an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. Management evaluates financial results, earnings trends, technology milestones and subsequent financing of these companies, as well as the general market conditions to identify indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. In determining the estimated fair value of our strategic investments in privately-held companies, we utilize the most recent data available to us. Valuations of privately-held companies are inherently complex due to the lack of readily available market data. 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Revenues: Subscription and support $ 1,405,287 $ 1,147,306 Professional services and other 105,880 79,466 Total revenues 1,511,167 1,226,772 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 274,241 208,947 Professional services and other 107,561 83,358 Total cost of revenues 381,802 292,305 Gross profit 1,129,365 934,467 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 222,128 188,358 Marketing and sales 736,938 639,355 General and administrative 175,811 162,095 Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net (36,617 ) 0 Total operating expenses 1,098,260 989,808 Income (loss) from operations 31,105 (55,341 ) Investment income 4,561 1,778 Interest expense (16,675 ) (20,359 ) Other expense (1)(3) (918 ) (10,847 ) Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 18,073 (84,769 ) Provision for income taxes (13,981 ) (12,142 ) Net income (loss) $ 4,092 $ (96,911 ) (1) Amounts related to amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations, as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Cost of revenues $ 19,690 $ 28,672 Marketing and sales 20,027 14,965 Other non-operating expense 815 0 (2) Amounts related to stock-based expenses, as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Cost of revenues $ 15,381 $ 11,810 Research and development 31,242 27,284 Marketing and sales 70,534 67,133 General and administrative 25,403 24,865 (3) Amount includes approximately $8.5 million loss on conversions of our convertible 0.75% senior notes due January 2015 recognized during the three months ended April 30, 2014. 42 Table of Contents Revenues by geography were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Americas $ 1,115,120 $ 876,377 Europe 258,805 230,810 Asia Pacific 137,242 119,585 $ 1,511,167 $ 1,226,772 Americas revenue attributed to the United States was approximately 95 percent and 94 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenues: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Revenues: Subscription and support 93 % 94 % Professional services and other 7 6 Total revenues 100 100 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 18 17 Professional services and other 7 7 Total cost of revenues 25 24 Gross profit 75 76 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 15 16 Marketing and sales 49 52 General and administrative 11 13 Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net (2 ) 0 Total operating expenses 73 81 Income (loss) from operations 2 (5 ) Investment income 0 0 Interest expense (1 ) (1 ) Other expense (1) 0 (1 ) Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 1 (7 ) Provision for income taxes (1 ) (1 ) Net income (loss) 0 % (8 )% (1) Amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations as a percentage of total revenues, as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Cost of revenues 1 % 2 % Marketing and sales 1 1 Other non-operating expense 0 0 43 Table of Contents (2) Stock-based expense as a percentage of total revenues, as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Cost of revenues 1 % 1 % Research and development 2 2 Marketing and sales 5 5 General and administrative 2 2 Revenues by geography as a percentage of total revenues, as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Revenues by geography: Americas 74 % 71 % Europe 17 19 Asia Pacific 9 10 100 % 100 % Revenues and deferred revenue in constant currency, as follows: Revenue constant currency growth rates (as compared to the comparable prior periods) Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2013 Americas 27% 39% Europe 28% 35% Asia Pacific 27% 26% Total growth 27% 37% We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than United States dollars are converted into United States dollars at the weighted average exchange rate for the quarter being compared to for growth rate calculations presented, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during that period. April 30, 2015 compared to April 30, 2014 January 31, 2015 compared to January 31, 2014 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent constant currency growth rates (as compared to the comparable prior periods) Total growth 36% 35% To present the information above, we convert the deferred revenue balances in local currencies in previous comparable periods using the United States dollar currency exchange rate as on the most recent balance sheet date. 44 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in thousands) 2015 2014 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 1,405,287 $ 1,147,306 $ 257,981 22% Professional services and other 105,880 79,466 26,414 33% Total revenues $ 1,511,167 $ 1,226,772 $ 284,395 23% Total revenues were $1.5 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $1.2 billion during the same period a year ago, an increase of $0.3 billion , or 23 percent . On a constant currency basis, total revenues grew 27 percent. Subscription and support revenues were $1.4 billion , or 93 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $1.1 billion , or 94 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $0.3 billion , or 22 percent . The increase in subscription and support revenues was due almost entirely to volume-driven increases from new business, which includes new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers. Our attrition rate, which is consistent with the prior year, also played a role in the increase in subscription and support revenues. We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives, which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped maintain our attrition rate. The net price per user per month for our three primary offerings, Professional Edition, Enterprise Edition and Unlimited Edition, varies from period to period, but has remained within a consistent range over the past eight quarters. Changes in the net price per user per month has not been a significant driver of revenue growth for the periods presented. Professional services and other revenues were $105.9 million , or seven percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $79.5 million , or six percent of total revenues, for the same period a year ago, an increase of $26.4 million , or 33 percent . The increase in professional services and other revenues was primarily attributable to higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. Revenues in Europe and Asia Pacific accounted for $396.0 million , or 26 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $350.4 million , or 29 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $45.7 million , or 13 percent . The increase in revenues on a total dollar basis outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our service, our focus on marketing our services internationally, additional resources and consistent attrition rates as a result of the reasons stated above. Revenues outside of the Americas increased on a total dollar basis in the three months ended April 30, 2015 despite an overall strengthening of the U.S. dollar, which reduced aggregate international revenues by $52.0 million compared to the same period a year ago. We expect revenues outside of the Americas to continue to be negatively impacted in fiscal 2016 by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro, Japanese yen, Australian dollar and British pound in comparison to similar periods in the prior year. Cost of Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Subscription and support $ 274,241 $ 208,947 $ 65,294 Professional services and other 107,561 83,358 24,203 Total cost of revenues $ 381,802 $ 292,305 $ 89,497 Percent of total revenues 25 % 24 % 45 Table of Contents Cost of revenues was $381.8 million , or 25 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $292.3 million , or 24 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $89.5 million . The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $26.6 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $3.6 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $36.5 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, an increase of $15.3 million in professional and outside services, an increase of $5.5 million in allocated overhead and an increase of $10.8 million in depreciation of property and equipment, offset by a decrease of $9.0 million in amortization of purchased intangibles. We have increased our headcount by 24 percent since April 30, 2014 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity. Additionally, the amortization of purchased intangible assets may increase as we acquire additional businesses and technologies. We also plan to add additional employees in our professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues in future periods. The cost of professional services and other revenues exceeded the related revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2015 by $1.7 million as compared to $3.9 million during the same period a year ago. We expect the cost of professional services to continue to exceed revenue from professional services in future fiscal quarters. We believe that this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings. Research and Development. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Research and development $ 222,128 $ 188,358 $ 33,770 Percent of total revenues 15 % 16 % Research and development expenses were $222.1 million , or 15 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $188.4 million , or 16 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $33.8 million . The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $23.6 million in employee-related costs, an increase of of $4.0 million in stock-based expense, an increase of $2.7 million in development and test data center expense and an increase of $3.5 million in allocated overhead. We increased our research and development headcount by 21 percent since April 30, 2014 in order to improve and extend our service offerings and develop new technologies. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to add employees and invest in technology to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired technologies. Marketing and Sales. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Marketing and sales $ 736,938 $ 639,355 $ 97,583 Percent of total revenues 49 % 52 % Marketing and sales expenses were $736.9 million , or 49 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $639.4 million , or 52 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $97.6 million . The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $64.7 million in employee-related costs of which $17.3 million was due to increased amortization of deferred commissions, an increase of $3.4 million in stock-based expense, an increase of $12.9 million in advertising expenses and event costs, an increase of $5.1 million due to amortization of purchased intangibles, an increase of $5.7 million in professional and outside services and an increase of $5.7 million in allocated overhead. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by 18 percent since April 30, 2014 . The increase in headcount was primarily attributable to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. 46 Table of Contents General and Administrative. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 General and administrative $ 175,811 $ 162,095 $ 13,716 Percent of total revenues 11 % 13 % General and administrative expenses were $175.8 million , or 11 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to $162.1 million , or 13 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $13.7 million . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $6.9 million in employee-related costs and an increase of $4.9 million in professional services expense. Our general and administrative headcount increased by nine percent since April 30, 2014 as we added personnel to support our growth. Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net $ (36,617 ) $ 0 $ (36,617 ) Percent of total revenues (2 )% 0 % Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was $36.6 million . In connection with the purchase, we recognized a net non-cash gain totaling approximately $36.6 million on the termination of the lease signed in January 2012. Income (loss) from operations. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Income (loss) from operations $ 31,105 $ (55,341 ) $ 86,446 Percent of total revenues 2 % (5 )% Income from operations for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was $31.1 million and included $142.6 million of stock-based expenses, $39.7 million of amortization of purchased intangibles and a $36.6 non-cash, one-time net gain from the operating lease termination described above. During the same period a year ago, loss from operations was $55.3 million and included $131.1 million of stock-based expenses and $43.6 million of amortization of purchased intangibles. Investment income. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Investment income $ 4,561 $ 1,778 $ 2,783 Investment income consists of income on our cash and marketable securities balances. Investment income was $4.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and was $1.8 million during the same period a year ago. The increase was due to earnings on higher cash and marketable securities balances and $1.5 million of higher realized net gains. Interest expense. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Interest expense $ (16,675 ) $ (20,359 ) $ 3,684 Percent of total revenues (1 )% (1 )% 47 Table of Contents Interest expense consists of interest on our convertible senior notes, capital leases, loan assumed on 50 Fremont and revolving credit facility. Interest expense, net of interest costs capitalized, was $16.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and was $20.4 million during the same period a year ago. The decrease was primarily due to the maturity of our 0.75% convertible senior notes during fiscal 2015. Other expense. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Other expense $ (918 ) $ (10,847 ) $ 9,929 Other expense primarily consists of non-operating costs such as foreign currency transaction gains and losses, costs associated with real estate transactions and losses on derecognition of debt. Other expense for the three months ended April 30, 2014 includes an $8.5 million loss on conversions of the convertible 0.75% Senior Notes due January 2015. Provision for income taxes. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in thousands) 2015 2014 Provision for income taxes $ (13,981 ) $ (12,142 ) $ (1,839 ) Effective tax rate 77 % (14 )% We reported a tax provision of $14.0 million on a pretax income of $18.1 million , which resulted in an effective tax rate of 77 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . The tax provision recorded was primarily related to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside of the U.S. We recorded a tax expense of $12.1 million with a pretax loss of $84.8 million , which resulted in an effective tax rate of negative 14 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The tax provision recorded was related to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside the U.S. and the current tax expense in the U.S. We incurred a U.S. current tax expense as a result of forecasted taxable income before considering certain excess tax benefits from stock options and vesting of restricted stock. This U.S. current tax expense was partially offset by tax benefit attributable to losses in certain U.S. states with no valuation allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 30, 2015 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1.9 billion and accounts receivable of $0.9 billion . Net cash provided by operating activities was $730.9 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 and $473.1 million during the same period a year ago. Cash provided by operating activities has historically been affected by the amount of net income (loss) adjusted for non-cash expense items such as depreciation and amortization, amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations, amortization of debt discount, discrete items such as the non-cash gain from termination of 50 Fremont lease, net and the expense associated with stock-based awards; the reclassification of excess tax benefits from employee stock plans to cash flows from financing activities; the timing of employee related costs including commissions and bonus payments; the timing of collections from our customers, which is our largest source of operating cash flows; and changes in working capital accounts. Our working capital accounts consist of accounts receivables and prepaid assets and other current assets. Claims against working capital include accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and payments related to our convertible senior notes and loan secured by 50 Fremont. Our working capital may be impacted by factors in future periods, certain amounts and timing of which are seasonal, such as billings to customers for subscriptions and support services and the subsequent collection of those billings. As described above in Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable, our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals, and correspondingly the first quarter for cash collections. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall business causes both the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter and cash collections in the first quarter to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. 48 Table of Contents We generally invoice our customers for our subscription and services contracts in advance in annual installments. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. Such invoice amounts are initially reflected in accounts receivable and deferred revenue, which is reflected on the balance sheets. The operating cash flow benefit of increased billing activity generally occurs in the subsequent quarter when we collect from our customers. As such, our first quarter has become our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased $257.8 million over the same period a year ago primarily due to higher collections from our fourth quarter billing activity than in the prior year and higher net income after adjusting for depreciation and amortization, discrete items such as the gain on office lease termination and loss on conversions of convertible senior notes, stock-based expenses and the timing of payments against accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Net cash used in investing activities was $536.1 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 and $210.4 million during the same period a year ago. The net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2015 primarily related to the purchase of 50 Fremont, strategic investments and capital expenditures including new office build-outs and investment of cash balances offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities. Net cash used in financing activities was $157.6 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $219.2 million during the same period a year ago. Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2015 consisted primarily of $16.8 million of principal payments on capital leases and $300.0 million of payments on our revolving credit facility, offset by $155.0 million from proceeds from equity plans. In March 2013, we issued $1.15 billion of 0.25% convertible senior notes due in April 2018 (the Notes) and concurrently entered into convertible notes hedges (the 0.25% Note Hedges) and separate warrant transactions (the Warrants). The Notes will mature in April 2018, unless earlier converted. Upon conversion of any Notes, we will deliver cash up to the principal amount of the Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Notes, shares of our common stock, cash, or a combination of both. The Notes will be convertible if during any 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days of any fiscal quarter, our common stock trades at a price exceeding 130% of the conversion price of $66.44 per share applicable to the Notes. The Notes have not yet been convertible at the holders option. The Notes are classified as a noncurrent liability on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2015 . Our common stock did not trade at a price exceeding 130% of the conversion price of $66.44 per share applicable to the Notes during the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2015 . Accordingly, the Notes will not be convertible at the holders option for the quarter ending July 31, 2015, and will remain classified as a noncurrent liability on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. In October 2014, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) which provides for a $650.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) that matures in October 2019. In March 2015, we paid down the $300.0 million of outstanding borrowings held under the Credit Facility and related interest in full. We may use any future borrowings under the Credit Facility for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted acquisitions. We may borrow amounts under the Credit Facility at any time during the term of the Credit Agreement. We may also prepay the borrowings under the Credit Facility, in whole or in part, at any time without premium or penalty, subject to certain conditions, and amounts repaid or prepaid may be reborrowed. The Credit Agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants, including a consolidated leverage ratio covenant, a consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant, a limit on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, dispose of assets, make certain acquisition transactions, pay dividends or distributions, and certain other restrictions on our activities each defined specifically in the Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with the Credit Agreements covenants as of April 30, 2015 . In December 2014 , the Company entered into an agreement with a third-party provider under which the Company will purchase certain infrastructure services for three years . The agreement provides that the Company will pay $33.0 million in fiscal 2016 and $36.0 million in both fiscal 2017 and 2018 for infrastructure services under the agreement. In February 2015, the Company acquired 50 Fremont Street, a 41-story building totaling approximately 817,000 rentable square feet located in San Francisco, California (50 Fremont). At the time of the acquisition, the Company was leasing approximately 500,000 square feet of the available space in 50 Fremont. See Note 4 Business Combinations in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents The total purchase price for 50 Fremont was $637.6 million . In financing the purchase price, we used $115.0 million of restricted cash on hand and assumed a $200.0 million loan secured by the property with the remainder paid in cash. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and other obligations, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency obligations, government obligations, collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage backed securities, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. As of April 30, 2015 , we have a total of $67.9 million in letters of credit outstanding in favor of certain landlords for office space. To date, no amounts have been drawn against the letters of credit, which renew annually and expire at various dates through December 2030. We do not have any special purpose entities, and other than operating leases for office space and computer equipment, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space, co-location data center facilities, and our development and test data center, as well as leases for computer equipment, software, furniture and fixtures. At April 30, 2015 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows (in thousands): Capital Leases Operating Leases Financing Obligation, Building in Progress-Leased Facility Fiscal Period: Remaining nine months of fiscal 2016 $ 86,398 $ 227,050 $ 1,777 Fiscal 2017 114,874 287,795 16,877 Fiscal 2018 119,086 244,615 21,107 Fiscal 2019 113,005 188,841 21,551 Fiscal 2020 201,507 181,765 21,995 Thereafter 0 1,052,718 252,517 Total minimum lease payments 634,870 $ 2,182,784 $ 335,824 Less: amount representing interest (81,799 ) Present value of capital lease obligations $ 553,071 The majority of our operating lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these options and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations. The financing obligation above represents the total obligation for our lease of approximately 445,000 rentable square feet of office space in San Francisco, California. As of April 30, 2015 , $145.3 million of the total obligation noted above was recorded to Financing obligation, building in progress - leased facility, which is included in Other noncurrent liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the remaining nine months of fiscal 2016 and in future fiscal years, we have made and expect to continue to make additional investments in our infrastructure to scale our operations and increase productivity. We plan to upgrade or replace various internal systems to scale with the overall growth of the Company. Additionally, we expect capital expenditures to be higher in absolute dollars and remain consistent as a percentage of total revenues in future periods as a result of continued office build-outs, other leasehold improvements and data center investments. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses or joint ventures, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities and cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt repayment needs over the next 12 months. 50 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncement In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09) which amended the existing FASB Accounting Standards Codification. This standard establishes a principle for recognizing revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers, in an amount that reflects the expected consideration received in exchange for those goods or services. The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts. In April 2015, the FASB proposed a one-year deferral of the effective date for the new revenue reporting standard for entities reporting under U.S. GAAP. In accordance with the deferral, ASU 2014-09 will be effective for fiscal 2019 , including interim periods within that reporting period. We are currently in the process of assessing the adoption methodology, which allows the amendment to be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented, or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. We are also evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 on our condensed consolidated financial statements and have not determined whether the effect will be material to either our revenue results or our deferred commissions balances. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Commission Filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. We use the non-GAAP measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP net income to provide an additional view of operational performance by excluding expenses and benefits that are not directly related to performance in any particular period. In addition to our GAAP measures we use these non-GAAP measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude certain expenses and benefits. These items are excluded because the decisions which gave rise to them are not made to increase revenue in a particular period, but are made for our long-term benefit over multiple periods and we are not able to change or affect these items in any particular period. We define non-GAAP net income as our total net income excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating the impact of certain items to our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as us, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the impact of these items on our gross margin and operating performance. Additionally, as significant, unusual or discrete events occur, the results may be excluded in the period in which the events occur. Stock-Based Expense . The Companys compensation strategy includes the use of stock-based compensation to attract and retain employees and executives. It is principally aimed at aligning their interests with those of our stockholders and at long-term employee retention, rather than to motivate or reward operational performance for any particular period. Thus, stock-based expense varies for reasons that are generally unrelated to operational decisions and performance in any particular period. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles and Acquired Leases. The Company views amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts, trade names, customer lists, customer relationships and acquired lease intangibles, as items arising from pre-acquisition activities determined at the time of an acquisition. While these intangible assets are continually evaluated for impairment, amortization of the cost of purchased intangibles is a static expense, one that is not typically affected by operations during any particular period. 51 Table of Contents Amortization of Debt Discount. Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuers non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, for GAAP purposes we are required to recognize imputed interest expense on the Companys $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes due 2018 that were issued in a private placement in March 2013. The imputed interest rate was approximately 2.53% for the convertible notes due 2018, while the actual coupon interest rate of the notes was 0.25%. The difference between the imputed interest expense and the coupon interest expense, net of the interest amount capitalized, is excluded from managements assessment of the Companys operating performance because management believes that this non-cash expense is not indicative of ongoing operating performance. Management believes that the exclusion of the non-cash interest expense provides investors an enhanced view of the Companys operational performance. Non-Cash Gains/Losses on Conversion of Debt. Upon settlement of the Companys convertible senior notes, we attribute the fair value of the consideration transferred to the liability and equity components of the convertible senior notes. The difference between the fair value of consideration attributed to the liability component and the carrying value of the liability as of settlement date is recorded as a non-cash gain or loss on the statement of operations. Management believes that the exclusion of the non-cash gain/loss provides investors an enhanced view of the companys operational performance. Gain on Sales of Land and Building Improvements. The Company views the non-operating gains associated with the sales of the land and building improvements at Mission Bay to be a discrete item. Management believes that the exclusion of the gains provides investors an enhanced view of the Companys operational performance. Lease Termination Resulting from Purchase of Office Building. The Company views the non-cash, one-time gain associated with the termination of its lease at 50 Fremont to be a discrete item. Management believes that the exclusion of the gains provides investors an enhanced view of the Companys operational performance. Income Tax Effects and Adjustments . During fiscal 2015 , the Company began to compute and utilize a fixed long-term projected non-GAAP tax rate in order to provide better consistency across the interim reporting periods by eliminating the effects of non-recurring and period-specific items such as changes in the tax valuation allowance and tax effects of acquisitions-related costs, since each of these items can vary in size and frequency. When projecting this long-term rate, the Company evaluated a three-year financial projection that excludes the impact of the following non-cash items: stock-based expense, amortization of purchased intangibles, amortization of acquired leases, amortization of debt discount, gains/losses on sales of land and building improvements, gains/losses on conversions of debt, and termination of office leases. The projected rate also assumes no new acquisitions in the three-year period, and takes into account other factors including the Companys current tax structure, its existing tax positions in various jurisdictions and key legislation in major jurisdictions where the Company operates. The non-GAAP tax rate for both fiscal 2016 and 2015 is 36.5%. The Company re-evaluates this long-term rate on an annual basis or if any significant events that may materially affect this long-term rate occur. This long-term rate could be subject to change for a variety of reasons, for example, significant changes in the geographic earnings mix including acquisition activity, or fundamental tax law changes in major jurisdictions where the Company operates. We define non-GAAP gross profit as our total revenues less cost of revenues, as reported on our condensed consolidated statement of operations, excluding the portions of stock-based expenses and amortization of purchased intangibles that are included in cost of revenues. We define non-GAAP operating profit as our non-GAAP gross profit less operating expenses, as reported on our condensed consolidated statement of operations, excluding the portions of stock-based expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles and gain resulting from termination of our office lease that are included in operating expenses. Non-GAAP earnings per share Management uses the non-GAAP earnings per share to provide an additional view of performance by excluding items that are not directly related to performance in any particular period in the earnings per share calculation. We define non-GAAP earnings per share as our non-GAAP net income, which excludes the above components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses, divided by basic or diluted shares outstanding. 52 Table of Contents Limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of stock-based expense, if we did not pay a portion of compensation in the form of stock-based expense, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share to the most comparable GAAP financial measure. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. Our reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures of gross profit, operating profit, net income and earnings per share to the most comparable GAAP measure, gross profit, income(loss) from operations, net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 are as follows (in thousands, except for share numbers): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Gross profit GAAP gross profit $ 1,129,365 $ 934,467 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 19,690 28,672 Stock-based expense 15,381 11,810 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 1,164,436 $ 974,949 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Income from operations GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 31,105 $ (55,341 ) Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 39,717 43,637 Stock-based expense 142,560 131,092 Less: Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net (36,617 ) 0 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 176,765 $ 119,388 53 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Net income GAAP net income (loss) $ 4,092 $ (96,911 ) Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 39,717 43,637 Amortization of acquired lease intangible 815 0 Stock-based expense 142,560 131,092 Amortization of debt discount, net 6,059 10,984 Loss on conversion of debt 0 8,529 Less: Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net (36,617 ) 0 Income tax effects and adjustments (48,291 ) (27,815 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 108,335 $ 69,516 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share GAAP diluted income (loss) per share (a) $ 0.01 $ (0.16 ) Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.06 0.07 Amortization of acquired lease intangible 0.00 0.00 Stock-based expenses 0.21 0.20 Amortization of debt discount, net 0.01 0.02 Loss on conversion of debt 0.00 0.01 Less: Operating lease termination resulting from purchase of 50 Fremont, net (0.06 ) 0.00 Income tax effects and adjustments of Non-GAAP items (0.07 ) (0.03 ) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 0.16 $ 0.11 Shares used in computing diluted net income per share 664,310 648,000 a) Reported GAAP loss per share was calculated using the basic share count. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was calculated using the diluted share count. Non-GAAP operating profit for the quarter ended April 30, 2015 was $176.8 million and $119.4 million for the same period a year ago, an increase of $57.4 million or 48 percent. During the first quarter of fiscal 2016 we remained focused on improving non-GAAP operating profit and expect to remain similarly focused for the remaining nine months of fiscal 2016. The effects of dilutive securities were not included in the GAAP calculation of diluted earnings/loss per share for the three months ended April 30, 2014 because we had a net loss for the period and the effect would have been anti-dilutive. The following table reflects the effect of the dilutive securities on the basic share count used in the GAAP earnings/loss per share calculation to derive the share count used for the non-GAAP diluted earnings per share: 54 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, Supplemental Diluted Sharecount Information (in thousands): 2015 2014 Weighted-average shares outstanding for GAAP basic earnings per share 653,809 612,512 Effect of dilutive securities (1): Convertible senior notes (2) 0 8,495 Warrants associated with the convertible senior note hedges (2) 0 13,220 Employee stock awards 10,501 13,773 Adjusted weighted-average shares outstanding and assumed conversions for Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share 664,310 648,000 (1) The effects of these dilutive securities were not included in the GAAP calculation of diluted net loss per share for the three months ended April 30, 2014 because the effect would have been anti-dilutive. (2) Upon maturity in fiscal 2015, the convertible 0.75% senior notes and associated warrants were settled. The 0.25% senior notes were not convertible, therefore no dilutive effect for shares outstanding for the three months ended April 30, 2015.