ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, assumes, may, should, could, would, foresees, forecasts, predicts, targets, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which may consist of, among other things, trend analyses and statements regarding future events, future financial performance, anticipated growth and industry prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and forecasts, as well as the beliefs and assumptions of our management, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including: the effect of general economic and market conditions; the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results; our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be the leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms; the pace of change and innovation in enterprise cloud computing services; the competitive nature of the market in which we participate; our international expansion strategy; our service performance and security, including the resources and costs required to prevent, detect and remediate potential security breaches; the expenses associated with new data centers and third-party infrastructure providers; additional data center capacity; real estate and office facilities space; our operating results and cash flows; new services and product features; our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services, technologies and intellectual property rights; the performance and fair value of our investments in complementary businesses through our strategic investment portfolio; our ability to realize the benefits from strategic partnerships and investments; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; our ability to continue to grow and maintain unearned revenue and remaining transaction price; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to develop our brands; our reliance on third-party hardware, software and platform providers; our dependency on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet; the effect of evolving domestic and foreign government regulations, including those related to the provision of services on the Internet, those related to accessing the Internet, and those addressing data privacy, cross-border data transfers and import and export controls; the valuation of our deferred tax assets; the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and tax laws, including the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and interpretations thereof; uncertainties affecting our ability to estimate our tax rate; the impact of expensing stock options and other equity awards; the sufficiency of our capital resources; factors related to our 2023 and 2028 senior notes, revolving credit facility, 2019 term loan and loan associated with 50 Fremont; compliance with our debt covenants and capital lease obligations; current and potential litigation involving us; and the impact of climate change. These and other risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report for additional detail regarding factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions, with a focus on customer relationship management, or CRM. We introduced our first CRM solution in 2000, and we have since expanded our service offerings with new editions, features and platform capabilities. Our core mission is to empower our customers to connect with their customers in entirely new ways through cloud, mobile, social, Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence technologies. Our Customer Success Platform - including sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, digital commerce, community management, industry-specific solutions, analytics, integration solutions, application development, IoT integration, collaborative productivity tools, our AppExchange, which is our enterprise cloud marketplace, and our professional cloud services - provides the tools customers need to succeed in a digital world. Key elements of our strategy include: cross sell and upsell; extend existing service offerings; reduce customer attrition; expand and strengthen the partner ecosystem; expand internationally; target vertical industries; expand into new horizontal markets; extend go-to-market capabilities; ensure strong customer adoption; and 34 Table of Contents encourage the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platform. We are also committed to a sustainable, low-carbon future, advancing equality and diversity, and fostering employee success. We try to integrate social good into everything we do. All of these goals align with our long-term growth strategy and financial and operational priorities. We believe the factors that will influence our ability to achieve our objectives include: our prospective customers willingness to migrate to enterprise cloud computing services; our ability to maintain a balanced portfolio of products and customers; the availability, performance and security of our service; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of new and improved features; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; successful customer adoption and utilization of our service; our ability to continue to meet new and evolving privacy laws and regulations, acceptance of our service in markets where we have few customers; the emergence of additional competitors in our market and improved product offerings by existing and new competitors; the location of new data centers that we operate as well as the new locations of services provided by third-party cloud computing platform providers; third-party developers willingness to develop applications on our platforms; our ability to attract new personnel and retain and motivate current personnel; and general economic conditions which could affect our customers ability and willingness to purchase our services, delay the customers purchasing decision or affect attrition rates. To address these factors, we will need to, among other things, continue to add substantial numbers of paying subscriptions, upgrade our customers to fully featured versions or arrangements such as an Enterprise License Agreement, provide high quality technical support to our customers, encourage the development of third-party applications on our platforms, realize the benefits from our strategic partnerships and continue to focus on retaining customers at the time of renewal. Our plans to invest for future growth include the continuation of the expansion of our data center capacity, whether internally or through the use of third parties, the hiring of additional personnel, particularly in direct sales, other customer-related areas and research and development, the expansion of domestic and international selling and marketing activities, specifically in our top markets, the continued development of our brands, the addition of distribution channels, the upgrade of our service offerings, the continued development of services including Community Cloud, Industry Clouds, Success Cloud and Integration Cloud, the integration of new and acquired technologies such as Commerce Cloud, artificial intelligence technologies and Salesforce Quip, the expansion of our Marketing Cloud and Salesforce Platform core service offerings, and the additions to our global infrastructure to support our growth. We also regularly evaluate acquisitions or investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our service offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future and we plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in future periods to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, e-commerce, artificial intelligence, IoT and collaborative productivity tools. We drive innovation organically and to a lesser extent through acquisitions, such as our May 2018 acquisition of MuleSoft, Inc. We have a disciplined and thoughtful acquisition process where we routinely survey the industry landscape across a wide range of companies. As a result of our aggressive growth plans and integration of our previously acquired businesses, we have incurred significant expenses from equity awards and amortization of purchased intangibles, which have reduced our operating income. We remain focused on improving operating margins in fiscal 2019 and beyond. Our typical subscription contract term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months, so during any fiscal reporting period only a subset of active subscription contracts is eligible for renewal. We calculate our attrition rate as of the end of each month. Our attrition rate, including the Marketing Cloud service offering but excluding our Commerce Cloud serving offering, was less than ten percent as of April 30, 2018 . While it is difficult to predict, we expect our attrition rate to remain consistent as we continue to expand our enterprise business and invest in customer success and related programs. We expect marketing and sales costs, which were 44 percent and 46 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, to continue to represent a substantial portion of total revenues in the future as we seek to grow our customer base, sell more products to existing customers, and continue to build greater brand awareness. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2019 , for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2019 . 35 Table of Contents Adoption of New Accounting Standards We have adjusted our condensed consolidated financial statements from amounts previously reported due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). The information presented reflects the adjusted amounts as compared to those previously reported. In addition, we have prospectively adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, "Financial Instrument-Overall (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01") and Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-16, "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory" ("ASU 2016-16") Operating Segments We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who in our case is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Over the past few years, we have completed a number of acquisitions. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the enterprise cloud computing market. While we have offerings in multiple enterprise cloud computing market segments, including as a result of our acquisitions, our business operates in one operating segment because the majority of our offerings operate on a single platform and are deployed in an identical way, and our chief operating decision maker evaluates our financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. We expect to continue to operate as one segment after the MuleSoft acquisition. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements. Sources of Revenues We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services and from customers paying for additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fees; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 93 percent of our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Subscription revenues are driven primarily by the number of paying subscribers, varying service types, the price of our service and renewals. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity (e.g., a company, a distinct business unit of a large corporation, a partnership, etc.) that has entered into a contract to access our enterprise cloud computing services. We define a subscription as a unique user account purchased by a customer for use by its employees or other customer-authorized users, and we refer to each such user as a subscriber. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 . Subscription and support revenues are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contract. The typical subscription and support term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months. Our subscription and support contracts are non-cancelable, though customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we materially fail to perform. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in unearned revenue, or in revenue depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period. Professional services and other revenues consist of fees associated with consulting and implementation services and training. Our consulting and implementation engagements are billed on a time and materials, fixed fee or subscription basis. We also offer a number of training classes on implementing, using and administering our service that are billed on a per person, per class basis. Our typical professional services payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. In determining whether professional services can be accounted for separately from subscription and support revenues, we consider a number of factors, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies. Revenue by Cloud Service Offering The information below is provided on a supplemental basis to give additional insight into the revenue performance of our individual core service offerings. All of the cloud offerings that we offer to customers are grouped into four major cloud service offerings. Subscription and support revenues consisted of the following (in millions): 36 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 Variance- Percent Sales Cloud $ 965 $ 830 16% Service Cloud 848 656 29% Salesforce Platform and Other 575 424 36% Marketing and Commerce Cloud 422 299 41% Total $ 2,810 $ 2,209 Subscription and support revenues from the Community Cloud, Quip and our Industry Offerings were not significant in the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Quip revenue is included with Salesforce Platform and Other in the table above. Our Industry Offerings and Community Cloud revenue are included in either Sales Cloud, Service Cloud or Salesforce Platform and Other depending on the primary service offering purchased. In situations where a customer purchases multiple cloud offerings, such as through an Enterprise License Agreement, we allocate the contract value to each core service offering based on the customers estimated product demand plan, the service that was provided at the inception of the contract and standalone selling price ("SSP") of those products. We do not update these allocations based on actual product usage during the term of the contract. We have allocated approximately 17 percent and 14 percent of our total subscription and support revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, based on customers estimated product demand plans and these allocated amounts are included in the table above. Additionally, some of our service offerings have similar features and functions. For example, customers may use the Sales Cloud, the Service Cloud or the Salesforce Platform to record account and contact information, which are similar features across these core service offerings. Depending on a customers actual and projected business requirements, more than one core service offering may satisfy the customers current and future needs. We record revenue based on the individual products ordered by a customer, not according to the customers business requirements and usage. In addition, as we introduce new features and functions within each offering and refine our allocation methodology for changes in our business, we do not expect it to be practical to adjust historical revenue results by service offering for comparability. Accordingly, comparisons of revenue performance by core service offering over time may not be meaningful. Our Sales Cloud service offering is our most widely distributed service offering and has historically been the largest contributor of subscription and support revenues. As a result, Sales Cloud has the most international exposure and foreign exchange rate exposure relative to the other cloud service offerings. Conversely, revenue for Marketing and Commerce Cloud is primarily derived from the Americas with little impact from foreign exchange rate movement. The revenue growth rates of each of our core service offerings fluctuate from quarter to quarter and over time. While we are a market leader in each core offering, we manage the total balanced product portfolio to deliver solutions to our customers. Accordingly, the revenue result for each cloud service offering is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any subsequent quarter. Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow Unearned revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in annual cycles. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. This may result in an increase in unearned revenue and accounts receivable. There is a disproportionate weighting toward annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, because of this billing activity, our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. The sequential quarterly changes in accounts receivable and the related unearned revenue and operating cash flow during the first quarter of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of the billing activity that occurs for the following quarters as displayed below (in millions ): 37 Table of Contents April 30, 2018 Fiscal 2019 Accounts receivable, net $ 1,763 Unearned revenue 6,201 Operating cash flow (1) 1,466 January 31, 2018 October 31, 2017 July 31, 2017 April 30, 2017 Fiscal 2018 Accounts receivable, net $ 3,921 $ 1,522 $ 1,572 $ 1,442 Unearned revenue 6,995 4,312 4,749 4,969 Operating cash flow (1) 1,051 126 331 1,230 (1) Operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended in the periods stated above. The unearned revenue balance on our condensed consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligation is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the timing of renewals, average contract terms and foreign currency exchange rates. Unbilled portions of the remaining transaction price denominated in foreign currencies are revalued each period based on the period end exchange rates. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled balance and corresponding remaining transaction price is typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increases if the agreement is renewed. Low remaining transaction prices attributable to a particular subscription agreement are often associated with an impending renewal and may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. Remaining transaction price consisted of the following (in billions): Current Noncurrent Total As of April 30, 2018 $ 9.6 $ 10.8 $ 20.4 As of April 30, 2017 $ 7.6 $ 7.4 $ 15.0 Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenues Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our service and providing support, the costs of data center capacity, depreciation or operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software, allocated overhead, amortization expense associated with capitalized software related to our services and acquired developed technologies and certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology, services and data. We allocate overhead such as IT infrastructure, rent and occupancy charges based on headcount. Employee benefit costs and taxes are allocated based upon a percentage of total compensation expense. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based expenses, the cost of subcontractors, certain third-party fees and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is higher as a percentage of the related revenue than for our enterprise cloud computing subscription service due to the direct labor costs and costs of subcontractors. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services. For example, we have invested in additional database software and hardware and we plan to increase the capacity that we are able to offer globally through data centers and third-party infrastructure providers. In addition, we intend to continue to invest additional resources in enhancing our security measures. As we acquire new businesses and technologies, the amortization expense associated with the purchase of acquired developed technology will be included in cost of revenues. Additionally, as we enter into new contracts with third parties for the use of their technology, services or data, or as our sales volume grows, the fees paid to use such technology or services may increase. Finally, we expect the cost of professional services to be approximately in line with revenues from professional services as we believe this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service 38 Table of Contents offerings. The timing of these additional expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in the affected periods. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, the costs of our development and test data center and allocated overhead. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and services, integrating acquired technologies, increasing the functionality and security and enhancing the ease of use of our enterprise cloud computing services. Our proprietary, scalable and secure multi-tenant architecture enables us to provide all of our customers with a service based on a single version of our application. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions, which enables us to have relatively lower research and development expenses as compared to traditional enterprise software companies. We expect that in the future, research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in adding employees and building the necessary system infrastructure required to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired businesses, technologies and all of our service offerings. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses are our largest cost and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for our sales and marketing staff, including commissions, as well as payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. We plan to continue to invest in marketing and sales by expanding our domestic and international selling and marketing activities, building brand awareness, attracting new customers and sponsoring additional marketing events. The timing of these marketing events, such as our annual and largest event, Dreamforce, will affect our marketing costs in a particular quarter. In addition, as we acquire new businesses and technologies, a component of the amortization expense associated with this activity will be included in marketing and sales. We expect that in the future, marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest cost. We expect marketing and sales expenses, excluding sales personnel expenses, to grow in line with or at a slower rate than revenues and sales personnel expenses may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, professional fees, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that in the future, general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our infrastructure and we incur additional employee related costs, professional fees and insurance costs related to the growth of our business and international expansion. We expect general and administrative costs as a percentage of total revenues to either remain flat or decrease for the next several quarters. However, the timing of additional expenses in a particular quarter, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, will affect our general and administrative expenses. Stock-Based Expenses Our cost of revenues and operating expenses include stock-based expenses related to equity plans for employees and non-employee directors. We recognize our stock-based compensation as an expense in the statements of operations based on their fair values and vesting periods. These charges have been significant in the past and we expect that they will increase as our stock price increases, as we acquire more companies, as we hire more employees and seek to retain existing employees. During the three months ended April 30, 2018 , we recognized stock-based expense related to our equity plans for employees and non-employee directors of $252 million . As of April 30, 2018 , the aggregate stock compensation remaining to be amortized to costs and expenses was approximately $2.7 billion . We expect this stock compensation balance to be amortized as follows: $847 million during the remaining nine months of fiscal 2019 ; $870 million during fiscal 2020 ; $612 million during fiscal 2021 ; $343 million during fiscal 2022 ; $54 million during fiscal 2023 and $8 million thereafter. The expected amortization reflects only outstanding stock awards as of April 30, 2018 and assumes no forfeiture activity. We expect to continue to issue stock-based awards to our employees in future periods. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Acquired Through Business Combinations Our cost of revenues, operating expenses and other expenses include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys developed technology, trade names and trademarks, 39 Table of Contents customer lists, acquired leases and customer relationships. We expect this expense to fluctuate as we acquire more businesses and intangible assets become fully amortized. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies and specific estimates involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies and estimates we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations: the SSP of performance obligations for contracts with multiple performance obligations; the estimate of variable consideration as part of the adoption of ASU 2014-09; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for business combinations; the recognition, measurement and valuation of current and deferred income taxes; the average period of benefit associated with costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts; the fair value of certain stock awards issued; the useful lives of intangible assets; and the valuation of strategic investments. 40 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in millions ): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 As a % of Total Revenues 2017 As a % of Total Revenues Revenues: Subscription and support $ 2,810 93 % $ 2,209 92 % Professional services and other 196 7 188 8 Total revenues 3,006 100 2,397 100 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 573 19 463 19 Professional services and other 194 7 188 8 Total cost of revenues 767 26 651 27 Gross profit 2,239 74 1,746 73 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 424 14 376 16 Marketing and sales 1,329 44 1,106 46 General and administrative 295 10 260 11 Total operating expenses 2,048 68 1,742 73 Income from operations 191 6 4 0 Investment income 16 1 5 0 Interest expense (34 ) (1 ) (22 ) 0 Gains on strategic investments, net 211 7 3 0 Other income 1 0 0 0 Income (loss) before (provision for) benefit from income taxes 385 13 (10 ) 0 (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (41 ) (2 ) 11 0 Net income $ 344 11 % $ 1 0 % (1) Amounts related to amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, as follows (in millions ): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 As a % of Total Revenues 2017 As a % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 39 1 % $ 44 2 % Marketing and sales 30 1 31 1 (2) Amounts related to stock-based expenses, as follows (in millions ): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 As a % of Total Revenues 2017 As a % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 34 1 % $ 32 1 % Research and development 66 2 64 3 Marketing and sales 120 4 119 5 General and administrative 32 1 37 2 41 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in millions) 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 2,810 $ 2,209 $ 601 27% Professional services and other 196 188 8 4% Total revenues $ 3,006 $ 2,397 $ 609 25% Total revenues were $3.0 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $2.4 billion during the same period a year ago, an increase of $609 million , or 25 percent . Subscription and support revenues were $2.8 billion , or 93 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $2.2 billion , or 92 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $601 million , or 27 percent . The increase in subscription and support revenues was primarily caused by volume-driven increases from new business, which includes new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers. We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped keep our attrition rate consistent as compared to the prior year. Consistent attrition rates play a role in our ability to maintain growth in our subscription and support revenues. Changes in the net price per user per month have not been a significant driver of revenue growth for the periods presented. Professional services and other revenues were $196 million , or seven percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $188 million , or eight percent of total revenues, for the same period a year ago, an increase of $8 million , or four percent . The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. Revenues by geography were as follows : Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2018 As a % of Total Revenues 2017 As a % of Total Revenues Americas $ 2,101 70 % $ 1,765 74 % Europe 606 20 409 17 Asia Pacific 299 10 223 9 $ 3,006 100 % $ 2,397 100 % Revenues by geography are determined based on the region of the Salesforce contracting entity, which may be different than the region of the customer. Americas revenue attributed to the United States was approximately 96 percent and 96 percent during the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Revenues in Europe and Asia Pacific accounted for $905 million , or 30 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $632 million , or 26 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $273 million , or 43 percent . The increase in revenues outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our services, our focus on marketing our services internationally and additional resources. Revenues outside of the Americas increased on a total dollar basis by $78 million in the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to the same period a year ago primarily as a result of the strengthening British Pound Sterling. Cost of Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in millions) 2018 2017 Dollars Subscription and support $ 573 $ 463 $ 110 Professional services and other 194 188 6 Total cost of revenues $ 767 $ 651 $ 116 Percent of total revenues 26 % 27 % Cost of revenues was $767 million , or 26 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $651 million , or 27 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $116 million . For the three months ended April 30, 2018 , the increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $35 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $2 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $73 million in service delivery costs, primarily 42 Table of Contents due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, and an increase of $3 million in allocated overhead offset by a decrease of amortization of purchased intangible assets of $5 million . We have increased our headcount by nine percent since April 30, 2017 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity. We also plan to add additional employees in our professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues in future periods. The cost of professional services and other revenues was $194 million during the three months ended April 30, 2018 resulting in positive gross margins of $2 million . The cost of professional services and other revenues was $188 million during the three months ended April 30, 2017 resulting in break-even gross margins. We expect the cost of professional services to be approximately in line with revenues from professional services in future fiscal quarters. We believe that this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings. Operating Expenses. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in millions) 2018 2017 Dollars Research and development $ 424 $ 376 $ 48 Marketing and sales 1,329 1,106 223 General and administrative 295 260 35 Total operating expenses $ 2,048 $ 1,742 $ 306 Percent of total revenues 68 % 73 % Research and development expenses were $424 million , or 14 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $376 million , or 16 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $48 million . For the three months ended April 30, 2018 , the increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of approximately $42 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $2 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in our development and test data center costs and allocated overhead. We increased our research and development headcount by 10 percent since April 30, 2017 in order to improve and extend our service offerings, develop new technologies and integrate previously acquired companies, including our fiscal 2017 acquisitions. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to invest in additional employees and technology to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired technologies. Marketing and sales expenses were $1.3 billion , or 44 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $1.1 billion , or 46 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $223 million . For the three months ended April 30, 2018 , the increase was primarily due to an increase of $186 million in employee-related costs and amortization of costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, an increase of $1 million in stock-based expenses and an increase of $16 million in advertising expenses. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by 19 percent since April 30, 2017 . The increase in headcount was primarily attributable to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. General and administrative expenses were $295 million , or 10 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , compared to $260 million , or 11 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $35 million . The increase s were primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs as well as transaction costs related to the acquisition of MuleSoft. Our general and administrative headcount increased by 17 percent since April 30, 2017 as we added personnel to support our growth. Other income and expense. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in millions) 2018 2017 Dollars Investment income $ 16 $ 5 $ 11 Interest expense (34 ) (22 ) (12 ) Net gains on strategic investments 211 3 208 Other income 1 0 1 43 Table of Contents Investment income consists of income on our cash and marketable securities balances. Investment income was $16 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 compared to $5 million during the same period a year ago. The increase was due to greater interest income earned in the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Interest expense consists of interest on our debt, capital leases, and financing obligation related to 350 Mission. Interest expense was $34 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 compared to $22 million during the same period a year ago. The increase was primarily driven by costs associated with the Bridge Facility of approximately $11 million and interest expense on the 2023 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes of approximately $5 million . We expect interest expense to increase in future quarters as a result of the 2023 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes. Net gains on strategic investments consists primarily of mark-to-market adjustments related to our publicly held equity securities, observable price adjustments related to our privately held equity securities and other adjustments. The adoption of ASU 2016-01 resulted in unrealized gains, net related to our strategic investments of approximately $224 million during the three months ended April 30, 2018 . This gain was primarily driven by initial public offerings of two strategic investments and unrealized gains related thereto of approximately $197 million during the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Other income (expense) primarily consists of non-operating transactions such as gains and losses from foreign exchange rate fluctuations and real estate transactions. (Provision for) benefit from income taxes . Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in millions) 2018 2017 Dollars (Provision for) benefit from income taxes $ (41 ) $ 11 $ (52 ) Effective tax rate 11 % 110 % We recognized a tax provision of $41 million on a pretax income of $385 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . The tax provision recorded was primarily related to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States. We recorded a tax benefit of $11 million on a pretax loss of $10 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017 . On a full year basis, we expected pretax income and projected tax expense primarily related to profitable jurisdictions outside the United States. In addition, the tax benefit included a discrete benefit relating to the realization of certain U.S. state deferred taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 30, 2018 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $7.2 billion and accounts receivable of $1.8 billion. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and obligations, U.S. treasury securities, asset backed securities, foreign government obligations, mortgage backed obligations, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. The overall increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to $2.5 billion in debt raised in April 2018 in contemplation of the acquisition of MuleSoft, Inc. which closed in May 2018. Total cash paid in connection with the acquisition in May 2018 was approximately $4.9 billion , including proceeds from the 2021 Term Loan of $500.0 million, which funded in May 2018. For the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, our cash flows were as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,466 $ 1,230 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 276 (768 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,625 (49 ) Cash provided by operating activities has historically been affected by the amount of net income adjusted for non-cash expense items such as depreciation and amortization; amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations; amortization of debt discount; the expense associated with stock-based awards; net gains on strategic investments; the timing of employee related costs including commissions and bonus payments; the timing of payments against accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities; the timing of collections from our customers, which is our largest source of operating cash flows; the timing of business combination activity and the related integration and transaction costs; and changes in working capital accounts. 44 Table of Contents Our working capital accounts consist of accounts receivable, costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, prepaid assets and other current assets. Claims against working capital include accounts payable, accrued expenses, unearned revenue, and other current liabilities and payments related to our debt obligations. Our working capital may be impacted by factors in future periods such as billings to customers for subscriptions and support services and the subsequent collection of those billings, certain amounts and timing of which are seasonal. Our working capital in some quarters may be impacted by adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements and this impact may increase as our working capital balances increase in our foreign subsidiaries. Our billings are also influenced by new business linearity within the quarters and across quarters. As described above in Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow, our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals and, correspondingly, the first quarter has historically been the strongest for cash collections. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall business causes both the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter and cash collections in the first quarter to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. We generally invoice our customers for our subscription and services contracts in advance in annual installments. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. Such invoice amounts are initially reflected in accounts receivable and unearned revenue, which is reflected on the balance sheets, and as the next billing cycle approaches, the corresponding unearned revenue decreases to zero. The operating cash flow benefit of increased billing activity generally occurs in the subsequent quarter when we collect from our customers. As such, our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. The net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2018 primarily related to sales of marketable securities of $938 million offset by purchases of marketable securities of $263 million , the acquisition of CloudCraze, net of cash acquired for $182 million , purchases of strategic investments of $147 million and new office build outs and capital investments of $122 million . The net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2017 primarily related to purchases of marketable securities of approximately $699 million , new office build-outs and capital investments of $157 million , which were offset by the cash inflows for the period from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $104 million . Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2018 consisted primarily of $2.5 billion from proceeds from issuance of debt, $201 million from proceeds from equity plans offset by $1.0 billion of principal payments on conversions of the 0.25% Senior Notes. Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2017 consisted primarily of $200 million in repayments of debt offset by $160 million from proceeds from equity plans. As of April 30, 2018, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding due in 2019, 2023, and 2028 with a total carrying value of $3.0 billion . In addition, we have senior secured notes outstanding related to our loan on 50 Fremont due in 2023 with a total carrying value of $199 million . We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of April 30, 2018. In March 2013, we issued at par value $1.15 billion of 0.25% convertible senior notes (0.25% Senior Notes), due April 2018, unless earlier purchased by us or converted. During the three months ended April 30, 2018, the outstanding balance of the 0.25% Senior Notes matured and the Company repaid $1.0 billion in cash of principal balance. As of April 30, 2018, all 0.25% Senior Notes had been repaid in full and were no longer outstanding. As of April 30, 2018 , we have a total of $100 million in letters of credit outstanding in favor of certain landlords for office space. To date, no amounts have been drawn against the letters of credit, which renew annually and expire at various dates through December 2030. We do not have any special purpose entities, and other than operating leases for office space and computer equipment, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space, co-location data center facilities and our development and test data center, as well as leases for computer equipment, software, furniture and fixtures, excluding all secured and unsecured debt. At April 30, 2018 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows (in millions ): 45 Table of Contents Capital Leases Operating Leases Financing Obligation - Leased Facility Fiscal Period: Remaining nine months of Fiscal 2019 $ 113 $ 509 $ 16 Fiscal 2020 201 626 22 Fiscal 2021 0 487 23 Fiscal 2022 0 340 23 Fiscal 2023 0 310 24 Thereafter 0 1,264 187 Total minimum lease payments 314 $ 3,536 $ 295 Less: amount representing interest (22 ) Present value of capital lease obligations $ 292 The majority of our operating lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these options and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations. The financing obligation - leased facility above represents the total obligation for our lease of approximately 445,000 rentable square feet of office space at 350 Mission St. ("350 Mission") in San Francisco, California. As of April 30, 2018 , $217 million of the total obligation noted above was recorded to Financing obligation - leased facility, of which the current portion is included in Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and the noncurrent portion is included in Other noncurrent liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Purchase orders are not included in the table above. Our purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum services to be used; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. During fiscal 2019 and in future fiscal years, we have made and expect to continue to make additional investments in our infrastructure to scale our operations, increase productivity and enhance our security measures. We plan to upgrade or replace various internal systems to scale with the overall growth of the Company. Additionally, we expect capital expenditures to be higher in absolute dollars and remain consistent as a percentage of total revenues in future periods as a result of continued office build-outs, other leasehold improvements and data center investments. The Company has entered into various contractual commitments with infrastructure service providers for a total commitment of $2.0 billion . As of April 30, 2018 the total remaining commitment is approximately $1.9 billion and $94 million is remaining to be paid this fiscal year. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. To facilitate these acquisitions or investments, we may seek additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all, which may affect our ability to complete subsequent acquisitions or investments, and which may affect the risks of owning our common stock. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided by operating activities and, if necessary, our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt repayment needs over the next 12 months. We expect our cash tax payments for the next 12 months, primarily from profitable jurisdictions outside of the U.S, to be consistent with those paid in prior years. Additionally, the one-time transition tax under the Tax Act will not have an impact on our cash taxes based on our provisional assessment. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our discussion about new accounting pronouncements adopted and those pending. 46 Table of Contents Environmental, Social and Governance We believe the business of business is improving the state of the world for all of our stakeholders, including our stockholders, customers, employees, partners, community, environment and society. We are committed to creating a sustainable, low-carbon future by delivering a carbon neutral cloud, operating as a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions company and by working to achieve our goal of 100 percent renewable energy for our global operations. In addition, we have spearheaded initiatives to drive equality in four key areas: equal rights, equal pay, equal education and equal opportunity. We also pioneered and have inspired other companies to adopt our 1-1-1 integrated philanthropy model, which leverages 1 percent of a companys equity, employee time and product to help improve communities around the world. Together with the Salesforce Foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, and Salesforce.org, a nonprofit social enterprise, which are not included in our consolidated financial statements, we have given approximately $220 million to charitable organizations, logged more than 3 million employee volunteer hours around the world and provided more than 36,000 nonprofit and higher education organizations with the use of our service offerings for free or at a discount. We leverage a number of communications channels and strategic content to better serve and engage our many stakeholders. Our sustainability website, www.salesforce.com/company/sustainability, provides information regarding our environmental and other sustainability efforts, including our annual impact reports and our environmental policy. At our equality portal, www.salesforce.com/company/equality, our stakeholders can gain insights on our approach to equality, see our company profile by gender, and review our most recent Employer Information Report, which provides a snapshot in time of our U.S. demographics based on categories prescribed by the federal government. In addition, stakeholders can learn about equality through one of our many free Trailheads. Our annual proxy statement, as available on the Investor Relations website, www.investor.salesforce.com, or www.sec.gov, provides additional details on our corporate governance practices, including our board composition. 47 Table of Contents