ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, our expectations and statements regarding our outlook and future revenues, expenses, results of operations, liquidity, plans, strategies and management objectives and any assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements and factors that might cause future actual results to differ materially from our recent results or those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Forward-Looking Information and Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements or our risk factors for any reason. The following section generally discusses fiscal 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2023 and 2022, as well as certain fiscal 2021 items. Discussions of fiscal 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022. Overview Salesforce, Inc. is a global leader in customer relationship management (CRM) technology that brings companies and customers together in the digital age. Founded in 1999, we enable companies of every size and industry to take advantage of 38 Table of Contents powerful technologies to connect to their customers in a whole new way and help them transform their businesses around the customer in this digital-first world. Our Customer 360 platform unites sales, service, marketing, commerce and IT teams by connecting customer data across systems, apps and devices to create a complete view of customers. With this single source of customer truth, teams can be more responsive, productive and efficient, deliver intelligent, personalized experiences across every channel and increase productivity. With Slack, we provide a digital headquarters where companies, employees, governments and stakeholders can create success from anywhere. We continue to focus on several key growth levers, including driving multiple service offering adoption, increasing our penetration with enterprise and international customers and our industry-specific reach with more vertical software solutions. These growth levers often require a more sophisticated go-to-market approach and, as a result, we may incur additional costs upfront to obtain new customers and expand our relationships with existing customers, including additional sales and marketing expenses specific to subscription and support revenue. As a result, we have seen that customers with many of these characteristics drive higher annual revenues and have lower attrition rates than our company average. In addition to our focus on top line growth levers, we are also focused on reducing our operating expenses to improve our operating margin. For example, in January 2023, we announced a restructuring plan (the Plan) intended to reduce operating costs, improve operating margins, and continue advancing our ongoing commitment to profitable growth. The Plan includes a reduction of our workforce by approximately 10 percent and select real estate exits and office space reductions within certain markets. We expect to see improvements in our operating expenses across all operating categories, with the most opportunity in sales and marketing expense and general and administrative expenses. We plan to continue to grow and innovate our business and service offerings and expand our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. Highlights from the Fiscal Year 2023 Revenue: For fiscal 2023, revenue was $31.4 billion , an increase of 18 percent year-over-year. Earnings per Share: For fiscal 2023 , diluted earnings per share was $0.21 as compared to diluted earnings per share of $1.48 from a year ago. Cash: Cash provided by operations for fiscal 2023 was $7.1 billion, an increase of 19 percent y ear-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of January 31, 2023 was $12.5 billion. Remaining Performance Obligation: Total remaining performance obligation as of January 31, 2023 was approximately $48.6 billion, an increase of 11 percent year-over-year . Current remaining performance obligation as of January 31, 2023 was approximately $24.6 billion , an increase of 12 percent year-over-year. Share Repurchase Program: In August 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $10.0 billion of our common stock. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, we repurchased approximately 28 million shares of our common stock for approximately $4.0 billion. As of January 31, 2023, we were authorized to purchase a remaining $6.0 billion of our common stock under the Share Repurchase Program. In February 2023, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $10.0 billion in repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program, for an aggregate total authorized of $20.0 billion. Restructuring: In January 2023, we announced a restructuring plan (the Plan) intended to reduce operating costs, improve operating margins, and continue advancing our ongoing commitment to profitable growth. The Plan includes a reduction of our workforce and select real estate exits and office space reductions within certain markets. For fiscal 2023 , we incurred approximately $828 million related to the Plan. While we continue to see growth in our total revenues, macroeconomic factors have impacted our business and our customers businesses in ways that are difficult to isolate and quantify. Beginning in July 2022, we saw more measured buying behavior from our customers resulting in stretched sales cycles, additional approval layers required from our customers and deal compression. These trends continued in the second half of fiscal 2023. Slower growth in new and renewal business, particularly if sustained, impacts our remaining performance obligation, revenues and our ability to meet financial guidance and long-term targets. In addition, the expanding global scope of our business and the heightened volatility of global markets, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency markets. Foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted revenues by approximately four percent in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 and negatively impacted our current remaining performance obligation by approximately one percent as of January 31, 2023 compared to what we would have reported as of January 31, 2022 using constant currency rates. During fiscal 2023, the United States Dollar has strengthened significantly against certain foreign currencies in the markets in which we operate, particularly against the Euro, British Pound Sterling and Japanese Yen. Based on the continued volatility in foreign currency markets, we expect lower revenue growth in the near-term compared to past results. If these conditions continue throughout fiscal 2024, they could have a material adverse impact on our near-term results and our ability to accurately predict our future results and earnings. The impact of these fluctuations could also be compounded by the 39 Table of Contents seasonality of our business in which our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2023, for example, refer to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023. Operating Segments We operate as one segment. See Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion about our segments. Sources of Revenues We derive our revenues from two sources: subscription and support revenues and professional services and other revenues. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 93 percent of our total revenues for fiscal 2023. Subscription and support revenues include subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services (collectively, "Cloud Services"), software license revenues from the sales of term and perpetual licenses, and support revenues from the sale of support and updates beyond the basic subscription fees or related to the sales of software licenses. Our Cloud Services allow customers to use our multi-tenant software without taking possession of the software. Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term. Subscription and support revenues also include revenues associated with term and perpetual software licenses that provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available. Revenues from software licenses are generally recognized at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer. Revenue from support and updates is recognized as such support and updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the contract term. Changes in contract duration for multi-year licenses can impact the amount of revenues recognized upfront. Revenues from software licenses represent less than ten percent of total subscription and support revenue for fiscal 2023. The revenue growth rates of each of our service offerings, as described below in Results of Operations, fluctuate from quarter to quarter and over time. Additionally, we manage the total balanced product portfolio to deliver solutions to our customers and, as a result, the revenue result for each offering is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any subsequent quarter. In addition, some of our Cloud Service offerings have similar features and functions. For example, customers may use our Sales, Service or Platform service offerings to record account and contact information, which are similar features across these service offerings. Depending on a customers actual and projected business requirements, more than one service offering may satisfy the customers current and future needs. We record revenue based on the individual products ordered by a customer, not according to the customers business requirements and usage. Our growth in revenues is also impacted by attrition. Attrition represents the reduction or loss of the annualized value of our contracts with customers. We calculate our attrition rate at a point in time on a trailing twelve-month basis as of the end of each month. As of January 31, 2023, our attrition rate, excluding MuleSoft, Tableau and Slack, was below 7.5 percent. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2024, Mulesoft and Tableau will be included in our attrition rate calculation, which we expect to slightly increase our attrition rate going forward. We continue to maintain a variety of customer programs and initiatives, which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped keep our attrition rate consistent as compared to the prior year. Consistent attrition rates play a role in our ability to maintain growth in our subscription and support revenues. Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow Unearned revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in unearned revenue or in revenue depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. There is a disproportionate weighting toward annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year-on-year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, because of this billing activity, our first quarter is typically our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. Generally, our third quarter has historically been our smallest operating cash flow quarter . Unearned revenues, accounts receivable and operating 40 Table of Contents cash flow may also be impacted by acquisitions. For example, operating cash flows may be adversely impacted by acquisitions due to transaction costs, financing costs such as interest expense and lower operating cash flows from the acquired entity. Remaining Performance Obligation Our remaining performance obligation represents all future revenue under contract that has not yet been recognized as revenue and includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts. Our current remaining performance obligation represents future revenue under contract that is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months. Remaining performance obligation is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth and is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the timing of renewals, average contract terms, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in new business growth. Remaining performance obligation is also impacted by acquisitions. Unbilled portions of the remaining performance obligation denominated in foreign currencies are revalued each period based on the period end exchange rates. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled balance and corresponding remaining performance obligation are typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increase if the agreement is renewed. Low remaining performance obligation attributable to a particular subscription agreement is often associated with an impending renewal but may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. Changes in contract duration or the timing of delivery of professional services can impact remaining performance obligation as well as the allocation between current and non-current remaining performance obligation. Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenues Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our service and providing support, including the costs of data center capacity, certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology, services and data, employee-related costs such as salaries and benefits, and allocated overhead. Our cost of subscription and support revenues also includes amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts. Also included in the cost of subscription and support revenues are expenses incurred supporting the free user base of Slack, including third-party hosting costs and employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, specific to customer experience and technical operations. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based compensation expense, the cost of subcontractors, certain third-party fees and allocated overhead. We believe that our professional services organization facilitates the adoption of our service offerings, helps us to secure larger subscription revenue contracts and supports our customers success. The cost of professional services may exceed revenues from professional services in future fiscal periods. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense and allocated overhead. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses make up the majority of our operating expenses and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense and commissions, for our sales and marketing staff, as well as payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. We capitalize certain costs to obtain customer contracts, such as commissions, and amortize these costs on a straight-line basis. As such, the timing of expense recognition for these commissions is not consistent with the timing of the associated cash payment. Our marketing and sales expenses include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys trade names, customer lists and customer relationships. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel, professional services fees and allocated overhead. We allocate overhead such as information technology infrastructure, rent and occupancy charges based on headcount. Employee benefit costs and taxes are allocated based upon a percentage of total compensation expense. As such, these types of expenses are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. 41 Table of Contents Restructuring Restructuring, related to the January 2023 Plan, consist primarily of charges related to employee transition, severance payments, employee benefits and share-based compensation as well as exit charges associated with office space reductions. The actions associated with the employee restructuring under the Plan are expected to be substantially complete by the end of our fiscal 2024, subject to local law and consultation requirements. The actions associated with the real estate restructuring under the Plan are expected to be fully complete in fiscal 2026. Restructuring excludes allocated overhead. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies and specific estimates involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations. We enter into contracts with our customers that may include promises to transfer multiple Cloud Services, software licenses, premium support and professional services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer products or services that are distinct. Determining whether products and services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately or combined as one unit of accounting may require significant judgment. Cloud Services and software licenses are distinct as such offerings are often sold separately. In determining whether professional services are distinct, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription start date and the contractual dependence of the service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. To date, we have generally concluded that professional services included in contracts with multiple performance obligations are distinct. We allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price ("SSP") basis. The SSP is the price at which we would sell a promised product or service separately to a customer. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. We determine SSP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where services are sold, price lists, our go-to-market strategy, historical sales and contract prices. In instances where we do not sell or price a product or service separately, we determine the estimated standalone selling price using information that may include market conditions or other observable inputs. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to SSP. In certain cases, we are able to establish SSP based on observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We use a single amount to estimate SSP when it has observable prices. If SSP is not directly observable, for example when pricing is highly variable, we use a range of SSP. We determine the SSP range using information that may include pricing practices or other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customer size and geography. Business Combinations. Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed and pre-acquisition contingencies. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as the useful lives of those acquired intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets and goodwill we have acquired are: future expected cash flows from subscription and support contracts, professional services contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name will continue to be used in our offerings; discount rates; uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances assumed; fair value of assumed equity awards; and 42 Table of Contents fair value of pre-existing relationships. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Income Taxes. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not expected to be realized based on the weighting of positive and negative evidence. Future realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character, for example, ordinary income or capital gains, within the carryback or carryforward periods available under the applicable tax law. We regularly review the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Our judgment regarding future profitability may change due to many factors, including future market conditions and the ability to successfully execute our business plans and tax planning strategies. Should there be a change in the ability to recover deferred tax assets, our income tax provision would increase or decrease in the period in which the assessment is changed. Our tax positions are subject to income tax audits by multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the world. We recognize the tax benefit of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination by the taxing authority, based on the technical merits. The tax benefit recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit which is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement with the taxing authority. We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our income tax provision. Strategic Investments. Accounting for strategic investments in privately held debt and equity securities in which we do not have a controlling interest or significant influence requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. Valuations of privately held securities are inherently complex and require judgment due to the lack of readily available market data. Privately held debt and equity securities are valued using significant unobservable inputs or data in an inactive market and the valuation requires our judgment due to the absence of market prices and inherent lack of liquidity. The carrying values of our privately held equity securities are adjusted if there are observable price changes in a same or similar security from the same issuer or if there are identified events or changes in circumstances that may indicate impairment, as discussed below. In determining the estimated fair value for these investments, we utilize the most recent data available and apply valuation methods, including the market approach and option pricing models (OPM), adjusted to reflect the specific rights and preferences of the classes of securities we hold. Such information available to us from investee companies is supplemented with estimates such as volatility and expected time to liquidity. We assess our privately held debt and equity securities strategic investment portfolio quarterly for impairment. Our impairment analysis encompasses an assessment of both qualitative and quantitative analyses of key factors including the investees financial metrics, market acceptance of the product or technology, and the rate at which the investee is using its cash. Depending on our contractual rights as an investor, investee specific information available to us to make this assessment may be limited or may be available on a delayed basis. If the investment is considered to be impaired, we record the investment at fair value by recognizing an impairment through the consolidated statement of operations and establishing a new carrying value for the investment. The particular privately held debt and equity securities we hold, and their rights and preferences relative to those of other securities within the capital structure, may impact the magnitude by which our investment value moves in relation to movement of the total enterprise value of the company. As a result, our investment value in a specific company may move by more or less than any change in the value of that overall company. An immediate decrease of ten percent in the enterprise values of our largest privately held equity securities, representing 37 percent of our total strategic investments as of January 31, 2023, could result in a $115 million reduction in the value of our investment portfolio. Results of Operations 43 Table of Contents The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in millions): 4 Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023 % of Total Revenues 2022 % of Total Revenues 2021 % of Total Revenues Revenues: Subscription and support $ 29,021 93 % $ 24,657 93 % $ 19,976 94 % Professional services and other 2,331 7 1,835 7 1,276 6 Total revenues 31,352 100 26,492 100 21,252 100 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 5,821 19 5,059 19 4,154 20 Professional services and other 2,539 8 1,967 8 1,284 6 Total cost of revenues 8,360 27 7,026 27 5,438 26 Gross profit 22,992 73 19,466 73 15,814 74 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 5,055 16 4,465 17 3,598 17 Marketing and sales 13,526 43 11,855 44 9,674 45 General and administrative 2,553 8 2,598 10 2,087 10 Restructuring 828 3 0 0 0 0 Total operating expenses 21,962 70 18,918 71 15,359 72 Income from operations 1,030 3 548 2 455 2 Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net (239) (1) 1,211 5 2,170 10 Other expense (131) 0 (227) (1) (64) 0 Income before benefit from (provision for) income taxes 660 2 1,532 6 2,561 12 Benefit from (provision for) income taxes (452) (1) (88) (1) 1,511 7 Net income $ 208 1 % $ 1,444 5 % $ 4,072 19 % (1) Amounts related to amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, as follows (in millions): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023 % of Total Revenues 2022 % of Total Revenues 2021 % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 1,035 3 % $ 897 3 % $ 662 3 % Marketing and sales 916 3 727 3 459 2 (2) Amounts related to stock-based compensation expense, as follows (in millions): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023 % of Total Revenues 2022 % of Total Revenues 2021 % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 499 2 % $ 386 1 % $ 241 1 % Research and development 1,136 3 918 4 703 4 Marketing and sales 1,256 4 1,104 4 941 4 General and administrative 368 1 371 1 305 1 Restructuring 20 0 0 0 0 0 44 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected balance sheet data and other metrics for each of the periods indicated (in millions, except remaining performance obligation, which is presented in billions): As of January 31, 2023 January 31, 2022 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 12,508 $ 10,537 Unearned revenue 17,376 15,628 Remaining performance obligation 48.6 43.7 Principal due on our outstanding debt obligations (1) 10,682 10,686 (1) Amounts do not include operating or financing lease obligations. Remaining performance obligation represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 compared to the same period in fiscal 2022 was impacted by our recent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Slack Technologies, Inc. (Slack) in July 2021, our largest acquisition to date, such that approximately six months of Slack revenues and expenses are included in fiscal 2022 whereas 12 months of Slack operations are included in fiscal 2023. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 compared to the same period in fiscal 2022, we may quantitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date for the growth in certain of our revenues where such discussions would be meaningful. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons generally were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses into our existing operations or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenues Fiscal Year Ended January 31, Variance (in millions) 2023 2022 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 29,021 $ 24,657 $ 4,364 18 % Professional services and other 2,331 1,835 496 27 Total revenues $ 31,352 $ 26,492 $ 4,860 18 % The increase in subscription and support revenues for fiscal 2023 was primarily caused by volume-driven increases from new business, which includes new customers, upgrades, additional subscriptions from existing customers and acquisition activity. Pricing was not a significant driver of the increase in revenues for either period. Revenues from term and perpetual software licenses, which are recognized at a point in time, represent approximately six percent and seven percent of total subscription and support revenues for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 93 percent of our total revenues for fiscal 2023 and 2022. For business combinations prior to fiscal 2023, we recorded unearned revenue related to acquired contracts from acquired entities at fair value on the date of acquisition. As a result, we did not recognize certain revenues related to these acquired contracts that the acquired entities would have otherwise recorded as an independent entity. In fiscal 2023, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2021-08, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2021-08) which requires contract liabilities (i.e., unearned revenue) acquired in a business combination to be recognized and measured in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , thereby eliminating the previously unrecognized would-be revenue. The adoption of ASU 2021-08 did not materially impact our results of operations in fiscal 2023. The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. 45 Table of Contents Subscription and Support Revenues by Service Offering Subscription and support revenues consisted of the following (in millions): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023 As a % of Total Subscription and Support Revenues 2022 As a % of Total Subscription and Support Revenues Growth Rate Sales $ 6,831 24 % $ 5,989 24 % 14 % Service 7,369 25 6,474 26 14 Platform and Other 5,967 20 4,509 19 32 Marketing and Commerce 4,516 16 3,902 16 16 Data 4,338 15 3,783 15 15 Total $ 29,021 100 % $ 24,657 100 % 18 % Our Industry Offerings revenue is included in one of the above service offerings depending on the primary service purchased. Slack revenues are included in Platform and Other. Data is comprised of revenue from Analytics and Integration service offerings. Data subscription and support revenues include revenues from term and perpetual software licenses, which are recognized at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer. Therefore, we expect Data to experience greater volatility in revenues period to period compared to our other service offerings. Additionally, as we transition customers within the Data offering from perpetual and term software licenses to subscription based services, revenue associated with such customers will generally be recognized ratably over the contract term, resulting in potentially less revenue in the period the customer transitions but potentially increasing revenues over the remaining term. Revenues by Geography Fiscal Year Ended January 31, (in millions) 2023 As a % of Total Revenues 2022 As a % of Total Revenues Growth Rate Americas $ 21,250 68 % $ 17,983 68 % 18 % Europe 7,163 23 6,016 23 19 Asia Pacific 2,939 9 2,493 9 18 Total $ 31,352 100 % $ 26,492 100 % 18 % Revenues by geography are determined based on the region of the Salesforce contracting entity, which may be different than the region of the customer. The increase in revenues across all regions was due primarily to the continued execution of our business and growth strategy, including increasing our geographic reach primarily through extending our go-to-market capabilities globally. During fiscal 2023, revenues outside of the Americas were negatively impacted by foreign currency fluctuations by approximately ten percent compared to fiscal 2022. Cost of Revenues Fiscal Year Ended January 31, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2023 As a % of Total Revenues 2022 As a % of Total Revenues Subscription and support $ 5,821 19 % $ 5,059 19 % $ 762 Professional services and other 2,539 8 % 1,967 8 % 572 Total cost of revenues $ 8,360 27 % $ 7,026 27 % $ 1,334 For fiscal 2023, the increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to an increase of $638 million in employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense. We have increased our headcount associated with our data centers, customer support and professional services by 27 percent since fiscal 2022 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers as well as from our fiscal 2023 acquisition of Traction on Demand. Fiscal 2023 cost of revenues, as a percentage of revenues, were consistent to that of fiscal 2022. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity to allow us to scale with our customers and continuously evolve our security measures. We also plan to add employees in our 46 Table of Contents professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses is expected to affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in the near term. Operating Expenses Fiscal Year Ended January 31, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2023 As a % of Total Revenues 2022 As a % of Total Revenues Research and development $ 5,055 16 % $ 4,465 17 % $ 590 Marketing and sales 13,526 43 11,855 44 1,671 General and administrative 2,553 8 2,598 10 (45) Restructuring 828 3 0 0 828 Total operating expenses $ 21,962 70 % $ 18,918 71 % $ 3,044 For fiscal 2023, the increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an increase of approximately $547 million in employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense. Our research and development headcount increased by three percent since fiscal 2022 in order to improve and extend our service offerings, develop new technologies and integrate acquired companies. Fiscal 2023 research and development expenses, as a percentage of revenues, decreased compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to our hiring pause that began in the second half of fiscal 2023 as well as our January 2023 restructuring plan. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in the near term as we continue to invest in technology to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired technologies. For fiscal 2023, the increase in marketing and sales expenses was primarily due to an increase of $1.3 billion in employee-related costs, including the amortization of deferred commissions and stock-based compensation expense. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by three percent since fiscal 2022 primarily due to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. Fiscal 2023 marketing and sales expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to our hiring pause that began in the second half of fiscal 2023, our January 2023 restructuring plan and decreased marketing expenses. We expect that marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may decrease as a percentage of revenues in the near term as we focus on leveraging our self-serve and partner-led channels and increasing our sales productivity. For fiscal 2023, the decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreased third-party and miscellaneous expenses. Our general and administrative headcount increased by five percent since fiscal 2022 as we added personnel to support our growth. General and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenue, decreased primarily due to our hiring pause in the second half of fiscal 2023, our January 2023 restructuring plan and real estate exits that occurred in fiscal 2023. We expect that general and administrative expenses may increase in absolute dollars and may decrease as a percentage of revenues in the near term as we continue to invest in process efficiency initiatives. In fiscal 2023, approximately $828 million of costs were incurred related to the January 2023 restructuring plan, of which approximately $683 million relates to employee transition, severance payments, employee benefits and stock-based compensation expense and $145 million relates to exit charges associated with office space reductions. We expect to incur approximately $600 million to $1.1 billion in charges in connection with the Plan in the near term. 47 Table of Contents Other Income and Expenses Fiscal Year Ended January 31, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2023 2022 Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net $ (239) $ 1,211 $ (1,450) Other expense (131) (227) 96 Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net consists primarily of mark-to-market adjustments related to our publicly held equity securities, observable price adjustments related to our privately held equity securities and other adjustments including impairments. Our strategic investment portfolio continues to be affected by high public equity market volatility as well as challenging market conditions for companies in which we hold private equity or debt investments. In fiscal 2023 these factors resulted in impairments on privately held equity and debt securities of $491 million, partially offset by $180 million in unrealized gains on privately held equity securities. Other expense primarily consists of interest expense on our debt as well as our finance leases, offset by interest income on our marketable securities portfolio. Other expense decreased primarily due to an increase in investment income from rising interest rates offset by an increase in interest expense primarily driven by our issuance of $8.0 billion Senior Notes in July 2021. Benefit From (Provision For) Income Taxes Fiscal Year Ended January 31, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2023 2022 Provision for income taxes $ (452) $ (88) $ (364) Effective tax rate 68 % 6 % In fiscal 2023, we recognized a tax provision of $452 million on a pretax income of $660 million. The majority of the tax provision was related to taxes from profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States which includes withholding taxes. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate due to changes in our domestic and foreign earnings, or material discrete tax items, or a combination of these factors resulting from transactions or events, for example, acquisitions, changes to our operating structure and other macroeconomic factors. In fiscal 2022, we recognized a tax provision of $88 million on a pretax income of $1.5 billion. Our tax provision was primarily due to taxes from profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States, which was offset by a net US tax benefit primarily due to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. The Inflation Reduction Act was signed into law in August 2022. The Inflation Reduction Act introduced new provisions, including a 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax for certain large corporations that have at least an average of $1 billion adjusted financial statement income over a consecutive three-tax-year period. The corporate minimum tax will be effective for fiscal 2024. While we do not anticipate this change to be significant, it could impact our consolidated financial position. We continue to monitor and analyze new information, interpretations and guidance. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 For a discussion of the year ended January 31, 2022 compared to the year ended January 31, 2021, refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources At January 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $12.5 billion and accounts receivable of $10.8 billion. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and obligations, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency obligations, asset-backed securities, foreign government obligations, mortgage-backed obligations, covered bonds, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. Our credit agreement (the Revolving Loan Credit Agreement), which as of January 31, 2023 provides the ability to borrow up to $3.0 billion in unsecured financing (the Credit Facility), also serves as a source of liquidity. Cash from operations could continue to be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided by operating activities, unbilled amounts related to contracted non-cancelable subscription agreements, which is not reflected on the balance sheet, and, if necessary, our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt maintenance needs over the next 12 months. 48 Table of Contents In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies and intellectual property rights. To facilitate these acquisitions or investments, we may seek additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all, impacting our ability to complete subsequent acquisitions or investments. Cash Flows For fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 our cash flows were as follows (in millions): 4 Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 7,111 $ 6,000 $ 4,801 Net cash used in investing activities (1,989) (14,536) (3,971) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (3,562) 7,838 1,194 Operating Activities The net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2023 was related to net income of $208 million, adjusted for non-cash items including $3.8 billion of depreciation and amortization and $3.3 billion related to stock-based compensation expense. Cash provided by operating activities can be significantly impacted by factors such as growth in new business, timing of cash receipts from customers, vendor payment terms and timing of payments to vendors. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2023 was further benefited by the change in unearned revenue of $1.7 billion, partially offset by the change in co sts capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, net of $2.3 billion and accounts receivable, net of $1.0 billion due to cash collections. Cash provided by operating activities was impacted by the provision from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 which became effective in fiscal 2023 and requires the capitalization and amortization of research and development costs. The change increased our cash taxes paid in fiscal 2023. As our business continues to grow and our expenses remain in line with or less than our revenue growth, we expect to continue to see growth in net cash provided by operating activities. The net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2022 was primarily related to net income of $1.4 billion, adjusted for non-cash items including $3.3 billion of depreciation and amortization and $2.8 billion related to stock-based expense offset by $1.2 billion related to gains on strategic investments. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2022 was further benefited by the change in unearned revenue of $2.6 billion, partially offset by accounts receivable, net of $1.8 billion. Investing Activities The net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2023 was primarily related to capital expenditures of $798 million, net outflows of $557 million from marketable securities activity, cash consideration for acquisitions of approximately $439 million and net outflows of $195 million from strategic investment activity. The net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2022 was primarily related to cash consideration for the acquisitions of Slack and Acumen, as well as other acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of approximately $14.9 billion. Net cash used in investing activities was impacted by net inflows of $574 million from marketable securities activity and $483 million from strategic investment activity. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2023 consisted primarily of $4.0 billion from repurchases of common stock partially offset by $861 million from proceeds from equity plans. Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2022 consisted primarily of $7.9 billion of net proceeds from our July 2021 issuance of Senior Notes and $1.3 billion from proceeds from equity plans, partially offset by payments related to the Slack Convertible Notes, net of associated capped call proceeds of $1.2 billion. Debt As of January 31, 2023, we had senior unsecured debt outstanding, with maturities starting in April 2023 through July 2061. The total carrying value of this debt was $10.6 billion, of which $1.0 billion is related to the 2023 Senior Notes due in the next 12 months. In addition, we had senior secured notes outstanding related to our loan on our purchase of an office building located at 50 Fremont Street in San Francisco (50 Fremont), due in June 2023, with a total carrying value of $182 million. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of January 31, 2023. In December 2020, we entered into the Revolving Loan Credit Agreement, which provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving Credit Facility that matures in December 2025. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility as of January 31, 2023. We may use the proceeds of future borrowings under the Credit Facility for general corporate purposes, 49 Table of Contents which may include, without limitation, financing the consideration for, fees, costs and expenses related to any acquisition. In April 2022, we amended the Revolving Loan Credit Agreement to reflect certain immaterial administrative changes. We do not have any special purpose entities and we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Share Repurchase Program In August 2022, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $10.0 billion of our common stock (the Share Repurchase Program). The Share Repurchase Program does not have a fixed expiration date and does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, we repurchased approximately 28 million shares of our common stock for approximately $4.0 billion at an average cost of $144.94. All repurchases were made in open market transactions. As of January 31, 2023, we were authorized to purchase a remaining $6.0 billion of the Companys common stock under the Share Repurchase Program. In February 2023, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $10.0 billion in repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program, for an aggregate total authorized of $20.0 billion. Subsequent to January 31, 2023, we have paid approximately $0.3 billion through March 6, 2023 for additional shares under the Share Repurchase Program. The Inflation Reduction Act was signed into law in August 2022. It introduced a new 1 percent excise tax imposed on certain stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. It did not impact our financing cash flows in fiscal 2023. The excise tax may apply to future repurchases and could impact our financing cash flows. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space, co-location data center facilities and our development and test data center, as well as leases for computer equipment, software, furniture and fixtures. As of January 31, 2023, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were approximately $4.7 billion, with payments of $933 million due in the next 12 months and $3.8 billion due thereafter. As of January 31, 2023, we have additional operating leases that have not yet commenced totaling $0.4 billion. We generally expect to satisfy these commitments with cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities. In addition to our leasing arrangements, we have other contractual commitments associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding, including those with infrastructure service providers. Our total commitments under these agreements are $6.5 billion, of which payments of $1.1 billion are due in the next 12 months and $5.4 billion are due thereafter. We generally expect to satisfy these commitments with cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities. During fiscal 2023 and in future fiscal years, we have made, and expect to continue to make, additional investments in our infrastructure to scale our operations to increase productivity and enhance our security measures. We plan to upgrade or replace various internal systems to scale with our overall growth. While we continue to make investments in our infrastructure including offices, information technology and data centers, as well as investments with infrastructure service providers, to provide capacity for the growth of our business, our strategy may continue to change related to these investments and we may slow the pace of our investments. Other Future Obligations Our overall acquisition strategy may evolve to require integration and business operation changes that may result in incremental income tax costs. The timing and amount of a tax cash payment, if any, is uncertain and would be based upon a number of factors, including our integration plans, valuations related to intercompany transactions, the tax rate in effect at the time, potential negotiations with the taxing authorities and potential litigation. Additionally, as we utilize our remaining tax credits and net operating loss carryforwards, we expect an increase in future cash taxes. The Inflation Reduction Act was signed into law in August 2022. The Inflation Reduction Act introduced new provisions, including a 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax for certain large corporations that have at least an average of $1 billion adjusted financial statement income over a consecutive three-tax-year period. The corporate minimum tax will be effective in fiscal 2024. While we do not anticipate this change to be significant, it could impact our consolidated financial position. We continue to monitor and analyze new information, interpretation and guidance. Additionally, related to the restructuring plan announced in January 2023, we expect approximately $1.2 billion to $1.7 billion in future cash expenditures, primarily related to workforce costs such as severance payments. 50 Table of Contents Environmental, Social, Governance We believe the business of business is to make the world a better place for all of our stakeholders, including our stockholders, customers, employees, partners, the planet and the communities in which we work and live. We believe that values drive value, and that effectively managing our priority Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) topics will help create long-term value for our investors. We also believe that transparently disclosing the goals and relevant metrics related to our ESG programs will allow our stakeholders to be informed about our progress. Our ESG disclosures include our annual stakeholder impact report, our Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report, Sustainability Bond report and others as required by location regulations. The disclosures are informed by an internal ESG prioritization assessment refreshed in fiscal 2022, which assessed topics based on their potential impact to both our own enterprise value creation and the environment and society more broadly. The assessment gathered input from a number of our key internal and external stakeholders, such as investors, customers, suppliers, our employees and executives, non-governmental organizations and sector organizations. Our ESG disclosures are also informed by relevant topics identified through third-party ESG reporting organizations, frameworks and standards, such as the TCFD. More information on our key ESG programs, goals and commitments, and key metrics can be found in our annual Stakeholder Impact Report, https://salesforce.com/stakeholder-impact-report. Website references throughout this document are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced websites is not incorporated by reference into this report. While we believe that our ESG goals align with our long-term growth strategy and financial and operational priorities, they are aspirational and may change, and there is no guarantee or promise that they will be met. 51 Table of Contents