ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, assumes, may, should, could, would, foresees, forecasts, predicts, targets, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which may consist of, among other things, trend analyses and statements regarding future events, future financial performance, anticipated growth and industry prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and forecasts, as well as the beliefs and assumptions of our management, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including: the effect of general economic and market conditions; the impact of geopolitical events; the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results; our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be the leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms; the pace of change and innovation in enterprise cloud computing services; the seasonal nature of our sales cycles; the competitive nature of the market in which we participate; our international expansion strategy; our service performance and security, including the resources and costs required to avoid unanticipated downtime and prevent, detect and remediate potential security breaches; the expenses associated with new data centers and third-party infrastructure providers; additional data center capacity; real estate and office facilities space; our operating results and cash flows; new services and product features; our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services, technologies and intellectual property rights; the performance and fair value of our investments in complementary businesses through our strategic investment portfolio; our ability to realize the benefits from strategic partnerships, joint ventures and investments; the impact of future gains or losses from our strategic investment portfolio including gains or losses from overall market conditions that may affect the publicly traded companies within our strategic investment portfolio; our ability to execute our business plans; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; our ability to continue to grow unearned revenue and remaining performance obligation; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to develop our brands; our reliance on third-party hardware, software and platform providers; our dependency on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet; the effect of evolving domestic and foreign government regulations, including those related to the provision of services on the Internet, those related to accessing the Internet, and those addressing data privacy, cross-border data transfers and import and export controls; the valuation of our deferred tax assets and the release of related valuation allowances; the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and tax laws; uncertainties affecting our ability to estimate our tax rate; the impact of expensing stock options and other equity awards; the sufficiency of our capital resources; factors related to our 2023 and 2028 senior notes, revolving credit facility, 2021 term loan and loan associated with 50 Fremont; compliance with our debt covenants and lease obligations; current and potential litigation involving us; and the impact of climate change. These and other risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report for additional detail regarding factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview We are a global leader in customer relationship management ("CRM") technology that enables companies to improve their relationships and interactions with customers. We introduced our first CRM solution in 2000, and we have since expanded our service offerings with new editions, features and platform capabilities. Our core mission is to empower our customers of every size and industry to connect with their customers in new ways through existing and emerging technologies, including cloud, mobile, social, Internet of Things ("IoT") and artificial intelligence ("AI"). Our Customer Success Platform - including sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, digital commerce, community management, industry-specific solutions, analytics, integration solutions, application development, IoT integration, collaborative productivity tools, our AppExchange, which is our enterprise cloud marketplace, and our professional cloud services - provides the tools customers need to succeed in a digital world. Key elements of our strategy include: cross sell and upsell; extend existing service offerings; reduce customer attrition; expand and strengthen the partner ecosystem; expand internationally; 31 Table of Contents target vertical industries; expand into new horizontal markets; extend go-to-market capabilities; ensure strong customer adoption; and encourage the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platform. We are also committed to a sustainable, low-carbon future, advancing equality and diversity, and fostering employee success. We try to integrate social good into everything we do. All of these goals align with our long-term growth strategy and financial and operational priorities. We believe the factors that will influence our ability to achieve our objectives include: our prospective customers willingness to migrate to enterprise cloud computing services; our ability to maintain a balanced portfolio of products and customers; the availability, performance and security of our service offerings; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved features; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; successful customer adoption and utilization of our service; our ability to continue to meet new and evolving privacy laws and regulations; acceptance of our service offerings in markets where we have few customers; the emergence of additional competitors in our market and improved product offerings by existing and new competitors; the location of new data centers that we operate as well as the new locations of services provided by third-party cloud computing platform providers; third-party developers willingness to develop applications on our platforms; our ability to attract new personnel and retain and motivate current personnel; and general economic conditions, which could affect our customers ability and willingness to purchase our services, delay our customers purchasing decision or affect attrition rates. To address these factors, we will need to, among other things, continue to add substantial numbers of paying subscriptions, upgrade our customers to fully featured versions or arrangements, provide high quality technical support to our customers, encourage the development of third-party applications on our platforms, realize the benefits from our strategic partnerships and continue to focus on retaining customers at the time of renewal. Our plans to invest for future growth include the continued expansion of our data center capacity, whether internally or through the use of third parties, the hiring of additional personnel, particularly in direct sales, other customer-related areas and research and development, the expansion of domestic and international selling and marketing activities, specifically in our top markets, the continued development of our brands, the addition of distribution channels, the upgrade of our service offerings, the continued development of services including Community Cloud and Industry Clouds, the integration of new and acquired technologies such as Commerce Cloud, AI and Salesforce Quip, the expansion of our Marketing Cloud, Salesforce Platform core service offerings and Integration Cloud, and additions to our global infrastructure. We also regularly evaluate acquisitions or investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our service offerings through a disciplined and thoughtful acquisition process. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future and we plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in future periods to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, e-commerce, AI, IoT and collaborative productivity tools. We drive innovation organically and to a lesser extent through acquisitions, such as our acquisitions of MuleSoft, Inc. ("Mulesoft") and Datorama, Inc. ("Datorama"). As a result of our aggressive growth plans and integration of our previously acquired businesses, we have incurred significant expenses from equity awards and amortization of purchased intangibles, which have reduced our operating income. We remain focused on improving operating margins. Our typical subscription contract term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months, so during any fiscal reporting period only a subset of active subscription contracts is eligible for renewal. We calculate our attrition rate as of the end of each month. Our attrition rate, including the Marketing Cloud service offering but excluding our Commerce Cloud and Integration Cloud service offerings, was less than ten percent as of April 30, 2019 . While it is difficult to predict, we expect our attrition rate to remain consistent as we continue to expand our enterprise business and invest in customer success and related programs. We periodically make changes to our sales organization to position us for long-term growth and, in the first quarter fiscal 2020, these were slightly more pronounced than usual. We believe that the effect of these changes contributed to slower recent growth in new business than anticipated. However, there was no material impact to our remaining performance obligation or revenues for the three-month period ended April 30, 2019 . We could experience some effects from these organizational changes in future periods, but we do not expect these changes to have a material adverse effect on our business or our ability to meet our near-term or long-term revenue targets. Slower growth in new business in any given period could negatively affect our revenues in future periods, as well as remaining performance obligation, particularly if experienced on a sustained basis. 32 Table of Contents We expect marketing and sales costs, which were 45 percent and 44 percent of total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, to continue to represent a substantial portion of total revenues in the future as we seek to grow our customer base, sell more products to existing customers, and continue to build greater brand awareness. The expanding global scope of our business exposes us to risk of fluctuations in foreign currency markets. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted our revenue results for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and negatively impacted our remaining performance obligation as of April 30, 2019. We expect these fluctuations to continue for the remainder of fiscal 2020. Effective on February 1, 2019, we prospectively adopted the provisions and expanded disclosure requirements described in Topic 842. Upon adoption, we recorded operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets of approximately $2.9 billion and corresponding operating lease liabilities of $3.1 billion on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2020 , for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2020 . Operating Segments We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by our chief operating decision makers, Marc Benioff, who is the co-chief executive officer and the chairman of the board, and Keith Block, who is the co-chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Over the past few years, we have completed a number of acquisitions, including the acquisitions of MuleSoft and Datorama in fiscal 2019. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the enterprise cloud computing market. While we have offerings in multiple enterprise cloud computing market segments, including as a result of our acquisitions, our business operates in one operating segment because most of our offerings operate on a single customer success platform and are deployed in a nearly identical way, and our chief operating decision makers evaluate our financial information and resources and assess the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. Sources of Revenues We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services (collectively, "Cloud Services"), software licenses, and from customers paying for additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fees; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 94 percent of our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . Subscription revenues are driven primarily by the number of paying subscribers, varying service types, and the price of our service and renewals. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity (e.g., a company, a distinct business unit of a large corporation, a partnership, etc.) that has entered into a contract to access our enterprise cloud computing services. These contracts include "new business" which are sales to new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers, and renewals. Subscription and support revenues for Cloud Services are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contract. Subscription revenues for software licenses are generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the customer. The typical subscription and support term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months. Our subscription and support contracts are non-cancelable, though customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we materially fail to perform. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in unearned revenue, or in revenue depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period. Professional services and other revenues consist of fees associated with consulting and implementation services and training. Our consulting and implementation engagements are billed on a time and materials, fixed fee or subscription basis. We also offer a number of training classes on implementing, using and administering our service that are billed on a per person, per class basis. Our typical professional services payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. In determining whether professional services can be accounted for separately from subscription and support revenues, we consider a number of factors, which are described in Note 1 "Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies." In situations where a customer purchases multiple cloud offerings, such as through an Enterprise License Agreement, we allocate the contract value to each core service offering based on the customers estimated product demand plan, the service that was provided at the inception of the contract, and standalone selling price ("SSP") of those products. We do not update these allocations based on actual product usage during the term of the contract. We have allocated approximately 18 percent and 17 percent of our total subscription and support revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, based on customers estimated product demand plans. 33 Table of Contents Additionally, some of our service offerings have similar features and functions. For example, customers may use the Sales Cloud, the Service Cloud or the Salesforce Platform to record account and contact information, which are similar features across these core service offerings. Depending on a customers actual and projected business requirements, more than one core service offering may satisfy the customers current and future needs. We record revenue based on the individual products ordered by a customer, not according to the customers business requirements and usage. In addition, as we introduce new features and functions within each offering and refine our allocation methodology for changes in our business, we do not expect it to be practical to adjust historical revenue results by service offering for comparability. Accordingly, comparisons of revenue performance by core service offering over time may not be meaningful. Our Sales Cloud service offering is our most widely distributed service offering and has historically been the largest contributor of subscription and support revenues. As a result, Sales Cloud has the most international exposure and foreign exchange rate exposure relative to the other cloud service offerings. Conversely, revenue for Marketing and Commerce Cloud is primarily derived from the Americas with little impact from foreign exchange rate movement. The revenue growth rates of each of our core service offerings fluctuate from quarter to quarter and over time. While we are a market leader in each core offering, we manage the total balanced product portfolio to deliver solutions to our customers. Accordingly, the revenue result for each cloud service offering is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any subsequent quarter. Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow Unearned revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in annual cycles. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. This may result in an increase in unearned revenue and accounts receivable. There is a disproportionate weighting toward annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, because of this billing activity, our first quarter is typically our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. The sequential quarterly changes in accounts receivable and the related unearned revenue and operating cash flow during the first quarter of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of the billing activity that occurs for the following quarters as displayed below (in millions ): April 30, 2019 Fiscal 2020 Accounts receivable, net $ 2,153 Unearned revenue 7,585 Operating cash flow 1,965 January 31, 2019 October 31, 2018 July 31, 2018 April 30, 2018 Fiscal 2019 Accounts receivable, net $ 4,924 $ 2,037 $ 1,980 $ 1,763 Unearned revenue 8,564 5,376 5,883 6,201 Operating cash flow 1,331 143 458 1,466 January 31, 2018 October 31, 2017 July 31, 2017 April 30, 2017 Fiscal 2018 Accounts receivable, net $ 3,921 $ 1,522 $ 1,572 $ 1,442 Unearned revenue 6,995 4,312 4,749 4,969 Operating cash flow 1,052 125 331 1,230 The unearned revenue balance on our condensed consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance 34 Table of Contents obligations ("Remaining Performance Obligation"), represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Remaining Performance Obligation is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth and is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the timing of renewals, average contract terms, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in new business growth. Unbilled portions of the remaining performance obligation denominated in foreign currencies are revalued each period based on the period end exchange rates. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled balance and corresponding Remaining Performance Obligation is typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increases if the agreement is renewed. Low Remaining Performance Obligation attributable to a particular subscription agreement is often associated with an impending renewal and may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. Remaining Performance Obligation consisted of the following (in billions): Current Noncurrent Total As of April 30, 2019 $ 11.8 $ 13.1 $ 24.9 (1) As of January 31, 2019 $ 11.9 $ 13.8 $ 25.7 (2) As of October 31, 2018 $ 10.0 $ 11.2 $ 21.2 (3) As of July 31, 2018 $ 9.8 $ 11.2 $ 21.0 (4) As of April 30, 2018 $ 9.6 $ 10.8 $ 20.4 As of January 31, 2018 $ 9.6 $ 11.0 $ 20.6 (1) Includes approximately $500 million of Remaining Performance Obligation related to the MuleSoft acquisition. (2) Includes approximately $450 million of Remaining Performance Obligation related to the MuleSoft acquisition. (3) Includes approximately $300 million of Remaining Performance Obligation related to the MuleSoft acquisition. (4) Includes approximately $200 million of Remaining Performance Obligation related to the MuleSoft acquisition. Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenues Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our service and providing support, the costs of data center capacity, depreciation or operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software, allocated overhead, amortization expense associated with capitalized software related to our services and acquired developed technologies and certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology, services and data. We 35 Table of Contents allocate overhead such as IT infrastructure, rent, and occupancy charges based on headcount. Employee benefit costs and taxes are allocated based upon a percentage of total compensation expense. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based expenses, the cost of subcontractors, certain third-party fees and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is higher as a percentage of the related revenue than for our enterprise cloud computing subscription service due to the direct labor costs and costs of subcontractors. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services. For example, we have invested in additional database software and hardware and we plan to increase the capacity that we are able to offer globally through data centers and third-party infrastructure providers. In addition, we intend to continue to invest additional resources in enhancing our trust and cyber security measures. As we acquire new businesses and technologies, the amortization expense associated with the purchase of acquired developed technology will be included in cost of revenues. Additionally, as we enter into new contracts with third parties for the use of their technology, services or data, or as our sales volume grows, the fees paid to use such technology or services may increase. Finally, we expect the cost of professional services to be approximately in line with revenues from professional services as we believe this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings. The timing of these additional expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in the affected periods. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, the costs of our development and test data center and allocated overhead. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and services, integrating acquired technologies, increasing the functionality and security and enhancing the ease of use of our enterprise cloud computing services. Our proprietary, scalable and secure multi-tenant architecture enables us to provide our customers with a service based on a single version of our application. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions, which enables us to have relatively lower research and development expenses as compared to traditional enterprise software companies. We expect that in the future, research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in adding employees and building the necessary system infrastructure required to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired businesses, technologies and all of our service offerings. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses are our largest cost and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for our sales and marketing staff, including commissions, as well as payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. We plan to continue to invest in marketing and sales by expanding our domestic and international selling and marketing activities, building brand awareness, attracting new customers, and sponsoring additional marketing events. The timing of these marketing events, such as our annual and largest event, Dreamforce, will affect our marketing costs in a particular quarter. In addition, as we acquire new businesses and technologies, a component of the amortization expense associated with this activity will be included in marketing and sales. We expect that in the future, marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest cost. We expect marketing and sales expenses, excluding sales personnel expenses, to grow in line with or at a slower rate than revenues and sales personnel expenses. These may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, security costs, professional fees, other corporate expenses such as transaction costs for acquisitions and allocated overhead. We expect that in the future, general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our infrastructure and we incur additional employee related costs, professional fees and insurance costs related to the growth of our business and international expansion. We expect general and administrative costs as a percentage of total revenues to either remain flat or decrease for the next several quarters. However, the timing of additional expenses in a particular quarter, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, will affect our general and administrative expenses. Stock-Based Expenses Our cost of revenues and operating expenses include stock-based expenses related to equity plans for employees and non-employee directors. We recognize our stock-based compensation as an expense in the statements of operations based on their 36 Table of Contents fair values and vesting periods. These charges have been significant in the past and we expect that they will increase as our stock price increases, as we acquire more companies, as we hire more employees and seek to retain existing employees. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Acquired Through Business Combinations Our cost of revenues, operating expenses and other expenses include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys developed technology, trade names and trademarks, and customer relationships. We expect this expense to fluctuate as we acquire more businesses and intangible assets become fully amortized. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies and specific estimates involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies and estimates we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations: the SSP of performance obligations for revenue contracts with multiple performance obligations; the average period of benefit associated with costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for business combinations; the recognition, measurement and valuation of current and deferred income taxes and uncertain tax positions; and the valuation of privately held strategic investments. 37 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in millions ): 1 Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 % of Total Revenues 2018 % of Total Revenues Revenues: Subscription and support $ 3,496 94 % $ 2,810 93 % Professional services and other 241 6 196 7 Total revenues 3,737 100 3,006 100 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 678 18 573 19 Professional services and other 236 6 194 7 Total cost of revenues 914 24 767 26 Gross profit 2,823 76 2,239 74 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 554 15 424 14 Marketing and sales 1,697 45 1,329 44 General and administrative 362 10 295 10 Total operating expenses 2,613 70 2,048 68 Income from operations 210 6 191 6 Gains on strategic investments, net 281 7 211 7 Other expense (9 ) 0 (17 ) 0 Income before provision for income taxes 482 13 385 13 Provision for income taxes (90 ) (3 ) (41 ) (2 ) Net income $ 392 10 % $ 344 11 % (1) Amounts related to amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, as follows (in millions ): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 % of Total Revenues 2018 % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 61 2 % $ 39 1 % Marketing and sales 68 2 30 1 (2) Amounts related to stock-based expenses, as follows (in millions ): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 % of Total Revenues 2018 % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 43 1 % $ 34 1 % Research and development 81 2 66 2 Marketing and sales 177 5 120 4 General and administrative 42 1 32 1 38 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (in millions) 2019 2018 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 3,496 $ 2,810 $ 686 24 % Professional services and other 241 196 45 23 Total revenues $ 3,737 $ 3,006 $ 731 24 The increase in subscription and support revenues was primarily caused by volume-driven increases from new business, which includes new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers. Approximately $77 million of revenue was recognized at a point in time, which includes the portion of software subscriptions allocated to the on-premise software element. Our acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018 contributed $170 million to total revenues in the three months ended April 30, 2019 . We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped keep our attrition rate consistent as compared to the prior year. Consistent attrition rates play a role in our ability to maintain growth in our subscription and support revenues. Changes in the net price per user per month have not been a significant driver of revenue growth for the periods presented. The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. Subscription and Support Revenue by Cloud Service Offering All of the cloud offerings that we offer to customers are grouped into four major cloud service offerings. Subscription and support revenues consisted of the following (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Variance Percent Sales Cloud $ 1,073 $ 965 11% Service Cloud 1,020 848 20% Salesforce Platform and Other 842 575 46% Marketing and Commerce Cloud 561 422 33% Total $ 3,496 $ 2,810 As required under U.S. GAAP, we recorded unearned revenue related to acquired contracts from MuleSoft at fair value on the date of acquisition. As a result, we did not recognize certain revenues related to these acquired contracts that MuleSoft would have otherwise recorded as an independent entity. Of the $842 million subscription and support revenue for Salesforce Platform and Other for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , approximately $140 million was attributed to MuleSoft. Subscription and support revenues from the Community Cloud, Quip and our Industry Offerings were not significant in the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018. Quip revenue is included with Salesforce Platform and Other in the table above. Our Industry Offerings and Community Cloud revenue are included in either Sales Cloud, Service Cloud or Salesforce Platform and Other depending on the primary service offering purchased. MuleSoft is included in Salesforce Platform and Other. Revenues by geography were as follows : Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2019 As a % of Total Revenues 2018 As a % of Total Revenues Variance Percent Americas $ 2,617 70 % $ 2,101 70 % 25 % Europe 755 20 606 20 25 Asia Pacific 365 10 299 10 22 $ 3,737 100 % $ 3,006 100 % 24 39 Table of Contents Revenues by geography are determined based on the region of the Salesforce contracting entity, which may be different than the region of the customer. Americas revenue attributed to the United States was approximately 96 percent during the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 . Revenues in Europe and Asia Pacific accounted for $1.1 billion , or 30 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , compared to $0.9 billion , or 30 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $0.2 billion , or 24 percent . The increase in revenues outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our services, our focus on marketing our services internationally and investment in additional international resources. Revenues outside of the Americas decreased by approximately $60 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018 due to foreign currency fluctuations primarily as a result of the weakening British Pound Sterling. We expect foreign currency fluctuations to continue to negatively affect our overall revenues outside of the Americas for the remaining nine months of fiscal 2020. Cost of Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2019 2018 Subscription and support $ 678 $ 573 $ 105 Professional services and other 236 194 42 Total cost of revenues $ 914 $ 767 $ 147 Percent of total revenues 24 % 26 % The increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to an increase of $32 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $9 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $51 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, an increase of amortization of purchased intangible assets of $22 million and an increase in allocated overhead. We have increased our headcount by 15 percent since April 30, 2018 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers, of which a component was also due to the acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity to allow us to scale with our customers and continuously evolve our security measures. We also plan to add employees in our professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in future periods. The cost of professional services and other revenues was $236 million during the three months ended April 30, 2019 resulting in positive gross margin of $5 million . The cost of professional services and other revenues was $194 million during the three months ended April 30, 2018 resulting in positive gross margin of $2 million . We expect the cost of professional services to be approximately in line with revenues from professional services in future fiscal quarters. We believe that this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings. Operating Expenses. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2019 2018 Research and development $ 554 $ 424 $ 130 Marketing and sales 1,697 1,329 368 General and administrative 362 295 67 Total operating expenses $ 2,613 $ 2,048 $ 565 Percent of total revenues 70 % 68 % The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an increase of approximately $92 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $15 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in our development and test data center costs and allocated overhead. We increased our research and development headcount by 30 percent since April 30, 2018 in order to improve and extend our service offerings, develop new technologies, and integrate acquired companies. Additionally, a component of our increased headcount was also due to the acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to invest in additional employees and technology to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired technologies. The increase in marketing and sales expenses was primarily due to an increase of $202 million in employee-related costs and amortization of deferred commissions, an increase of $57 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets of $38 million , and allocated overhead. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by 26 percent 40 Table of Contents since April 30, 2018 , of which a component was due to the acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018. The increase in headcount was primarily attributable to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. We expect that marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to hire additional sales personnel. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. Our general and administrative headcount increased by 24 percent since April 30, 2018 as we added personnel to support our growth as well as an increase due to the acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018. Other income and expense. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2019 2018 Gains on strategic investments, net $ 281 $ 211 $ 70 Other expense (9 ) (17 ) 8 Gains on strategic investments, net consists primarily of mark-to-market adjustments related to our publicly held equity securities, observable price adjustments related to our privately held equity securities and other adjustments. The gains were primarily due to the mark-to-market of one privately held investment of approximately $106 million during the three months ended April 30, 2019 as well as mark-to-market adjustments to our publicly traded securities of $150 million during the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to $211 million in the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Other expense primarily consists of interest expense on our debt and operating and finance leases of $35 million and $34 million during the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, offset by interest income of $26 million and $16 million during the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Investment income increased approximately $10 million due to higher interest income across our portfolio, which is primarily a result of increasing interest rates. Provision for income taxes. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance Dollars (in millions) 2019 2018 Provision for income taxes $ (90 ) $ (41 ) $ (49 ) Effective tax rate 19 % 11 % In the three months ended April 30, 2019, we recorded a tax provision of $90 million on a pretax income of $482 million . Our tax provision increased $49 million compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher U.S. income tax provision after the valuation allowance release against the majority of our U.S. deferred tax assets in fiscal 2019, offset by excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. In the three months ended April 30, 2018 , we recorded a tax provision of $41 million on a pretax income of $385 million . The tax provision recorded was primarily related to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States. Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 30, 2019 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $6.4 billion and accounts receivable of $2.2 billion . Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and obligations, U.S. treasury securities, asset backed securities, foreign government obligations, mortgage backed obligations, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. As of April 30, 2019 , our remaining performance obligation was $24.9 billion . Our remaining performance obligation represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized and includes unearned revenue, which has been invoiced and is recorded on the balance sheet, and unbilled amounts that are not recorded on the balance sheet, that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided by operating activities and, if necessary, our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility and unbilled amounts related to contracted non-cancelable subscription agreements, which is not reflected on the balance sheet, will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt repayment needs over the next 12 months. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. To facilitate these acquisitions or investments, we may seek additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all, which may affect our ability to complete subsequent acquisitions or investments. 41 Table of Contents We do not believe the adoption of Topic 842 will impact the cost of or limit our borrowing capacity from third party lenders. Cash Flows For the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , our cash flows were as follows (in millions): 1 Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,965 $ 1,466 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (726 ) 276 Net cash provided by financing activities 207 1,625 Cash provided by operating activities has historically been affected by the amount of net income adjusted for non-cash expense items such as depreciation and amortization; amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations; the expense associated with stock-based awards; net gains on strategic investments; the timing of employee related costs including commissions and bonus payments; the timing of payments against accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities; the timing of our semi-annual interest payments related to our senior notes; the timing of collections from our customers, which is our largest source of operating cash flows; the timing of business combination activity and the related integration and transaction costs; and changes in working capital accounts. Our working capital accounts include accounts receivable, costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, prepaid assets and other current assets. Claims against working capital include accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, operating lease liabilities, current and unearned revenue. Our working capital may be impacted by factors in future periods such as billings to customers for subscriptions and support services, and the subsequent collection of those billings, certain amounts and timing of which are seasonal. Our working capital in some quarters may be impacted by adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements and this impact may increase as our working capital balances increase in our foreign subsidiaries. Our billings are also influenced by new business linearity within the quarters and across the quarters. As described above in Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow, our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals and, correspondingly, the first quarter has historically been the strongest for cash collections. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall business causes both the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter and cash collections in the first quarter to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. We generally invoice our customers for our subscription and services contracts in advance in annual installments. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. Such invoice amounts are initially reflected in accounts receivable and unearned revenue, which is reflected on the balance sheets, and as the next billing cycle approaches, the corresponding unearned revenue decreases to zero. The operating cash flow benefit of increased billing activity generally occurs in the subsequent quarter when we collect from our customers. As such, our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. The net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2019 primarily related to the purchases of marketable securities of $734 million . The net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2018 primarily related to sales and maturities of marketable securities of $986 million , which were offset by the cash outflows for the period from purchases of marketable securities of $263 million , acquisitions of $182 million and new office build-outs and capital investments of $122 million . Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2019 consisted primarily of $219 million from proceeds from equity plans. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2018 consisted primarily of $2.5 billion from proceeds from issuance of debt and $201 million from proceeds from equity plans offset by $1.0 billion in repayments of debt. 42 Table of Contents Debt The carrying values of our borrowings were as follows (in millions ): Instrument Date of issuance Maturity date Effective interest rate for the three months ended April 30, 2019 April 30, 2019 January 31, 2019 2021 Term Loan May 2018 May 2021 3.37% $ 500 $ 499 2023 Senior Notes April 2018 April 2023 3.26% 993 993 2028 Senior Notes April 2018 April 2028 3.70% 1,488 1,488 Loan assumed on 50 Fremont February 2015 June 2023 3.75% 196 196 Total carrying value of debt 3,177 3,176 Less current portion of debt (4 ) (3 ) Total noncurrent debt $ 3,173 $ 3,173 As of April 30, 2019 , we have senior unsecured debt outstanding due in 2021, 2023 and 2028 with a total carrying value of $3.0 billion . In addition, we have senior secured notes outstanding related to our loan on 50 Fremont due in 2023 with a total carrying value of $196 million . We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of April 30, 2019 . We maintain a revolving loan credit agreement that provides for $1.0 billion unsecured financing ("Credit Facility") that matures in April 2023. We may use the proceeds of future borrowings under the Credit Facility for refinancing other indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted acquisitions. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility as of April 30, 2019 . As of April 30, 2019 , we have a total of $93 million in letters of credit outstanding in favor of certain landlords for office space. To date, no amounts have been drawn against the letters of credit, which renew annually and expire at various dates through May 2033 . We do not have any special purpose entities, and other than operating leases for office space and computer equipment, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space, co-location data center facilities and our development and test data center, as well as leases for computer equipment, software, furniture and fixtures, excluding all secured and unsecured debt. At April 30, 2019 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows (in millions ): Operating Leases (1) Finance Leases Fiscal Period: Remaining nine months of Fiscal 2020 $ 557 $ 174 Fiscal 2021 669 67 Fiscal 2022 470 23 Fiscal 2023 337 23 Fiscal 2024 276 24 Thereafter 1,109 434 Total minimum lease payments $ 3,418 $ 745 (1) Operating leases do not include sublease income. We have entered into various sublease agreements with third parties. Under these agreements, we expect to receive sublease income of approximately $21 million in the remainder of fiscal year 2020, $127 million in the next four years and $73 million thereafter. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. These options are reflected in our future contractual obligations when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. The majority of our operating lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these options and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations. 43 Table of Contents As of April 30, 2019 , we have additional operating leases that have not yet commenced totaling $2.0 billion. These operating leases include agreements for office facilities to be constructed and will commence between fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 2025 with lease terms of 9 to 17 years. During fiscal 2020 and in future fiscal years, we have made and expect to continue to make additional investments in our infrastructure to scale our operations, increase productivity and enhance our security measures. We plan to upgrade or replace various internal systems to scale with our overall growth. Additionally, we expect capital expenditures to be higher in absolute dollars and remain consistent as a percentage of total revenues in future periods as a result of continued office build-outs, other leasehold improvements and data center investments. Upcoming Business Combinations In May 2019, we acquired all outstanding stock of MapAnything, Inc. (MapAnything), in exchange for approximately $225 million. In addition, in June 2019, we acquired all outstanding shares of Salesforce.org in exchange for approximately $300 million. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our discussion about new accounting pronouncements adopted and those pending. Environmental, Social and Governance We believe the business of business is improving the state of the world for all of our stakeholders, including our stockholders, customers, partners, employees, community, environment and society. We are committed to creating a sustainable, low-carbon future by delivering a carbon neutral cloud, operating as a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions company and by working to achieve our goal of 100 percent renewable energy for our global operations by fiscal 2022. We also believe consistent, comparable and reliable disclosures around climate-related risks and opportunities are important. To this end, we are working to align with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board's ("FSB") Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD") and of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB"). In addition, we have spearheaded human capital management initiatives to drive equality in four key areas: equal rights, equal pay, equal education and equal opportunity. We also pioneered and have inspired other companies to adopt our 1-1-1 integrated philanthropy model, which leverages one percent of a companys equity, employee time and product to help improve communities around the world. We publish an annual stakeholder impact report on our website detailing our overall strategy relating to environmental, social and governance (ESG) programs as well as our efforts in these areas. We leverage a number of communications channels and strategic content to better serve and engage our many stakeholders. Our sustainability website, www.salesforce.com/company/sustainability, provides information regarding our environmental and other sustainability efforts, including our annual impact reports and our environmental policy. At our equality portal, www.salesforce.com/company/equality, our stakeholders can gain insights on our approach to equality, see our company profile by gender, and review our most recent Employer Information Report, which provides a snapshot in time of our U.S. demographics based on categories prescribed by the federal government. In addition, stakeholders can learn about equality through one of our many free Trailheads. Our annual proxy statement, available on the Investor Relations website, www.investor.salesforce.com, or www.sec.gov, provides additional details on our corporate governance practices, including our board composition. 44 Table of Contents