ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, trend analyses, statements regarding future events, future financial performance, our anticipated growth, the effect of general economic and market conditions, our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be the leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms and to lead the industry shift to the social enterprise, our service performance and security, the expenses associated with new data centers, additional data center capacity, real estate and office facilities space, our operating results, new features and services, our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary companies, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, and the continued growth and ability to maintain deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to develop our brands, the effect of evolving government regulations, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our financial results, the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future and related matters, the impact of expensing stock options, the sufficiency of our capital resources, and potential litigation involving us, all of which are based on current expectations, estimates, and forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, variations of such words, and similar expressions are also intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below, under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, for factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing and social enterprise solutions, and are dedicated to helping customers transform themselves into social enterprises. Social enterprises leverage social, mobile and open technologies to place their customers and employees at the center of their business and to engage and collaborate with them in new and powerful ways. Our technologies are targeted at businesses of all sizes and industries worldwide. We were founded in February 1999 and began offering our enterprise customer relationship management (CRM) application service in February 2000. Since then, we have augmented our CRM service with new editions, services and enhanced features. Over the last few years, we have both developed and acquired several mobile, social and open technologies. In fiscal 2012, we introduced our social enterprise solution which consists of applications and platforms that helps companies transform themselves into social enterprises by creating customer social profiles and employee, customer and product social networks. Our objective is to help companies put customers at the center of their businesses and transform themselves into social enterprises by leveraging our applications and platforms. Key elements of our strategy include: Strengthening our existing Sales Cloud and Service Cloud applications and extending into new functional areas within the social enterprise; Leading the industry transformation to the social enterprise; Pursuing new customers and new territories aggressively; Deepening relationships with our existing customer base; and Encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platforms. 31 Table of Contents We believe the factors that will influence our ability to achieve our objectives include our prospective customers willingness to migrate to enterprise cloud computing services; the performance and security of our service; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved features; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; successful customer adoption and utilization of our service; acceptance of our service in markets where we have few customers; the emergence of additional competitors in our market and improved product offerings by existing and new competitors; the location of new data centers; third-party developers willingness to develop applications on our platforms; and general economic conditions which could affect our customers ability and willingness to purchase our services, delay the customers purchasing decision or affect renewal rates. To address these factors, we will need to, among other things, continue to add substantial numbers of paying subscriptions, upgrade our customers to fully featured versions such as our Unlimited Edition or arrangements such as a Social Enterprise License Agreement, provide high quality technical support to our customers and encourage the development of third-party applications on our platforms. Our plans to invest for future growth include the continuation of the expansion of our data center capacity. We also plan to continue to hire additional personnel, particularly in direct sales, other customer-related areas and research and development. As part of our growth plans, we intend to continue to focus on retaining customers at the time of renewal. Additionally, we plan to: expand our domestic and international selling and marketing activities; continue to develop our brands; add additional distribution channels; increase our research and development activities to upgrade and extend our service offerings; develop new services and technologies and integrate acquired technologies; and add to our global infrastructure to support our growth. We also regularly evaluate acquisitions or investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our service offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. As such, we plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in fiscal 2013 to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. In November 2010, we purchased approximately 14 acres of undeveloped real estate in San Francisco, California, including entitlements and improvements associated with the land. We have capitalized all pre-construction activities related to the development of the land, including interest costs and property taxes since the November 2010 purchase. The pre-construction costs capitalized for the three months ended April 30, 2012 were $5.7 million. During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we suspended pre-construction activity. The total carrying value of the land, building improvements and perpetual parking rights was $321.1 million as of April 30, 2012. We are currently evaluating our future needs for office facilities space and our options for the undeveloped real estate. We expect marketing and sales costs, which were 53 percent of our total revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2012 and 51 percent for the same period a year ago, to continue to represent a substantial portion of total revenues in the future as we seek to add and manage more paying subscribers, and build greater brand awareness. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2013, for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2013. Sources of Revenues We derive our revenues from: (1) subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services; (2) support revenues from customers purchasing additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fees; (3) professional services, which include consulting services such as process mapping and project management, and implementation services including systems integration, technical architecture and development, and data conversion; and (4) other revenue, which consists primarily of training fees. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 94 percent of our total revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2012. Subscription revenues are driven primarily by the number of paying subscribers, varying service types, the price of our service and service renewal rates. We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity (e.g., 32 Table of Contents a company, a distinct business unit of a large corporation, a partnership, etc.) that has entered into a contract to access our enterprise cloud computing services. We define a subscription as a unique user account purchased by a customer for use by its employees or other customer-authorized users, and we refer to each such user as a subscriber. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues during the three months ended April 30, 2012 and 2011. Subscription and support revenues are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contract. The typical subscription and support term is 12 to 24 months, although terms range from one to 60 months. Our subscription and support contracts are non-cancelable, though customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we materially fail to perform. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual or quarterly installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue, or in revenue depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period. Professional services and other revenues consist of fees associated with consulting and implementation services and training. Our consulting and implementation engagements are typically billed on a time and materials basis. We also offer a number of training classes on implementing, using and administering our service that are billed on a per person, per class basis. Our typical professional services payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. In determining whether professional services can be accounted for separately from subscription and support revenues, we consider a number of factors, which are described in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Revenue Recognition below. Prior to February 1, 2011, the deliverables in multiple-deliverable arrangements were accounted for separately if the delivered items had standalone value and there was objective and reliable evidence of fair value for the undelivered items. If the deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement could not be accounted for separately, the total arrangement fee was recognized ratably as a single unit of accounting over the contracted term of the subscription agreement. A significant portion of our multiple-deliverable arrangements were accounted for as a single unit of accounting because we did not have objective and reliable evidence of fair value for certain of our deliverables. Additionally, in these situations, we deferred the direct costs of a related professional service arrangement and amortized those costs over the same period as the professional services revenue was recognized. In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605), Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangementsa consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (ASU 2009-13) which amended the previous multiple-deliverable arrangements accounting guidance. Pursuant to the new guidance, objective and reliable evidence of fair value of the deliverables to be delivered is no longer required in order to account for deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement separately. Instead, arrangement consideration is allocated to deliverables based on their relative selling price. In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we adopted this new accounting guidance on a prospective basis. We applied the new accounting guidance to those multiple-deliverable arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after February 1, 2011 which was the beginning of our fiscal 2012. Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in either quarterly or annual cycles. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we introduced greater operational discipline around annual invoicing, for both new business and renewals which resulted in an increase in deferred revenue. Occasionally, we bill customers for their multi-year contract on a single invoice which results in an increase in noncurrent deferred revenue. There is a disproportionate weighting towards annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year on year compounding effect 33 Table of Contents of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, the sequential quarterly changes in accounts receivable and the related deferred revenue during the first three quarters of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of the billing activity that occurs in the fourth quarter as displayed below: (in thousands) April 30, 2012 Fiscal 2013 Accounts receivable, net $ 371,395 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 1,334,716 (in thousands) April 30, 2011 July 31, 2011 October 31, 2011 January 31, 2012 Fiscal 2012 Accounts receivable, net $ 270,816 $ 342,397 $ 312,331 $ 683,745 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 915,133 935,266 917,821 1,380,295 (in thousands) April 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 October 31, 2010 January 31, 2011 Fiscal 2011 Accounts receivable, net $ 183,612 $ 228,550 $ 258,764 $ 426,943 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 664,529 683,019 694,557 934,941 Unbilled Deferred Revenue The deferred revenue balance on our condensed consolidated balance sheet does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Unbilled deferred revenue was approximately $2.7 billion as of April 30, 2012 and approximately $2.2 billion as of January 31, 2012. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. We expect that the amount of unbilled deferred revenue will change from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including the specific timing and duration of large customer subscription agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, the specific timing of customer renewals, foreign currency fluctuations, the timing of when unbilled deferred revenue is to be recognized as revenue, and changes in customer financial circumstances. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled deferred revenue is typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increases if the agreement is renewed. Low unbilled deferred revenue attributable to a particular subscription agreement is often associated with an impending renewal and may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. Accordingly, we expect that the amount of aggregate unbilled deferred revenue will change from year-to-year depending in part upon the number and dollar amount of subscription agreements at particular stages in their renewal cycle. Such fluctuations are not a reliable indicator of future revenues. Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenues. Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to hosting our service and providing support, the costs of data center capacity, depreciation or operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software, allocated overhead and amortization expense associated with capitalized software related to our services and acquired developed technologies. We allocate overhead such as rent and occupancy charges based on headcount. Employee benefit costs and taxes are allocated based upon a percentage of total compensation expense. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based expenses, the cost of 34 Table of Contents subcontractors and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenue than for our enterprise cloud computing subscription service due to the direct labor costs and costs of subcontractors. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services. For example, we plan to open additional data centers and expand our current data centers in the future. Additionally, as we acquire new businesses and technologies, the amortization expense associated with this activity will be included in cost of revenues. The timing of these additional expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in the affected periods. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, the costs of our development and test data center and allocated overhead. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and services, integrating acquired technologies, increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our enterprise cloud computing services. Our proprietary, scalable and secure multi-tenant architecture enables us to provide all of our customers with a service based on a single version of our application. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions, which enables us to have relatively lower research and development expenses as compared to traditional enterprise software companies. We expect that in the future, research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we improve and extend our service offerings, develop new technologies and integrate acquired businesses and technologies. Marketing and Sales. Marketing and sales expenses are our largest cost and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for our sales and marketing staff, including commissions, payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. We plan to continue to invest in marketing and sales by expanding our domestic and international selling and marketing activities, building brand awareness, attracting new customers and sponsoring additional marketing events. The timing of these marketing events, such as our annual and largest event, Dreamforce, will affect our marketing costs in a particular quarter. We expect that in the future, marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest cost. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, professional fees, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that in the future, general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our infrastructure and we incur additional employee related costs, professional fees and insurance costs related to the growth of our business and international expansion. We expect general and administrative costs as a percentage of total revenues to remain flat for the next several quarters. Stock-Based Expenses. Our cost of revenues and operating expenses include stock-based expenses related to equity plans for employees and non-employee directors. We recognize our stock-based compensation as an expense in the statement of operations based on their fair values and vesting periods. These charges have been significant in the past and we expect that they will increase as our stock price increases, as we hire more employees and seek to retain existing employees. During the three months ended April 30, 2012, we recognized stock-based expense of $81.3 million. As of April 30, 2012, the aggregate stock compensation remaining to be amortized to costs and expenses was $888.1 million. We expect this stock compensation balance to be amortized as follows: $255.2 million during the remaining nine months of fiscal 2013; $292.4 million during fiscal 2014; $232.8 million during fiscal 2015, $105.1 million during fiscal 2016 and $2.6 million during fiscal 2017. The expected amortization reflects only outstanding stock awards as of April 30, 2012 and assumes no forfeiture activity. We expect to continue to issue stock-based awards to our employees in future periods. 35 Table of Contents Amortization of Purchased Intangibles from Business Combinations . Our cost of revenues and operating expenses include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts, trade names, customer lists and customer relationships. We expect this expense to increase as we acquire more companies. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our condensed consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition . We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services and from customers purchasing additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. We commence revenue recognition when all of the following conditions are satisfied: There is persuasive evidence of an arrangement; The service has been or is being provided to the customer; The collection of the fees is reasonably assured; and The amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. Our subscription service arrangements are non-cancelable and do not contain refund-type provisions. Subscription and Support Revenues Subscription and support revenues are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date our service is made available to customers. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Professional Services and Other Revenues The majority of our professional services contracts are on a time and material basis. When these services are not combined with subscription revenues as a single unit of accounting, as discussed below, these revenues are recognized as the services are rendered for time and material contracts, and when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer for fixed price contracts. Training revenues are recognized after the services are performed. Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements We enter into arrangements with multiple-deliverables that generally include subscription, premium support, and professional services. 36 Table of Contents Prior to February 1, 2011, the deliverables in multiple-deliverable arrangements were accounted for separately if the delivered items had standalone value and there was objective and reliable evidence of fair value for the undelivered items. If the deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement could not be accounted for separately, the total arrangement fee was recognized ratably as a single unit of accounting over the contracted term of the subscription agreement. A significant portion of our multiple-deliverable arrangements were accounted for as a single unit of accounting because we did not have objective and reliable evidence of fair value for certain of our deliverables. Additionally, in these situations, we deferred the direct costs of a professional services arrangement and amortized those costs over the same period as the professional services revenue is recognized. In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605), Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangementsa consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (ASU 2009-13) which amended the previous multiple-deliverable arrangements accounting guidance. Pursuant to the updated guidance, objective and reliable evidence of fair value of the deliverables to be delivered is no longer required in order to account for deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement separately. Instead, arrangement consideration is allocated to deliverables based on their relative selling price. In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we adopted this updated accounting guidance on a prospective basis. We have applied the updated accounting guidance to those multiple-deliverable arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after February 1, 2011 which is the beginning of our fiscal year. The adoption of this updated accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 As of April 30, 2012, the deferred professional services revenue and deferred costs under the previous accounting guidance are $23.6 million and $11.6 million, respectively, which will continue to be recognized over the related remaining subscription period. Under the updated accounting guidance, in order to treat deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement as separate units of accounting, the deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. If the deliverables have standalone value upon delivery, we account for each deliverable separately. Subscription services have standalone value as such services are often sold separately. In determining whether professional services have standalone value, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription service start date, and the contractual dependence of the subscription service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. To date, we have concluded that all of the professional services included in multiple-deliverable arrangements executed have standalone value. Under the updated accounting guidance, when multiple-deliverables included in an arrangement are separated into different units of accounting, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the identified separate units based on a relative selling price hierarchy. We determine the relative selling price for a deliverable based on its vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE), if available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP), if VSOE is not available. We have determined that third-party evidence (TPE) is not a practical alternative due to differences in our service offerings compared to other parties and the availability of relevant third-party pricing information. The amount of revenue allocated to delivered items is limited by contingent revenue, if any. For certain professional services, we have established VSOE as a consistent number of standalone sales of this deliverable have been priced within a reasonably narrow range. We have not established VSOE for our subscription services due to lack of pricing consistency, the introduction of new services and other factors. Accordingly, we use our BESP to determine the relative selling price. We determined BESP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where our services are sold, our price lists, our go-to-market strategy, historical standalone sales and contract prices. The determination of BESP is made 37 Table of Contents through consultation with and approval by management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in relative selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. Deferred Revenue. The deferred revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription service described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. We generally invoice customers in annual or quarterly installments. Deferred revenue is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing and new business linearity within the quarter. As a result of the updated accounting guidance previously described, billings against professional services arrangements entered into prior to February 1, 2011 were generally added to deferred revenue and recognized over the remaining related subscription contract term. Deferred revenue that will be recognized during the succeeding twelve month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as noncurrent. Deferred Commissions. We defer commission payments to our direct sales force. The commissions are deferred and amortized to sales expense over the non-cancelable terms of the related subscription contracts with our customers, which are typically 12 to 24 months. The commission payments, which are paid in full the month after the customers service commences, are a direct and incremental cost of the revenue arrangements. The deferred commission amounts are recoverable through the future revenue streams under the non-cancelable customer contracts. We believe this is the preferable method of accounting as the commission charges are so closely related to the revenue from the non-cancelable customer contracts that they should be recorded as an asset and charged to expense over the same period that the subscription revenue is recognized. During the three months ended April 30, 2012, we deferred $32.1 million of commission expenditures and we amortized $36.2 million to sales expense. During the same period a year ago, we deferred $20.5 million of commission expenditures and we amortized $24.7 million to sales expense. Deferred commissions on our condensed consolidated balance sheets totaled $172.5 million at April 30, 2012 and $176.6 million at January 31, 2012. Strategic Investments . We report our investments in non-marketable equity and debt securities, which consist of minority equity and debt investments in privately-held companies, at cost or fair value when an event or circumstance indicates an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. Management evaluates financial results, earnings trends, technology milestones and subsequent financing of these companies, as well as the general market conditions to identify indicators of other-than temporary impairment. Business Combinations. Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets and assets acquired and liabilities assumed and pre-acquisition contingencies. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from subscription and support contracts, professional services contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; the acquired companys trade name, trademark and existing customer relationship, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and trademark will continue to be used in our offerings; 38 Table of Contents uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Stock-Based Awards. We recognize the fair value of our stock awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award which is the vesting term of generally four years for stock options and restricted stock awards and one year for shares issued pursuant to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The fair value of each award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The estimated forfeiture rate applied is based on historical forfeiture rates. Inputs into the Black-Scholes option pricing model include: The estimated life for the stock options which is estimated based on an actual analysis of expected life. The estimated life for shares issued pursuant to our ESPP is based on the two purchase periods within the 12 month offering period; The risk free interest rate which is based on the rate for a U.S. government security with the same estimated life at the time of the option grant and the stock purchase rights; and The future stock price volatility which is estimated considering both our observed option-implied volatilities and our historical volatility calculations. We believe this is the best estimate of the expected volatility over the expected life of our stock options and stock purchase rights. Income Taxes. We account for income taxes using the liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets or liabilities for the tax-effected temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of our assets and liabilities and for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The tax expense or benefit for unusual items, or certain adjustments to the valuation allowance are treated as discrete items in the interim period in which the events occur. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions, compensation, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and accounting principles. 39 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in thousands). Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Revenues: Subscription and support $ 655,220 $ 473,504 Professional services and other 40,247 30,860 Total revenues 695,467 504,364 Cost of revenues: Subscription and support 108,744 75,243 Professional services and other 42,807 27,823 Total cost of revenues 151,551 103,066 Gross profit 543,916 401,298 Operating expenses: Research and development 94,776 65,292 Marketing and sales 369,789 254,471 General and administrative 101,600 84,338 Total operating expenses 566,165 404,101 Loss from operations (22,249 ) (2,803 ) Investment income 4,461 8,055 Interest expense (6,370 ) (3,671 ) Other expense (710 ) (800 ) Income (loss) before benefit (provision) for income taxes (24,868 ) 781 Benefit (provision) for income taxes 5,393 (251 ) Net income (loss) $ (19,475 ) $ 530 As of April 30, 2012 January 31, 2012 Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 1,657,089 $ 1,447,174 Deferred revenue, current and noncurrent 1,334,716 1,380,295 Unbilled deferred revenue was approximately $2.7 billion as of April 30, 2012 and $2.2 billion as of January 31, 2012. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our non-cancelable subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. Cost of revenues and marketing and sales expenses include the following amounts related to amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations: Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Cost of revenues $ 17,448 $ 9,095 Marketing and sales 3,427 1,240 Cost of revenues and operating expenses include the following amounts related to stock-based awards: Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Cost of revenues $ 7,253 $ 3,651 Research and development 15,667 7,839 Marketing and sales 41,987 23,787 General and administrative 16,359 12,281 40 Table of Contents Revenues by geography were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Americas $ 484,953 $ 340,018 Europe 118,294 94,395 Asia Pacific 92,220 69,951 $ 695,467 $ 504,364 The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenues: Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Revenues: Subscription and support 94 % 94 % Professional services and other 6 6 Total revenues 100 100 Cost of revenues: Subscription and support 16 15 Professional services and other 6 5 Total cost of revenues 22 20 Gross profit 78 80 Operating expenses: Research and development 14 13 Marketing and sales 53 51 General and administrative 14 17 Total operating expenses 81 81 Loss from operations (3 ) (1 ) Investment income 0 2 Interest expense (1 ) (1 ) Other expense 0 0 Income (loss) before benefit (provision) for income taxes (4 ) 0 Benefit (provision) for income taxes 1 0 Net income (loss) (3 %) 0 % Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Amortization of purchased intangibles: Cost of revenues 3 % 2 % Marketing and sales 0 0 Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Stock-based awards: Cost of revenues 1 % 1 % Research and development 2 2 Marketing and sales 6 5 General and administrative 2 2 41 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Revenues by geography: Americas 70 % 67 % Europe 17 19 Asia Pacific 13 14 100 % 100 % Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 and 2011 Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 655,220 $ 473,504 $ 181,716 38 % Professional services and other 40,247 30,860 9,387 30 % Total revenues $ 695,467 $ 504,364 $ 191,103 38 % Total revenues were $695.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $504.4 million during the same period a year ago, an increase of $191.1 million, or 38 percent. Subscription and support revenues were $655.2 million, or 94 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $473.5 million, or 94 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago. The increase in subscription and support revenues was due primarily to new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers and improved renewal rates as compared to a year ago. The price per user per month for our three primary offerings, Professional Edition, Enterprise Edition and Unlimited Edition, in the quarter ended April 30, 2012 has generally remained consistent relative to prior periods. Professional services and other revenues were $40.2 million, or six percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $30.9 million, or six percent of total revenues, for the same period a year ago. The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. Revenues in Europe and Asia Pacific accounted for $210.5 million, or 30 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $164.3 million, or 33 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $46.2 million, or 28 percent. The increase in revenues outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our service, our focus on marketing our services internationally and improved renewal rates. Additionally, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies contributed to a slight decrease in U.S. dollar revenues outside of the Americas for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period a year ago. The foreign currency impact had the effect of decreasing our aggregate revenues by $6.2 million compared to the same period a year ago. As part of our overall growth, we expect the percentage of our revenue generated outside of the Americas to increase as a percentage of our total revenues worldwide. Cost of Revenues. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Subscription and support $ 108,744 $ 75,243 $ 33,501 Professional services and other 42,807 27,823 14,984 Total cost of revenues $ 151,551 $ 103,066 $ 48,485 Percent of total revenues 22 % 20 % 42 Table of Contents Cost of revenues was $151.6 million, or 22 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $103.1 million, or 20 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $48.5 million. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $19.3 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $3.6 million in stock based expenses, an increase of $7.4 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, an increase of $13.8 million in depreciation and amortization expenses, $8.4 million of which related to the amortization of purchased intangible assets and an increase of $2.3 million in allocated overhead. We have increased our professional services headcount since April 30, 2011 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers. A majority of the increase in headcount was due to the acquisition of Model Metrics in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. The increase in expense for the additional professional services headcount mentioned above, resulted in the cost of professional services and other revenues to be in excess of the related revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2012 by $2.6 million. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity. Additionally, the amortization of purchased intangible assets will increase as we acquire additional businesses and technologies. We also plan to add additional employees in our professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues in future periods. Research and Development. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Research and development $ 94,776 $ 65,292 $ 29,484 Percent of total revenues 14 % 13 % Research and development expenses were $94.8 million, or 14 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $65.3 million, or 13 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $29.5 million. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $18.4 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $7.8 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $1.0 million in our development and test data center and an increase of $1.5 million in allocated overhead. We increased our research and development headcount by 59 percent since April 30, 2011 in order to improve and extend our service offerings and develop new technologies. Some of the increase in headcount was due to acquired businesses. Marketing and Sales. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Marketing and sales $ 369,789 $ 254,471 $ 115,318 Percent of total revenues 53 % 51 % Marketing and sales expenses were $369.8 million, or 53 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $254.5 million, or 51 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $115.3 million. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to increases of $80.6 million in employee-related costs, including amortization of deferred commissions, $18.2 million in stock-based expenses, $7.3 million in advertising, marketing and event costs, $3.4 million in allocated overhead, $1.6 million in outside subcontractor and other service costs and $2.2 million in depreciation and amortization. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by 45 percent since April 30, 2011 as we hired additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. Some of the increase in headcount was due to acquired businesses. 43 Table of Contents General and Administrative. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars General and administrative $ 101,600 $ 84,338 $ 17,262 Percent of total revenues 14 % 17 % General and administrative expenses were $101.6 million, or 14 percent of total revenues, for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to $84.3 million, or 17 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $17.3 million. The increase was primarily due to increases of $4.1 million in stock-based expenses, $5.7 million in depreciation and amortization and increases in employee-related costs. Our general and administrative headcount increased by 47 percent since April 30, 2011 as we added personnel to support our growth. Loss from operations. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Loss from operations $ (22,249 ) $ (2,803 ) $ (19,446 ) Percent of total revenues (3 ) % (1 ) % Loss from operations for the three months ended April 30, 2012 was $22.2 million and included $81.3 million of stock-based expenses and $20.9 million of amortization of purchased intangibles. During the same period a year ago, loss from operations was $2.8 million and included $47.6 million of stock-based expenses and $10.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles. Investment income. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Investment income $ 4,461 $ 8,055 $ (3,594 ) Percent of total revenues 0 % 2 % Investment income consists of income on cash and marketable securities balances. Investment income was $4.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012 and was $8.1 million during the same period a year ago. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in realized gains from sales of marketable securities and lower interest rates. Interest expense. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Interest expense $ (6,370 ) $ (3,671 ) $ (2,699 ) Percent of total revenues (1 ) % (1 ) % Interest expense consists of interest on our convertible senior notes and capital leases. Interest expense, net of interest costs capitalized, was $6.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012 and was $3.7 million during the same period a year ago. During the three months ended April 30, 2012, we capitalized $1.8 million of interest costs related to capital projects. Capitalized interest during the same period a year ago was $3.9 million. 44 Table of Contents Benefit (provision) for income taxes. Three Months Ended April 30, Variance (In thousands) 2012 2011 Dollars Benefit (provision) for income taxes $ 5,393 $ (251 ) $ 5,644 Effective tax rate 22 % 32 % The benefit for income taxes was $5.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012, compared to an income tax provision of $0.3 million during the same period a year ago. Our effective tax rate was 22 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2012 compared to 32 percent for the same period a year ago. The lower tax rate was primarily attributable to a detrimental foreign tax differential and non-deductible expenses arising from stock-based compensation, partially offset by state income taxes, California tax credits and tax benefits recorded in connection with acquisition related structuring of intellectual property. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2011 was 32 percent, which was lower than the federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent. The lower tax rate was attributable to the benefit of federal and California research tax credits offset by state income taxes, a detrimental foreign tax rate differential and non-deductible acquisition expenses. New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350)Testing Goodwill for Impairment (ASU 2011-08), to allow entities to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. We plan to adopt ASU 2011-08 by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 and do not believe that the adoption will have a material effect on the condensed consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 30, 2012, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1.7 billion and accounts receivable of $371.4 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $213.2 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012 and $139.5 million during the same period a year ago. Cash provided by operating activities has historically been affected by: the amount of net income (loss); sales of subscriptions, support and professional services; changes in working capital accounts, particularly increases and seasonality in accounts receivable and deferred revenue as described above, the timing of commission and bonus payments, and the timing of collections from large enterprise customers; add-backs of non-cash expense items such as depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount and the expense associated with stock-based awards. We made a tax payment of approximately $40.0 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012 as a result of the Radian6 transaction. Net cash used in investing activities was $475.0 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012 and net cash provided by investing activities was $79.4 million during the same period a year ago. The net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2012 primarily related to the purchase of Rypple in February 2012, investment of cash balances, capital expenditures and strategic investments offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $97.0 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012 and $28.0 million during the same period a year ago. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months 45 Table of Contents ended April 30, 2012 consisted primarily of $93.6 million of proceeds from equity plans and $11.0 million of excess tax benefits from employee stock plans offset by $7.6 million of principal payments on capital leases. In January 2010, we issued $575.0 million of 0.75% convertible senior notes due January 15, 2015 (the Notes) and concurrently entered into convertible notes hedges (the Note Hedges) and separate warrant transactions (the Warrants). The Notes will mature on January 15, 2015, unless earlier converted. Upon conversion of any Notes, we will deliver cash up to the principal amount of the Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Notes, shares of our common stock, cash, or a combination of both. For 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended January 31, 2012, our common stock did not trade at a price exceeding 130% of the conversion price of $85.36 per share applicable to the Notes. Accordingly, the Notes were not convertible at the holders option for the quarter ending April 30, 2012. The Notes are classified as a noncurrent liability on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2012. For 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended April 30, 2012, our common stock traded at a price exceeding 130% of the conversion price of $85.36 per share applicable to the Notes. Accordingly, the Notes will be convertible at the holders option for the quarter ending July 31, 2012, and will be reclassified as a current liability on our condensed consolidated balance sheet so long as the Notes are convertible. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and other obligations, U.S. treasury, U.S. government and U.S. agency obligations, U.S agency mortgage backed securities, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. As of April 30, 2012, we have a total of $17.4 million in letters of credit outstanding in favor of certain landlords for office space. To date, no amounts have been drawn against the letters of credit, which renew annually and mature at various dates through April 2030. We do not have any special purpose entities, and other than operating leases for office space and computer equipment, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Additionally, we currently do not have a bank line of credit. Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space and co-location facilities for data center capacity and our development and test data center, and computer equipment and furniture and fixtures. At April 30, 2012, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows (in thousands): Capital Leases Operating Leases Fiscal Period: Remaining nine months of fiscal 2013 $ 25,721 $ 96,432 Fiscal 2014 24,041 108,978 Fiscal 2015 6,949 77,666 Fiscal 2016 3,662 64,460 Fiscal 2017 2,860 54,832 Thereafter 327 251,057 Total minimum lease payments 63,560 $ 653,425 Less: amount representing interest (3,324 ) Present value of capital lease obligations $ 60,236 Our lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these options and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations. 46 Table of Contents We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities and cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over the next 12 months. During fiscal 2013, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses or joint ventures, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Commission Filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Non-GAAP gross profit, Non-GAAP operating profit and Non-GAAP net income We use the non-GAAP measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP net income to provide an additional view of operational performance by excluding non-cash expenses that are not directly related to performance in any particular period. In addition to our GAAP measures we use these non-GAAP measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business, as they exclude certain expenses. These certain expenses are excluded because the decisions which gave rise to these expenses are not made to increase revenue in a particular period, but are made for our long-term benefit over multiple periods and we are not able to change or affect these items in any particular period. We define non-GAAP net income as our total net income excluding the following components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses. In each case, for the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the component provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating the impact of certain non-cash items to our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as us, in comparing financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the impact of these non-cash items on our gross margin and operating performance. Stock-Based Expenses . The Companys compensation strategy includes the use of stock-based compensation to attract and retain employees and executives. It is principally aimed at aligning their interests with those of our stockholders and at long-term employee retention, rather than to motivate or reward operational performance for any particular period. Thus, stock-based compensation expense varies for reasons that are generally unrelated to operational decisions and performance in any particular period. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles. The Company views amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts, trade names, customer lists and customer relationships, as items arising from pre-acquisition activities determined at the time of an acquisition. While it is continually viewed for impairment, amortization of the cost of purchased intangibles is a static expense, one that is not typically affected by operations during any particular period. Amortization of Debt Discount. Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuers non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, for GAAP purposes we are required to recognize imputed interest expense on the Companys $575 million of convertible subordinated notes that were issued in a private placement in January 2010. The imputed interest rate is approximately 5.9%, while the coupon interest rate is 0.75%. The difference between the imputed interest expense and the coupon interest expense, net of the interest amount capitalized, is excluded from managements assessment of 47 Table of Contents the Companys operating performance because management believes that this non-cash expense is not indicative of ongoing operating performance. Management believes that the exclusion of the non-cash interest expense provides investors an enhanced view of the Companys operational performance. Income Tax Effects. The companys non-GAAP effective tax rate excludes the tax effect of the expense items described above. We define non-GAAP gross profit as our total revenues less cost of revenues, as reported on our condensed consolidated statement of operations, excluding the portions of stock-based expenses and amortization of purchased intangibles, as described above, that are included in cost of revenues. We define non-GAAP operating profit as our gross profit less operating expenses, as reported on our condensed consolidated statement of operations, excluding the portions of stock-based expenses and amortization of purchased intangibles, as described above, that are included in operating expenses. Non-GAAP earnings per share Management uses the non-GAAP earnings per share to provide an additional view of performance by excluding expenses that are not directly related to performance in any particular period in the earnings per share calculation. We define non-GAAP earnings per share as our non-GAAP net income, which excludes the above components, which we believe are not reflective of our ongoing operational expenses, divided by basic or diluted shares outstanding. Limitations on the use of Non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of stock-based expense, if we did not pay a portion of compensation in the form of stock-based expense, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenues and operating expenses would be higher which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share to the most comparable GAAP financial measure. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. Our reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure of gross profit, non-GAAP operating profit, net income and earnings per share to the most comparable GAAP measure, gross profit, income (loss) from operations, net income (loss) and Diluted earnings (loss) per share for the three months ended April 30, 2012 and 2011 is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Non-GAAP gross profit GAAP gross profit $ 543,916 $ 401,298 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 17,448 9,095 Stock-based expenses 7,253 3,651 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 568,617 $ 414,044 48 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Non-GAAP operating profit GAAP loss from operations $ (22,249 ) $ (2,803 ) Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 20,875 10,335 Stock-based expenses 81,266 47,558 Non-GAAP operating profit $ 79,892 $ 55,090 Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 2011 Non-GAAP net income GAAP net income (loss) $ (19,475 ) $ 530 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 20,875 10,335 Stock-based expenses 81,266 47,558 Amortization of debt discount, net 4,883 2,758 Less: Income tax effect of Non-GAAP items (33,095 ) (21,291 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 54,454 $ 39,890 Three Months Ended April 30, 2012(a) 2011 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share $ (0.14 ) $ 0.00 Plus: Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.14 0.07 Stock-based expenses 0.56 0.34 Amortization of debt discount, net 0.03 0.02 Less: Income tax effect of Non-GAAP items (0.22 ) (0.15 ) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 0.37 $ 0.28 Shares used in computing diluted net income per share 146,051 141,062 (a) Reported GAAP loss per share was calculated using the basic share count. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was calculated using the diluted share count. 49 Table of Contents The effects of dilutive securities were not included in the GAAP calculation of diluted earnings/loss per share for the three months ended April 30, 2012 because we had a net loss for the period and the effect would have been anti-dilutive. The following table reflects the effect of the dilutive securities on the basic share count used in the GAAP earnings/loss per share calculation to derive the share count used for the non-GAAP diluted earnings per share: Three Months Ended April 30, Supplemental Diluted Sharecount Information (in thousands): 2012 2011 Weighted-average shares outstanding for GAAP basic earnings per share 138,150 133,454 Effect of dilutive securities: Convertible senior notes 2,787 2,409 Warrants associated with the convertible senior note hedges 1,208 678 Employee stock awards 3,906 4,521 Adjusted weighted-average shares outstanding and assumed conversions for Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share 146,051 141,062 50 Table of Contents