Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These estimates may change, as new events occur and additional information is obtained, and such changes will be recognized in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they become known. Actual results could differ from these estimates and any such differences may be material to the Companys financial statements. Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Segments The Company operates as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker (CODM), in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Over the past few years, the Company has completed a number of acquisitions. These acquisitions have allowed the Company to expand its offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the enterprise cloud computing market. While the Company has offerings in multiple enterprise cloud computing market segments, including as a result of the Company's acquisitions, and operates in multiple countries, the Companys business operates in one operating segment because most of the Company's offerings operate on its single Customer 360 Platform and most of the Company's products are deployed in a nearly identical way, and the Companys CODM evaluates the Companys financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Concentrations of Credit Risk, Significant Customers and Investments The Companys financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable. Collateral is not required for accounts receivable. The Company maintains an allowance for its doubtful accounts receivable due to estimated credit losses. This allowance is based upon historical loss patterns, the number of days that billings are past due, an evaluation of the potential risk of loss associated with delinquent accounts and current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions to inform adjustments to historical loss patterns. The Company records the allowance against bad debt expense through the condensed consolidated statement of operations up to the amount of revenues recognized to date. Any incremental allowance is recorded as an offset to unearned revenue on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Receivables are written-off and charged against the recorded allowance when the Company has exhausted collection efforts without success. No single customer accounted for more than five percent of accounts receivable at October 31, 2020 and January 31, 2020. No single customer accounted for five percent or more of total revenue during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019. As of October 31, 2020 and January 31, 2020, assets located outside the Americas were 13 percent and 12 percent of total assets, respectively. As of October 31, 2020 and January 31, 2020, assets located in the United States were 85 percent and 87 percent of total assets, respectively. The Company is also exposed to concentrations of risk in its strategic investment portfolio. As of October 31, 2020, the Company held one publicly traded investment with a carrying value that was individually greater than 35 percent of its total strategic investments, one publicly traded investment with a carrying value that was individually approximately 20 percent of its total strategic investments and one privately held investment individually greater than five percent of its total strategic investments. As of January 31, 2020, the Company held five investments that were individually greater than five percent of its total strategic investments, of which one was publicly traded and four were privately held. The publicly traded investments held as of October 31, 2020 are different than the publicly traded investment that was held as of January 31, 2020. Revenue Recognition The Company derives its revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing the Companys enterprise cloud computing services (collectively, Cloud Services), software licenses, and from customers paying for additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fees; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management and implementation services. Other revenue consists primarily of training fees. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. If the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, for example, overage fees, contingent fees or service level penalties, the Company includes an estimate of the amount it expects to receive for the total transaction price if it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. 10 Table of Contents The Company determines the amount of revenue to be recognized through the application of the following steps: Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer; Identification of the performance obligations in the contract; Determination of the transaction price; Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and Recognition of revenue when or as the Company satisfies the performance obligations. The Companys subscription service arrangements are non-cancelable and do not contain refund-type provisions. Subscription and Support Revenues Subscription and support revenues are comprised of fees that provide customers with access to Cloud Services, software licenses and related support and updates during the term of the arrangement. Cloud Services allow customers to use the Company's multi-tenant software without taking possession of the software. Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term. With the May 2018 acquisition of MuleSoft, Inc. (MuleSoft) and the August 2019 acquisition of Tableau Software, Inc. (Tableau), subscription and support revenues also includes revenues associated with software licenses. These licenses for on-premises software provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available. Customers purchase these term licenses through a subscription. Revenues from distinct licenses are generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the customer. In cases where the Company allocates revenue to software updates and support revenue, the allocated revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the contract term. The Company typically invoices its customers annually. Typical payment terms provide that customers pay within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in unearned revenue or revenue, depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. Professional Services and Other Revenues The Companys professional services contracts are either on a time and materials, fixed fee or subscription basis. These revenues are recognized as the services are rendered for time and materials contracts, on a proportional performance basis for fixed price contracts or ratably over the contract term for subscription professional services contracts. Training revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Significant Judgments - Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations The Company enters into contracts with its customers that may include promises to transfer multiple Cloud Services, software licenses, premium support and professional services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer products or services that are distinct. Determining whether products and services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately or combined as one unit of accounting may require significant judgment. Cloud Services and software licenses are distinct because such offerings are often sold separately. In determining whether professional services are distinct, the Company considers the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription start date and the contractual dependence of the service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. To date, the Company has concluded that professional services included in contracts with multiple performance obligations are distinct. The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative SSP basis. The SSP is the price at which the Company would sell a promised product or service separately to a customer. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. The Company determines SSP by considering its overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include the Companys discounting practices, the size and volume of the Companys transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where services are sold, price lists, the Company's go-to-market strategy, historical sales and contract prices. In instances where the Company does not sell or price a product or service separately, the Company determines relative fair value using information that may include market conditions or other observable inputs. As the Companys go-to-market strategies evolve, the Company may modify its pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to SSP. In certain cases, the Company is able to establish SSP based on observable prices of products or services sold or priced separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. The Company uses a single amount to estimate SSP when it has observable prices. 11 Table of Contents If SSP is not directly observable, for example when pricing is highly variable, the Company uses a range of SSP. The Company determines the SSP range using information that may include pricing practices or other observable inputs. The Company typically has more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customer size and geography. Costs Capitalized to Obtain Revenue Contracts The Company capitalizes incremental costs of obtaining non-cancelable Cloud Services subscription, ongoing Cloud Services support and license support revenue contracts. For contracts with on-premises software licenses where revenue is recognized upfront when the software is made available to the customer, costs allocable to those licenses are expensed as they are incurred. Capitalized amounts consist primarily of sales commissions paid to the Companys direct sales force. Capitalized amounts also include (1) amounts paid to employees other than the direct sales force who earn incentive payouts under annual compensation plans that are tied to the value of contracts acquired, (2) commissions paid to employees upon renewals of subscription and support contracts, (3) the associated payroll taxes and fringe benefit costs associated with the payments to the Companys employees, and (4) to a lesser extent, success fees paid to partners in emerging markets where the Company has a limited presence. Costs capitalized related to new revenue contracts are amortized on a straight-line basis over four years , which, although longer than the typical initial contract period, reflects the average period of benefit, including expected contract renewals. In arriving at this average period of benefit, the Company evaluated both qualitative and quantitative factors which included the estimated life cycles of its offerings and its customer attrition. Additionally, the Company amortizes capitalized costs for renewals and success fees paid to partners over two years . The capitalized amounts are recoverable through future revenue streams under all non-cancelable customer contracts. The Company periodically evaluates whether there have been any changes in its business, the market conditions in which it operates or other events which would indicate that its amortization period should be changed or if there are potential indicators of impairment. Amortization of capitalized costs to obtain revenue contracts is included in marketing and sales expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. During the nine months ended October 31, 2020, the Company capitalized $ 973 million of costs to obtain revenue contracts and amortized $ 768 million to marketing and sales expense. During the same period a year ago, the Company capitalized $ 543 million of costs to obtain revenue contracts and amortized $ 647 million to marketing and sales expense. During the three months ended April 30, 2020, the Company offered its direct sales force a partial minimum commission guarantee that would pay the greater of actual commissions earned or a fixed amount of their variable compensation that would have been otherwise paid during the three months ended April 30, 2020 if incremental new business was not impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. As these payments were guaranteed, and not a cost to obtain a revenue contract, the amounts were immediately expensed and are reflected in the Companys condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended October 31, 2020. Costs capitalized to obtain a revenue contract, net on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets totaled $ 2.5 billion as of October 31, 2020 and $ 2.3 billion as of January 31, 2020. There were no impairments of costs to obtain revenue contracts for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value. Marketable Securities The Company considers all of its marketable debt securities as available for use in current operations, including those with maturity dates beyond one year, and therefore classifies these securities within current assets on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Securities are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value, with the change in unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported as a separate component on the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income until realized. Fair value is determined based on quoted market rates when observable or utilizing data points that are observable, such as quoted prices, interest rates and yield curves. Securities with an amortized cost basis in excess of estimated fair value are assessed to determine what amount of the excess, if any, is caused by expected credit losses, as required by new accounting pronouncement, Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13), discussed in further detail below. Expected credit losses on securities are recognized in other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of operations, and any remaining unrealized losses, net of taxes, are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity. For the purposes of computing realized and unrealized gains and losses, the cost of securities sold is based on the specific-identification method. Interest on securities classified as available for sale is included as a component of investment income. 12 Table of Contents Strategic Investments The Company holds strategic investments in privately held debt and equity securities and publicly held equity securities in which the Company does not have a controlling interest. Privately held equity securities which the Company does not have a controlling financial interest in but does exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Privately held equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are recorded at cost and adjusted for observable transactions for same or similar investments of the same issuer (referred to as the measurement alternative) or impairment. All gains and losses on privately held equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recorded through gains on strategic investments, net on the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Privately held debt securities are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded through accumulated other comprehensive income on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Valuations of privately held securities are inherently complex due to the lack of readily available market data and require the Company's use of judgment. The carrying value is not adjusted for the Company's privately held equity securities if there are no observable price changes in a same or similar security from the same issuer or if there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that may indicate impairment, as discussed below. In determining the estimated fair value of its strategic investments in privately held companies, the Company utilizes the most recent data available to the Company. The Company assesses its privately held debt and equity securities in its strategic investment portfolio at least quarterly for impairment. The Companys impairment analysis encompasses an assessment of both qualitative and quantitative factors including the investee's financial metrics, market acceptance of the investee's product or technology and the rate at which the investee is using its cash. If the investment is considered impaired, the Company recognizes an impairment through the condensed consolidated statement of operations and establishes a new carrying value for the investment. Publicly held equity securities are measured at fair value with changes recorded through gains on strategic investments, net on the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company enters into foreign currency derivative contracts with financial institutions to reduce foreign exchange risk. The Company uses forward currency derivative contracts to minimize the Companys exposure to balances primarily denominated in the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar and Australian Dollar. The Companys foreign currency derivative contracts, which are not designated as hedging instruments, are used to reduce the exchange rate risk associated primarily with intercompany receivables and payables. The Companys derivative financial instruments program is not designated for trading or speculative purposes. The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements with the financial institutions with which it contracts for such derivative contracts, which permit net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty, thereby reducing credit-related losses in the event of the financial institutions' nonperformance. Outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts are recorded at fair value on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Foreign currency derivative contracts are marked-to-market at the end of each reporting period with gains and losses recognized as other expense to offset the gains or losses resulting from the settlement or remeasurement of the underlying foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. While the contract or notional amount is often used to express the volume of foreign currency derivative contracts, the amounts potentially subject to credit risk are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties obligations under the agreements exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties. Fair Value Measurement The Company measures its cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and foreign currency derivative contracts at fair value. In addition, the Company measures its strategic investments, including its publicly held equity securities, privately held debt securities and privately held equity securities for which there has been an observable price change in a same or similar security, at fair value. The additional disclosures regarding the Companys fair value measurements are included in Note 5 Fair Value Measurement. 13 Table of Contents Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of those assets as follows: Computers, equipment and software 3 to 9 years Furniture and fixtures 5 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of the estimated lease term or 10 years Buildings and building improvements 10 to 40 years When assets are retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from their respective accounts and any loss on such retirement is reflected in operating expenses. Capitalized Software Costs The Company capitalizes costs related to its enterprise cloud computing services and certain projects for internal use incurred during the application development stage. Costs related to preliminary project activities and post implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Internal-use software is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which is generally three to five years . Management evaluates the useful lives of these assets on an annual basis and tests for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. Intangible Assets Acquired through Business Combinations Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Each period, the Company evaluates the estimated remaining useful life of its intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. Management tests for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. Impairment Assessment The Company evaluates intangible assets and long-lived assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. This includes but is not limited to significant adverse changes in business climate, market conditions, or other events that indicate an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of each asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the undiscounted cash flows used in the test for recoverability are less than the carrying amount of these assets, the carrying amount of such assets is reduced to fair value. The Company evaluates and tests the recoverability of its goodwill for impairment at least annually during its fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more often if and when circumstances indicate that goodwill may not be recoverable. There were no material impairments of intangible assets, long-lived assets or goodwill during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Business Combinations The Company uses its best estimates and assumptions to assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. The Companys estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, the Company may record adjustments to the fair value of these tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. In addition, uncertain tax positions, tax-related valuation allowances and pre-acquisition contingencies are initially recorded in connection with a business combination as of the acquisition date. The Company continues to collect information and reevaluates these estimates and assumptions quarterly and records any adjustments to the Companys preliminary estimates to goodwill provided that the Company is within the measurement period. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Companys condensed consolidated statement of operations. In the event the Company acquires an entity with which the Company has a preexisting relationship, the Company will generally recognize a gain or loss to settle that relationship as of the acquisition date within operating income on the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In the event that the Company acquires an entity in which the Company previously held a strategic investment, the difference between the fair value of the shares as of the date of the acquisition and the carrying value of the strategic investment is recorded as a gain or loss and recorded within net gains (or losses) on strategic investments in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. 14 Table of Contents Leases The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception and classifies its leases at commencement. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets and current and noncurrent operating lease liabilities on the Companys condensed consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and other noncurrent liabilities on the Companys condensed consolidated balance sheets. ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Lease ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. The lease ROU asset is reduced for tenant incentives. As the Companys leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, the net present value of future minimum lease payments is determined using the Companys incremental borrowing rate. The Company's incremental borrowing rate is an estimate of the interest rate the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, in an economic environment where the leased asset is located. The Companys lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option. The Company reassesses the lease term if and when a significant event or change in circumstances occurs within the control of the Company, such as construction of significant leasehold improvements that are expected to have economic value when the option becomes exercisable. Lease expenses for minimum lease payments for operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Amortization expense of the ROU asset for finance leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and interest expense for finance leases is recognized based on the incremental borrowing rate. The Company has lease agreements which contain both lease and non-lease components, which it has elected to combine for all asset classes. In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities for leases with a term of 12 months or less for any asset classes. On the lease commencement date the Company establishes assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are amortized over the lease term to operating expense. The Company additionally has entered into subleases for unoccupied leased office space. Any impairments to the ROU asset, leasehold improvements or other assets as a result of a sublease are recognized in the period the sublease is executed and recorded as an operating expense. Similar to other long-lived assets, management tests ROU assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. For leased assets, such circumstances would include subleases which do not fully recover the costs of the associated lease. Stock-Based Expense Stock-based expenses related to stock options are measured based on grant date at fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and restricted stock awards based on grant date at fair value using the closing stock price. The Company recognizes stock-based expenses related to stock options and restricted stock awards on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period of the awards, which is generally the vesting term of four years . Stock-based expenses related to the Companys Amended and Restated 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP or 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan) are measured based on grant date at fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company recognizes stock-based expenses related to shares issued pursuant to the 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan on a straight-line basis over the offering period, which is 12 months. The ESPP allows employees to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at a 15 percent discount from the lower of the Companys stock price on (i) the first day of the offering period or on (ii) the last day of the purchase period and also allows employees to reduce their percentage election once during a six month purchase period (December 15 and June 15 of each fiscal year), but not increase that election until the next one-year offering period. The ESPP also includes a re-set provision for the purchase price if the stock price on the purchase date is less than the stock price on the offering date. Stock-based expenses related to performance share grants, which are awarded to executive officers and other members of senior management, are measured based on grant date at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model and expensed on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the service period of the awards, which is generally the vesting term of three years . The Company, at times, grants unvested restricted shares to employee stockholders of certain acquired companies in lieu of cash consideration. These awards are generally subject to continued post-acquisition employment. Therefore, the Company accounts for them as post-acquisition stock-based expense. The Company recognizes stock-based expense equal to the grant date fair value of the restricted stock awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the awards, which is generally four years . 15 Table of Contents Income Taxes The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax laws is recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in the period that includes the enactment date. The Companys tax positions are subject to income tax audits by multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the world. The Company recognizes the tax benefit of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination by the taxing authority, solely based on its technical merits. The tax benefit recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit which is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement with the taxing authority. The Company recognizes interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the income tax provision. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not expected to be realized based on the weighting of positive and negative evidence. Future realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gain) within the carryback or carryforward periods available under the applicable tax law. The Company regularly reviews the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. The Companys judgments regarding future profitability may change due to many factors, including future market conditions and the ability to successfully execute its business plans. Should there be a change in the ability to recover deferred tax assets, the tax provision would increase or decrease in the period in which the assessment is changed. Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency of the Companys major foreign subsidiaries is generally the local currency. Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are recorded as a separate component on the condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in other income in the condensed consolidated statement of operations for the period. All assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate during the period. Equity transactions are translated using historical exchange rates. Warranties and Indemnification The Companys enterprise cloud computing services are typically warranted to perform in a manner consistent with general industry standards that are reasonably applicable and materially in accordance with the Companys online help documentation under normal use and circumstances. The Companys arrangements generally include certain provisions for indemnifying customers against liabilities if its products or services infringe a third partys intellectual property rights. To date, the Company has not incurred any material costs as a result of such obligations and has not accrued any material liabilities related to such obligations in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company has also agreed to indemnify its directors and executive officers for costs associated with any fees, expenses, judgments, fines and settlement amounts incurred by any of these persons in any action or proceeding to which any of those persons is, or is threatened to be, made a party by reason of the persons service as a director or officer, including any action by the Company, arising out of that persons services as the Companys director or officer or that persons services provided to any other company or enterprise at the Companys request. The Company maintains director and officer insurance coverage that would generally enable the Company to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. The Company may also be subject to indemnification obligations by law with respect to the actions of its employees under certain circumstances and in certain jurisdictions. New Accounting Pronouncement Adopted in Fiscal 2021 ASU 2016-13 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-13, "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments," which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost, and includes the Company's accounts receivable, certain financial instruments and contract assets. ASU 2016-13 replaces the prior incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss methodology, which results in more timely recognition of credit losses. Effective on February 1, 2020, the Company adopted the provisions and expanded disclosure requirements described in ASU 2016-13. The adoption of ASU 2016-13 was not material to the consolidated financial statements. 16 Table of Contents Accounting Pronouncement Pending Adoption In December 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes, which modifies and eliminates certain exceptions to the general principles of ASC 740, Income taxes. The new standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020, and early adoption is permitted. ASU 2019-12 will be effective for fiscal 2022, including interim periods within that reporting period. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2019-12 to be material. 2. Revenues Disaggregation of Revenue Subscription and Support Revenue by the Company's service offerings Subscription and support revenues consisted of the following (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Sales $ 1,311 $ 1,168 $ 3,835 $ 3,371 Service 1,376 1,140 3,931 3,247 Platform and Other 1,594 1,287 4,470 3,041 Marketing and Commerce 804 644 2,264 1,821 $ 5,085 $ 4,239 $ 14,500 $ 11,480 Total Revenue by Geographic Locations Revenues by geographical region consisted of the following (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Americas $ 3,758 $ 3,216 $ 10,724 $ 8,649 Europe 1,149 880 3,253 2,421 Asia Pacific 512 417 1,458 1,177 $ 5,419 $ 4,513 $ 15,435 $ 12,247 Revenues by geography are determined based on the region of the Company's contracting entity, which may be different than the region of the customer. Americas revenue attributed to the United States was approximately 96 percent during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. No other country represented more than ten percent of total revenue during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Contract Balances Contract Assets As described in Note 1, subscription and support revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each contract. License revenue is recognized as the licenses are delivered. The Company records a contract asset when revenue recognized on a contract exceeds the billings. The Company's standard billing terms are annual in advance. Contract assets were $ 574 million as of October 31, 2020 as compared to $ 449 million as of January 31, 2020, and are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Impairments of contract assets were immaterial during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue represents amounts that have been invoiced in advance of revenue recognition and is recognized as revenue when transfer of control to customers has occurred or services have been provided. The unearned revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. The Company generally invoices customers in annual installments. The unearned revenue balance is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing, dollar size and new business linearity within the quarter. 17 Table of Contents The change in unearned revenue was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Unearned revenue, beginning of period $ 8,711 $ 7,142 $ 10,662 $ 8,564 Billings and other (1) 4,561 3,886 12,498 9,996 Contribution from contract asset 66 61 125 112 Revenue recognized ratably over time ( 4,911 ) ( 4,047 ) ( 14,021 ) ( 11,270 ) Revenue recognized over time as delivered ( 192 ) ( 184 ) ( 573 ) ( 530 ) Revenue recognized at a point in time ( 316 ) ( 282 ) ( 841 ) ( 447 ) Unearned revenue from business combinations 4 282 73 433 Unearned revenue, end of period $ 7,923 $ 6,858 $ 7,923 $ 6,858 (1) Other includes, for example, the impact of foreign currency translation. Revenue recognized ratably over time is generally billed in advance and includes Cloud Services, the related support and advisory services. The majority of revenue recognized for these services is from the beginning of period unearned revenue balance. Revenue recognized over time as delivered includes professional services billed on a time and materials basis, fixed fee professional services and training classes that are primarily billed, delivered and recognized within the same reporting period. Revenue recognized at a point in time substantially consists of on-premises software licenses. Remaining Performance Obligation Remaining performance obligation represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized and includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligation is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the timing of renewals, the timing of software license deliveries, average contract terms and foreign currency exchange rates. Remaining performance obligation is also impacted by acquisitions. Unbilled portions of the remaining performance obligation denominated in foreign currencies are revalued each period based on the period end exchange rates. Unbilled portions of the remaining performance obligation are subject to future economic risks including bankruptcies, regulatory changes and other market factors. The Company excludes amounts related to performance obligations that are billed and recognized as they are delivered. This primarily consists of professional services contracts that are on a time-and-materials basis. The majority of the Company's noncurrent remaining performance obligation is expected to be recognized in the next 13 to 36 months. Remaining performance obligation consisted of the following (in billions): Current Noncurrent Total As of October 31, 2020 $ 15.3 $ 15.0 $ 30.3 As of January 31, 2020 $ 15.0 $ 15.8 $ 30.8 18 Table of Contents 3. Investments Marketable Securities At October 31, 2020, marketable securities consisted of the following (in millions): Investments classified as Marketable Securities Amortized Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Corporate notes and obligations $ 3,236 $ 19 $ ( 2 ) $ 3,253 U.S. treasury securities 162 2 0 164 Mortgage backed obligations 404 4 ( 1 ) 407 Asset backed securities 1,137 7 ( 1 ) 1,143 Municipal securities 312 1 0 313 Foreign government obligations 88 1 0 89 U.S. agency obligations 101 0 0 101 Covered bonds 297 1 0 298 Total marketable securities $ 5,737 $ 35 $ ( 4 ) $ 5,768 At January 31, 2020, marketable securities consisted of the following (in millions): Investments classified as Marketable Securities Amortized Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Corporate notes and obligations $ 2,199 $ 9 $ ( 1 ) $ 2,207 U.S. treasury securities 182 1 0 183 Mortgage backed obligations 225 1 0 226 Asset backed securities 779 2 0 781 Municipal securities 157 1 0 158 Foreign government obligations 69 0 0 69 U.S. agency obligations 12 0 0 12 Time deposits 1 0 0 1 Covered bonds 165 0 0 165 Total marketable securities $ 3,789 $ 14 $ ( 1 ) $ 3,802 The contractual maturities of the investments classified as marketable securities are as follows (in millions): As of October 31, 2020 January 31, 2020 Due within 1 year $ 2,187 $ 1,332 Due in 1 year through 5 years 3,575 2,466 Due in 5 years through 10 years 6 4 $ 5,768 $ 3,802 As of October 31, 2020, the following marketable securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position (in millions): Less than 12 Months 12 Months or Greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Corporate notes and obligations $ 647 $ ( 2 ) $ 0 $ 0 $ 647 $ ( 2 ) Mortgage backed obligations 151 ( 1 ) 0 0 151 ( 1 ) Asset backed securities 168 ( 1 ) 0 0 168 ( 1 ) $ 966 $ ( 4 ) $ 0 $ 0 $ 966 $ ( 4 ) The unrealized losses for each of the marketable securities were less than $ 1 million. The Company does not believe any of the unrealized losses represent an indication of credit loss based on its evaluation of available evidence as of October 31, 2020. The Company does not intend to sell its investments in a loss position and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of the investments amortized basis. No credit allowances were recorded as of October 31, 2020. The Company expects to receive the full principal and interest on all of these marketable securities. 19 Table of Contents Investment Income Investment income consists of interest income, realized gains and realized losses on the Companys cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. The components of investment income are presented below (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Interest income $ 17 $ 32 $ 63 $ 89 Realized gains 4 0 6 1 Realized losses ( 2 ) 0 ( 3 ) ( 1 ) Investment income $ 19 $ 32 $ 66 $ 89 Strategic Investments Strategic investments by form and measurement category as of October 31, 2020 were as follows (in millions): Measurement Category Fair Value Measurement Alternative Other Total Equity securities $ 2,261 $ 1,507 $ 111 $ 3,879 Debt securities 0 0 48 48 Total strategic investments $ 2,261 $ 1,507 $ 159 $ 3,927 Strategic investments by form and measurement category as of January 31, 2020 were as follows (in millions): Measurement Category Fair Value Measurement Alternative Other Total Equity securities $ 370 $ 1,502 $ 40 $ 1,912 Debt securities 0 0 51 51 Total strategic investments $ 370 $ 1,502 $ 91 $ 1,963 Measurement Alternative Adjustments The components of privately held equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative included in the table above are presented below (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Carrying amount, beginning of period $ 1,537 $ 917 $ 1,502 $ 785 Adjustments related to privately held equity securities: Net additions (1) ( 55 ) 322 1 333 Upward adjustments 31 81 86 253 Impairments and downward adjustments ( 6 ) ( 3 ) ( 82 ) ( 54 ) Carrying amount, end of period $ 1,507 $ 1,317 $ 1,507 $ 1,317 (1) Net additions include additions from purchases and reductions due to exits of securities and reclassifications due to changes to capital structure. In February 2020, the Company made a strategic investment of $ 150 million in cash for preferred shares of a technology company in a preferred stock financing. The investment was accounted for using the measurement alternative. In June 2020, the Company made a strategic investment of $ 100 million in cash for preferred shares of a different technology company in a preferred stock financing. The investment was accounted for using the measurement alternative. In July 2020, one of the Companys investments, which was previously accounted for under the measurement alternative, completed its initial public offering (IPO), resulting in a change of accounting methodology to fair value and the recognition of an unrealized loss of $ 92 million for the three months ended October 31, 2020 and an unrealized gain of $ 525 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2020, which is reflected in the table below. The investment is subject to a lock-up agreement in which the Companys ability to sell is restricted until January 2021. As of October 31, 2020, the Companys carrying value of this investment was $ 759 million. 20 Table of Contents In September 2020, one of the Companys investments, which was previously accounted for under the measurement alternative, completed its IPO which resulted in a change of accounting methodology to fair value. Concurrent with the IPO, the Company invested an additional $ 250 million. As of October 31, 2020, the Company recognized an unrealized gain of $ 1.1 billion on this investment, which is reflected in the table below. The investment concurrent with the IPO is subject to a lock-up agreement in which the Companys ability to sell is restricted until September 2021, while the remainder of the Companys investment is subject to a lock-up agreement until March 2021. As of October 31, 2020, the Companys carrying value of this investment was $ 1.5 billion. Since the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01), Financial Instrument-Overall (Subtopic 825-10) on February 1, 2018, cumulative impairments and downward adjustments were $ 184 million and cumulative upward adjustments were $ 540 million through October 31, 2020. Gains on strategic investments, net The components of gains and losses on strategic investments are presented below (in millions): 3 Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Unrealized gains (losses) recognized on publicly traded equity securities, net $ 997 $ ( 84 ) $ 1,620 $ 132 Unrealized gains recognized on privately held equity securities, net 25 77 1 199 Realized gains on sales of equity securities, net 11 14 299 76 Gains (losses) on debt securities, net 3 ( 1 ) ( 10 ) ( 11 ) Gains on strategic investments, net $ 1,036 $ 6 $ 1,910 $ 396 Realized gains on sales of equity securities, net reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the equity security at the beginning of the period or the purchase date, if later. The cumulative net realized gain, measured as the sale price less the initial purchase price, for securities that were exited during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 was $ 18 million and $ 545 million, respectively. Cumulative net realized gains for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 includes approximately $ 147 million related to the Companys acquisition of Vlocity in June 2020. See Note 6 Business Combinations for additional details on the acquisition. Cumulative net realized gains for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 also includes gains related to the Companys sales of two of its publicly traded investments resulting in a realized gain of $ 222 million, and a cumulative net gain of $ 314 million. Net unrealized gains recognized in the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 for strategic investments still held as of October 31, 2020 were $ 1.0 billion and $ 1.6 billion, respectively. These include approximately $ 8 million and $ 99 million of impairments on its privately held equity and debt securities during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, respectively. 4. Derivatives Details on outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts are presented below (in millions): As of October 31, 2020 January 31, 2020 Notional amount of foreign currency derivative contracts $ 4,826 $ 5,543 The fair value of the Companys outstanding derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments are summarized below (in millions): As of Balance Sheet Location October 31, 2020 January 31, 2020 Derivative Assets Foreign currency derivative contracts Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ 24 $ 28 Derivative Liabilities Foreign currency derivative contracts Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities $ 41 $ 24 21 Table of Contents Gains (losses) on derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments recorded in other income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations are summarized below (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Foreign currency derivative contracts $ 4 $ ( 34 ) $ ( 24 ) $ ( 10 ) 5. Fair Value Measurement The Company uses a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring fair value: Level 1. Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2. Significant other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace. Level 3. Significant unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity. All of the Companys cash equivalents, marketable securities and foreign currency derivative contracts are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 because the Companys cash equivalents, marketable securities and foreign currency derivative contracts are valued using quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing observable market inputs. The following table presents information about the Companys assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as of October 31, 2020 and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation (in millions): Description Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Balance as of October 31, 2020 Cash equivalents (1): Time deposits $ 0 $ 1,055 $ 0 $ 1,055 Money market mutual funds 1,120 0 0 1,120 Marketable securities: Corporate notes and obligations 0 3,253 0 3,253 U.S. treasury securities 0 164 0 164 Mortgage backed obligations 0 407 0 407 Asset backed securities 0 1,143 0 1,143 Municipal securities 0 313 0 313 Foreign government obligations 0 89 0 89 U.S. agency obligations 0 101 0 101 Covered bonds 0 298 0 298 Strategic investments: Publicly held equity securities 2,261 0 0 2,261 Foreign currency derivative contracts (2) 0 24 0 24 Total assets $ 3,381 $ 6,847 $ 0 $ 10,228 Liabilities: Foreign currency derivative contracts (3) 0 41 0 41 Total liabilities $ 0 $ 41 $ 0 $ 41 ___________ (1) Included in cash and cash equivalents in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2020, in addition to $ 1.5 billion of cash. (2) Included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2020. (3) Included in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2020. 22 Table of Contents The following table presents information about the Companys assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as of January 31, 2020 and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation (in millions): Description Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Balance as of January 31, 2020 Cash equivalents (1): Time deposits $ 0 $ 746 $ 0 $ 746 Money market mutual funds 1,293 0 0 1,293 Marketable securities: Corporate notes and obligations 0 2,207 0 2,207 U.S. treasury securities 0 183 0 183 Mortgage backed obligations 0 226 0 226 Asset backed securities 0 781 0 781 Municipal securities 0 158 0 158 Foreign government obligations 0 69 0 69 U.S. agency obligations 0 12 0 12 Time deposits 0 1 0 1 Covered bonds 0 165 0 165 Strategic investments: Publicly held equity securities 370 0 0 370 Foreign currency derivative contracts (2) 0 28 0 28 Total assets $ 1,663 $ 4,576 $ 0 $ 6,239 Liabilities: Foreign currency derivative contracts (3) 0 24 0 24 Total liabilities $ 0 $ 24 $ 0 $ 24 ______________ (1) Included in cash and cash equivalents in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet in addition to $ 2.1 billion of cash. (2) Included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. (3) Included in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. Strategic investments measured and recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis The Company's privately held debt and equity securities and equity method investments are recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The estimation of fair value for these investments requires the use of significant unobservable inputs, and as a result, the Company classifies these assets as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. For example, the Company's privately held equity securities that have been remeasured are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because the value is based on valuation methods using the observable transaction price and other unobservable inputs including the volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities the Company holds. The Company's privately held debt and equity securities and equity method investments amounted to $ 1.7 billion as of October 31, 2020 and $ 1.6 billion as of January 31, 2020. 6. Business Combinations Vlocity In June 2020, the Company acquired all outstanding stock of Vlocity, Inc. ("Vlocity"), a leading provider of industry-specific cloud and mobile software. The Company has included the financial results of Vlocity in the condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, which were not material to date. The transaction costs associated with its acquisition were immaterial. The acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred for Vlocity was approximately $ 1.4 billion, which consisted of the following (in millions): 23 Table of Contents Fair Value Cash $ 1,166 Fair value of stock options and restricted stock awards assumed 6 Fair value of pre-existing relationship 208 Total $ 1,380 The fair value of the stock options assumed by the Company was determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The share conversion ratio of 0.05817 was applied to convert Vlocity's outstanding equity awards for Vlocity's common stock into equity awards for shares of the Company's common stock. The following table summarizes the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition (in millions): Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ 12 Accounts receivable 22 Goodwill 1,024 Intangible assets 473 Other assets 15 Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and noncurrent ( 35 ) Unearned revenue ( 64 ) Deferred tax liability ( 67 ) Net assets acquired $ 1,380 The excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, which is primarily attributed to the assembled workforce and expanded market opportunities, for which there is no basis for U.S. income tax purposes. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on managements estimates and assumptions and may be subject to change as additional information is received. The primary areas that remain preliminary relate to the fair values of intangible assets acquired, certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, legal and other contingencies as of the acquisition date, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. The Company expects to finalize the valuation as soon as practicable, but not later than one year from the acquisition date. The following table sets forth the components of identifiable intangible assets acquired and their estimated useful lives as of the date of acquisition (in millions): Fair Value Useful Life Developed technology $ 174 4 years Customer relationships 299 8 years Total intangible assets subject to amortization $ 473 Developed technology represents the fair value of Vlocitys industry-specific cloud and mobile software. Customer relationships represent the fair values of the underlying relationships with Vlocity customers. The Company assumed unvested options with a fair value of $ 139 million. Of the total consideration, $ 6 million was allocated to the purchase consideration and $ 133 million was allocated to future services and will be expensed over the remaining service periods on a straight-line basis. The Company had a noncontrolling equity investment in Vlocity valued at $ 167 million prior to the acquisition. The Company recognized a gain of approximately $ 41 million as a result of remeasuring its prior equity interest in Vlocity held before the business combination. The gain is included in gains on strategic investments, net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Evergage In February 2020, the Company acquired all outstanding stock of Evergage Inc. ("Evergage"), for consideration consisting of cash and equity awards assumed. Evergage is a cloud-based real-time personalization and customer data platform. The acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred for Evergage was approximately $ 100 million, which consisted of cash and the fair value of stock options and restricted stock awards assumed. The Company recorded approximately $ 25 million for developed technology and customer relationships with estimated useful lives of three to five years . The Company recorded approximately $ 74 million of goodwill which is primarily attributed to the assembled workforce and 24 Table of Contents expanded market opportunities from integrating Evergage's technology with the Company's other offerings. For the goodwill balance there is no basis for U.S. income tax purposes. The fair values assigned to tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on managements estimates and assumptions and may be subject to change as additional information is received and certain tax returns are finalized. The Company expects to finalize the valuation as soon as practicable, but not later than one year from the acquisition date. The Company has included the financial results of Evergage in the condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, which were not material. The transaction costs associated with the acquisition were not material. 7. Intangible Assets Acquired Through Business Combinations and Goodwill Intangible assets acquired through business combinations Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are as follows (in millions): Intangible Assets, Gross Accumulated Amortization Intangible Assets, Net Weighted Average Remaining Useful Life (Years) January 31, 2020 Additions and retirements, net October 31, 2020 January 31, 2020 Expense and retirements, net October 31, 2020 January 31, 2020 October 31, 2020 October 31, 2020 Acquired developed technology $ 3,598 $ 190 $ 3,788 $ ( 1,249 ) $ ( 494 ) $ ( 1,743 ) $ 2,349 $ 2,045 3.4 Customer relationships 3,252 316 3,568 ( 888 ) ( 331 ) ( 1,219 ) 2,364 2,349 7.0 Other (1) 72 6 78 ( 61 ) ( 13 ) ( 74 ) 11 4 3.6 Total $ 6,922 $ 512 $ 7,434 $ ( 2,198 ) $ ( 838 ) $ ( 3,036 ) $ 4,724 $ 4,398 5.3 (1) Included in other are in-place leases, trade names, trademarks and territory rights. Amortization of intangible assets resulting from business combinations for the three months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 was $ 283 million and $ 266 million, respectively, and for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 was $ 838 million and $ 522 million, respectively. The expected future amortization expense for intangible assets as of October 31, 2020 is as follows (in millions): Fiscal Period: Remaining three months of fiscal 2021 $ 284 Fiscal 2022 1,078 Fiscal 2023 923 Fiscal 2024 835 Fiscal 2025 568 Thereafter 710 Total amortization expense $ 4,398 Customer contract assets acquired through business combinations Customer contract assets resulting from business combinations reflects the fair value of future billings of amounts that are contractually committed by acquired companies' existing customers as of the acquisition date. Customer contract assets are amortized over the corresponding contract terms. Customer contract assets resulting from business combinations were $ 54 million and $ 93 million as of October 31, 2020 and January 31, 2020, respectively, and are included in other assets on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 25 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a business combination over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill amounts are not amortized, but are rather tested for impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter. The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill, which is generally not deductible for tax purposes, were as follows (in millions): Balance as of January 31, 2020 $ 25,134 Evergage 74 Vlocity 1,024 Other acquisitions and adjustments (1) 81 Balance as of October 31, 2020 $ 26,313 (1) Adjustments include measurement period adjustments for business combinations from the prior year and the effect of foreign currency translation. 8. Debt The carrying values of the Company's borrowings were as follows (in millions): Instrument Date of issuance Maturity date Effective interest rate for the three months ended October 31, 2020 October 31, 2020 January 31, 2020 2023 Senior Notes April 2018 April 2023 3.26 % $ 996 $ 995 2028 Senior Notes April 2018 April 2028 3.70 % 1,490 1,489 Loan assumed on 50 Fremont February 2015 June 2023 3.75 % 190 193 Total carrying value of debt 2,676 2,677 Less current portion of debt ( 4 ) ( 4 ) Total noncurrent debt $ 2,672 $ 2,673 Each of the Company's debt agreements requires it to maintain compliance with certain debt covenants, all of which the Company was in compliance with as of October 31, 2020. The total estimated fair value of the Company's 2023 and 2028 Senior Notes as of October 31, 2020 and January 31, 2020 was $ 2.8 billion and $ 2.7 billion, respectively. The fair value was determined based on the closing trading price per $ 100 of the 2023 and 2028 Senior Notes as of the last day of trading for the third quarter of fiscal 2021 and last day of trading for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, respectively, and is deemed a Level 2 liability within the fair value measurement framework. The expected future principal payments for all borrowings as of October 31, 2020 is as follows (in millions): Fiscal period: Remaining three months of fiscal 2021 $ 1 Fiscal 2022 4 Fiscal 2023 4 Fiscal 2024 1,182 Fiscal 2025 0 Thereafter 1,500 Total principal outstanding $ 2,691 Revolving Credit Facility In April 2018, the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement ("Revolving Loan Credit Agreement") with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, and certain other institutional lenders that provides for $ 1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (Credit Facility) that matures in April 2023. The Revolving Loan Credit Agreement amended and restated the Companys existing revolving credit facility dated July 2016. The Company may use the proceeds of future borrowings under the Credit Facility for refinancing other indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted acquisitions. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility as of October 31, 2020. The Company continues to pay a commitment fee on the available amount of the Credit Facility, which is included within other expense in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of operations. 26 Table of Contents Interest Expense on Debt The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized related to debt (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Contractual interest expense $ 24 $ 26 $ 72 $ 82 Amortization of debt issuance costs 1 1 3 3 $ 25 $ 27 $ 75 $ 85 9. Other Balance Sheet Accounts In March 2020, the Company purchased the property located at 450 Mission St. (450 Mission) in San Francisco, California for approximately $ 150 million, of which $ 110 million was allocated to land, $ 34 million to building, which is included in property and equipment, net and $ 6 million to in-place leases, which is included in intangible assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities as of October 31, 2020 included approximately $ 1.6 billion of accrued compensation as compared to $ 1.5 billion as of January 31, 2020. 10. Stockholders Equity The fair value of the Companys stock options and ESPP shares was estimated on the date of grant and the first day of the ESPP purchase period, respectively, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted-average fair value per share for stock options grants, excluding assumed awards, was $ 59.54 and $ 40.52 in the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, respectively compared to $ 35.31 and $ 39.65 in the three and nine months ended October 31, 2019, respectively. ESPP assumptions and the related fair value per share table are disclosed in the three month period in which there is ESPP activity, such as an ESPP purchase. The Company's ESPP allows for two purchases during the fiscal year, one during the second quarter and one during the fourth quarter. The estimated life of the ESPP will be based on the two purchase periods within each offering period. The weighted-average fair value per share for ESPP shares was $ 53.64 in the three months ended October 31, 2020. Stock option activity, excluding the ESPP for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 is as follows: Options Outstanding Outstanding Stock Options (in millions) Weighted- Average Exercise Price Aggregate Intrinsic Value (in millions) Balance as of January 31, 2020 27 $ 98.56 Options granted under all plans 8 145.30 Exercised ( 10 ) 79.77 Plan shares expired or canceled ( 1 ) 133.43 Balance as of October 31, 2020 24 $ 118.31 $ 2,765 Vested or expected to vest 22 $ 115.96 $ 2,611 Exercisable as of October 31, 2020 10 $ 82.86 $ 1,523 27 Table of Contents The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding as of October 31, 2020: Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Range of Exercise Prices Number Outstanding (in millions) Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life (Years) Weighted- Average Exercise Price Number of Shares (in millions) Weighted- Average Exercise Price $ 0.36 to $ 59.34 5 3.3 $ 39.88 4 $ 41.36 $ 59.64 to $ 98.90 3 3.2 78.09 3 78.28 $ 106.83 to $ 125.44 3 4.4 118.49 2 118.52 $ 142.33 to $ 148.95 2 5.7 146.82 0 146.43 $ 154.14 6 6.5 154.14 0 0.00 $ 155.20 to $ 249.67 5 5.5 165.84 1 161.50 24 4.9 $ 118.31 10 $ 82.86 Restricted stock activity for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 is as follows: Restricted Stock Outstanding Outstanding (in millions) Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Aggregate Intrinsic Value (in millions) Balance as of January 31, 2020 28 $ 140.14 Granted - restricted stock units and awards 11 163.01 Granted - performance-based stock units 1 154.14 Canceled ( 2 ) 142.18 Vested and converted to shares ( 10 ) 131.96 Balance as of October 31, 2020 28 $ 152.31 $ 6,553 Expected to vest 25 $ 5,725 During the nine months ended October 31, 2020 the Company recognized stock-based expense related to its equity plans for employees and non-employee directors of $ 1.6 billion. The aggregate stock compensation remaining to be recognized as of October 31, 2020 is as follows (in millions): Fiscal Period: Remaining three months of fiscal 2021 $ 526 Fiscal 2022 1,752 Fiscal 2023 1,283 Fiscal 2024 718 Fiscal 2025 138 Total stock compensation $ 4,417 The expected amortization reflects only outstanding stock awards as of October 31, 2020 and assumes no forfeiture activity. The aggregate stock compensation remaining to be recognized to costs and expenses will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 3 years. Shares reserved and available for future issuance as of October 31, 2020 and January 31, 2020 were 143 million shares and 133 million shares, respectively. 11. Income Taxes Effective Tax Rate The Company computes its year-to-date provision for income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to year-to-date pretax income or loss and adjusts the provision for discrete tax items recorded in the period. For the nine months ended October 31, 2020, the Company reported a tax benefit of $ 1.7 billion on a pretax income of $ 2.1 billion, which resulted in a negative effective tax rate of 78 percent. The Companys effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 21 percent 28 Table of Contents primarily due to a one-time discrete tax benefit of $ 2.0 billion recorded during the three months ended July 31, 2020. The Company changed its international corporate structure, which included the consolidation of certain intangible property in Ireland resulting in a net tax benefit related to foreign deferred tax assets. The Company believes that it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized in Ireland. For the nine months ended October 31, 2019, the Company reported a tax provision of $ 336 million on a pretax income of $ 710 million, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 47 percent. The Company's effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 21 percent primarily due to profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States subject to tax rates greater than 21 percent and certain effects from acquisitions, offset by excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Unrecognized Tax Benefits and Other Considerations The Company records liabilities related to its uncertain tax positions. Tax positions for the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to income tax audits by multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the world. Certain prior year tax returns are currently being examined by various taxing authorities in countries including the United States, France, Germany and Japan. The Company believes that it has provided adequate reserves for its income tax uncertainties in all open tax years. As the outcome of the tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty, if any issues arising in the Company's tax audits progress in a manner inconsistent with management's expectations, the Company could adjust its provision for income taxes in the future. In addition, the Company anticipates it is reasonably possible that a decrease of its unrecognized tax benefits up to approximately $ 6 million may occur in the next 12 months, as the applicable statutes of limitations lapse, ongoing examinations are completed, or tax positions meet the conditions of being effectively settled. 12. Net Income (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the fiscal period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by giving effect to all potential weighted average dilutive common stock, including options and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of outstanding awards and convertible securities is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. A reconciliation of the denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows (in millions): 3 Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Numerator: Net income (loss) $ 1,081 $ ( 109 ) $ 3,805 $ 374 Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding for basic earnings per share 911 879 905 809 Dilutive effect of employee stock awards 28 0 21 20 Adjusted weighted-average shares outstanding and assumed conversions for diluted earnings (loss) per share 939 879 926 829 The weighted-average number of shares outstanding used in the computation of diluted earnings per share does not include the effect of the following potentially outstanding common stock. The effects of these potentially outstanding shares were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been anti-dilutive (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Employee stock awards 0 28 8 6 13. Leases and Other Commitments Leases The Company has operating leases for corporate offices, data centers, and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates. The leases have remaining terms of one year to 22 years, some of which include options to extend for up to five years , and some of which include options to terminate within one year . Total operating lease costs were $ 278 million and $ 230 million for the three months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively and $ 815 million and $ 653 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 29 Table of Contents For the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, cash payments for operating leases were $ 222 million and $ 672 million, respectively. New leases commenced during the period resulted in an increase to ROU assets and corresponding operating lease liabilities of $ 196 million and $ 562 million during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, respectively. As of October 31, 2020, for operating leases, the weighted-average remaining lease term is six years , and the weighted-average discount rate is 2.5 percent. As of October 31, 2020, for finance leases, the weighted-average remaining lease term is 18 years, and the weighted-average discount rate is 4.2 percent. As of October 31, 2020, the maturities of lease liabilities under non-cancelable operating and finance leases were as follows (in millions): Operating Leases Finance Leases Fiscal Period: Remaining three months of fiscal 2021 $ 222 $ 8 Fiscal 2022 784 34 Fiscal 2023 605 35 Fiscal 2024 434 35 Fiscal 2025 327 31 Thereafter 1,111 410 Total minimum lease payments 3,483 553 Less: Imputed interest ( 315 ) ( 174 ) Total $ 3,168 $ 379 Operating lease amounts above do not include sublease income. The Company has entered into various sublease agreements with third parties. Under these agreements, the Company expects to receive sublease income of approximately $ 175 million in the next five years and $ 39 million thereafter. The Companys lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. These options are reflected in the Company's future contractual obligations when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise that option. As of October 31, 2020, the Company has additional operating leases that have not yet commenced totaling $ 1.9 billion and therefore not reflected on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and tables above. These operating leases include agreements for office facilities to be constructed. These operating leases will commence between fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 2025 with lease terms of 3 to 18 years. The total operating lease commitment balance, including leases not yet commenced, of $ 5.4 billion, includes approximately $ 4.8 billion related to facilities space. The remaining commitment amount is primarily related to equipment. Letters of Credit As of October 31, 2020, the Company had a total of $ 102 million in letters of credit outstanding substantially in favor of certain landlords for office space. These letters of credit renew annually and expire at various dates through 2033. 14. Legal Proceedings and Claims In the ordinary course of business, the Company is or may be involved in various legal or regulatory proceedings, claims or purported class actions related to alleged infringement of third-party patents and other intellectual property rights, commercial, corporate and securities, labor and employment, wage and hour and other claims. The Company has been, and may in the future be put on notice or sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, including patent infringement. In general, the resolution of a legal matter could prevent the Company from offering its service to others, could be material to the Companys financial condition or cash flows, or both, or could otherwise adversely affect the Companys operating results. The Company makes a provision for a liability relating to legal matters when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, estimated settlements, legal rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter. The outcomes of legal proceedings and other contingencies are, however, inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties. At this time, the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the amount or range of possible losses in excess of any amounts accrued, including losses that could arise as a result of application of non-monetary remedies, with respect to the contingencies it faces, and the Companys estimates may not prove to be accurate. 30 Table of Contents In managements opinion, resolution of all current matters is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys condensed consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, depending on the nature and timing of any such dispute or other contingency, an unfavorable resolution of a matter could materially affect the Companys current or future results of operations or cash flows, or both, in a particular quarter. Tableau Litigation In July and August 2017, two substantially similar securities class action complaints were filed against Tableau and two of its now former executive officers. The first complaint was filed in the U.S. District for the Southern District of New York (the Scheufele Action). The second complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington and was voluntarily dismissed on October 17, 2017. In December 2017, the lead plaintiff in the Scheufele Action filed an amended complaint, which alleged that between February 5, 2015 and February 4, 2016, Tableau and certain of its executive officers violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, in connection with statements regarding Tableaus business and operations by allegedly failing to disclose, among other things, that product launches and software upgrades by competitors were negatively impacting Tableaus competitive position and profitability. The amended complaint sought unspecified damages, interest, attorneys fees and other costs. In February 2018, the lead plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (the "SAC"), which contains substantially similar allegations as the amended complaint, and added as defendants two more of Tableaus now former executive officers and directors. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the SAC in March 2018, which was denied in February 2019. Defendants filed an answer to the SAC in March 2019, and subsequently amended their answer in April 2019. On January 15, 2020, the court granted lead plaintiffs motion for class certification. The parties have completed fact and expert discovery. On October 1, 2020, the Court entered an order staying the deadline for summary judgment motions to allow the parties to complete additional discovery. The court has not yet set a trial date. In August 2018, Tableau was named as a nominal defendant in a purported shareholder derivative action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, allegedly on behalf of and for the benefit of Tableau, against certain of its now former directors and officers. The derivative action arises out of many of the factual allegations at issue in the Scheufele Action, and generally alleges that the individual defendants breached fiduciary duties owed to Tableau. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and equitable relief, attorneys' fees, costs and expenses. In April 2020, the same purported stockholder who filed the 2018 derivative action, who had previously been a shareholder of Tableau and acquired shares of Salesforce as a result of the acquisition of Tableau by Salesforce in August 2019, filed a double derivative action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, allegedly on behalf of and for the benefit of Salesforce and Tableau, against certain of Tableaus now former directors and officers. The double derivative complaint adds Salesforce as an additional nominal defendant, but otherwise names the same individual defendants, generally alleges the same purported wrongdoing, and seeks the same relief as the 2018 derivative action. On April 24, 2020, the court consolidated the 2018 and 2020 derivative actions. On June 5, 2020, the parties stipulated, and on June 12, 2020, the court entered an order, vacating the defendants deadline to respond to the April 2020 complaint and requiring the plaintiff to file an amended complaint on or before August 11, 2020. On August 11, 2020, the plaintiff filed its amended complaint. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on September 25, 2020. The plaintiff opposed the Companys motion to dismiss on November 9, 2020. The Companys reply brief in support of the motion to dismiss is due on December 9, 2020. The court has not yet set a hearing on the Companys motion to dismiss. 15. Related-Party Transactions In January 1999, the Salesforce Foundation (the Foundation) was chartered on an idea of leveraging the Companys people, technology and resources to help improve communities around the world. The Company calls this integrated philanthropic approach the 1-1-1 model. The Companys Chair is the chair of the Foundation and holds one of the three Foundation board seats. The Company does not control the Foundations activities, and accordingly, the Company does not consolidate the Foundations statement of activities with its financial results. Since the Foundations inception, the Company has provided at no charge certain resources to the Foundation including general administrative support. The value of these resources to the Foundation has not been material. As a result of the fiscal 2020 business combination with Salesforce.org, which was a related party, the Company agreed to use its best efforts to make charitable cash commitments of up to $ 5 million quarterly to the Foundation for ten years beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. 16. Subsequent Events Slack Technologies, Inc. In December 2020, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Slack Technologies, Inc. (Slack), a leading channel-based messaging platform. Under the terms of the agreement, Slack shareholders will receive $ 26.79 in cash 31 Table of Contents and 0.0776 shares of Salesforce common stock for each outstanding Slack share of common stock. The transaction represents an enterprise value of approximately $ 27.7 billion based on the closing price of the Companys common stock on November 30, 2020. The agreement also provides for the Companys assumption of outstanding equity awards held by Slack employees. The Company expects to fund the cash portion of the consideration with a combination of new debt and cash on the Companys balance sheet. In connection with its entry into the definitive agreement for the acquisition, the Company has obtained a commitment for a $ 10 billion 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility, subject to customary conditions. The acquisition is anticipated to close in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of Slack stockholder approval and the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and receipt of other approvals, consents or clearances under specified antitrust and foreign investment laws. Acumen Solutions, Inc. In November 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire Acumen Solutions, Inc. (Acumen) a professional services firm that provides innovative and critical solutions to clients using the Companys service offerings and other advanced cloud technologies. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will acquire Acumen for approximately $ 570 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. The acquisition is expected to close in the first half of fiscal 2022, subject to customary closing conditions. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, assumes, may, should, could, would, foresees, forecasts, predicts, targets, commitments, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which may consist of, among other things, trend analyses and statements regarding future events, future financial performance, anticipated growth, industry prospects and the anticipated impact on our business of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and forecasts, as well as the beliefs and assumptions of our management, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including: the impact of, and actions we may take in response to, the COVID-19 pandemic, related public health measures and resulting economic downturn and market volatility; our ability to maintain service performance and security levels meeting the expectations of our customers, and the resources and costs required to avoid unanticipated downtime and prevent, detect and remediate performance degradation and security breaches; the expenses associated with our data centers and third-party infrastructure providers; our ability to secure and costs related to additional data center capacity; our reliance on third-party hardware, software and platform providers; the effect of evolving domestic and foreign government regulations, including those related to the provision of services on the Internet, those related to accessing the Internet, and those addressing data privacy, cross-border data transfers and import and export controls; current and potential litigation involving us or our industry, including litigation involving acquired entities such as Tableau, and the resolution or settlement thereof; regulatory developments and regulatory investigations involving us or affecting our industry; our ability to successfully introduce new services and product features, including any efforts to expand our services beyond the CRM market; the success of our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services, technologies and intellectual property rights, including our proposed acquisition of Slack Technologies, Inc.; our ability to realize the benefits from strategic partnerships, joint ventures and investments; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; our ability to compete in the market in which we participate; the success of our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms; our ability to execute our business plans; our ability to continue to grow unearned revenue and remaining performance obligation; the pace of change and innovation in enterprise cloud computing services; the seasonal nature of our sales cycles; our ability to limit customer attrition and costs related to those efforts; the success of our international expansion strategy; the demands on our personnel and infrastructure resulting from significant growth in our customer base and operations, including as a result of acquisitions; our dependency on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet; our real estate and office facilities strategy and related costs and uncertainties; fluctuations in, and our ability to predict, our operating results and cash flows; the variability in our results arising from the accounting for term license revenue products; the performance and fair value of our investments in complementary businesses through our strategic investment portfolio; the impact of future gains or losses from our strategic investment portfolio including gains or losses from overall market conditions that may affect the publicly traded companies within our strategic investment portfolio; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to develop our brands; the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results; the valuation of our deferred tax assets and the release of related valuation allowances; the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and tax laws; uncertainties affecting our ability to estimate our tax rate; uncertainties regarding our tax obligations in connection with potential jurisdictional transfers of intellectual property, including the tax rate, the timing of the transfer and the value of such transferred intellectual property; uncertainties regarding the effect of general economic and market conditions; the impact of geopolitical events; uncertainties regarding the impact of expensing stock options and other equity awards; the sufficiency of our capital resources; risks related to our bridge loan facility associated with our proposed acquisition of Slack Technologies, Inc., 2023 and 2028 senior notes, revolving credit facility and loan associated with 50 Fremont; our ability to comply with our debt covenants and lease obligations; and the impact of climate change, natural disasters and actual or threatened public health emergencies, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. These and other risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report for additional detail regarding factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview We are a global leader in customer relationship management ("CRM") technology that brings companies and customers together. Founded in 1999, we enable companies of every size and industry to connect with their customers in new ways through existing and emerging technologies, including cloud, mobile, social, blockchain, voice, advanced analytics and artificial intelligence (AI), to transform their businesses. 33 Table of Contents Website references throughout this document are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced websites is not incorporated by reference into this report. COVID-19 Impact In December 2019, the novel coronavirus and resulting disease (COVID-19) was first reported. After ongoing assessment of the rapid spread, number of cases and countries affected, on March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant global economic uncertainty, adversely impacted the business of our customers and partners, impacted our business and results of operations and could further impact our results of operations and our cash flows in the future. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been guided by our core values of trust, customer success, innovation and equality. Beginning in the first fiscal quarter of fiscal 2021, we took actions in response to the pandemic that focused on maintaining business continuity, helping our employees, helping our customers and communities, and preparing for the future and the long-term success of our business. As a result of the pandemic and actions taken by us in response to the pandemic, our results for the first fiscal quarter 2021 reflected a decline in new business as compared to the same prior-year period, incremental operating expenses and lower than expected operating cash flows. While we experienced declines in the first fiscal quarter of fiscal 2021, new business grew in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2021 at rates consistent with historical trends prior to COVID-19. In fiscal 2021, changes in billing frequency for new business and investments in our go-to-market efforts resulted in a negative impact to our operating cash flows during the quarter. Our income from operations continued to benefit from our global work from home policy and limited business travel by our employees in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2021. As a result of the financial impacts of COVID-19 we experienced during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 and our current assumptions related to the extent to which the pandemic will affect our business going forward, we expect modest growth in our new incremental business and renewals, total revenues, remaining performance obligation and operating cash flows for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. We do not yet know the impact this will have on our long-term revenue growth. We have in the past implemented strategic realignments to position the Company for future growth and will continue to do so, particularly as we evaluate the impact of COVID-19 on our business. As part of our current strategic realignment, we have redirected and may in the future redirect some resources from areas that no longer align with our business priorities into key growth and strategic areas, as well as to increase investments in our go-to-market and product efforts. As a result of these investments and redirection efforts, which included some position eliminations, we incurred during the third quarter, and expect to continue to incur during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, an increase in expenses. In addition, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we plan to consolidate and sublease our existing real estate leases in select locations resulting in potential impairments to our existing operating lease right of use assets. As we adjust and refine our strategy, there may be additional investments and redirection efforts in the future. In addition, authorities throughout the world have implemented numerous preventative measures to contain or mitigate further spread of the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, limitations on business activity, quarantines, work-from-home directives and shelter-in-place orders. These measures have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, business slowdowns or shutdowns in affected areas, both regionally and worldwide. These business slowdowns and shutdowns have impacted and may continue to impact our business and results of operations. For example, the extent and duration of these measures could impact our ability to address cybersecurity incidents; have resulted in increased internet demand, which could cause access issues; could affect our ability to develop and support products and services; and could cause issues with access to data centers. The ultimate extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance depends on certain developments, including the duration of the pandemic, the severity of the disease, responsive actions taken by public health officials, the impacts on our customers and our sales cycles, our ability to generate new business leads, the impacts on our customers, employee and industry events, and the effects on our vendors, all of which are uncertain and currently cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. As a result, the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our financial condition or results of operations is uncertain. Due to our primarily subscription-based business model, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. If the COVID-19 pandemic has a substantial impact on our employees, partners or customers productivity, our results of operations and overall financial performance may be harmed. In addition, the global macroeconomic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts on our customers business operations and their demand for our products and services may persist for an indefinite period, even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of the impact and possible future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. Highlights from the Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2021. Revenue: Total third quarter revenue was $5.4 billion, an increase of 20 percent year-over-year. 34 Table of Contents Earnings per Share : Third quarter diluted earnings per share was $1.15 as compared to a loss per share of $0.12 from a year ago. Third quarter diluted earnings per share benefited by an unrealized gain of $1.1 billion associated with the initial public offering of one of our strategic investments. Cash: Cash provided by operations for the third quarter was $339 million, an increase of 14 percent year-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities ended the third quarter at $9.5 billion. Remaining Performance Obligation : Remaining performance obligation ended the third quarter at approximately $30.3 billion, an increase of 17 percent year-over-year. Current remaining performance obligation ended the third quarter at approximately $15.3 billion, an increase of 20 percent year-over-year. We continue to invest for future growth through focusing on multi-cloud adoption by our existing customers, growing our relationships with our enterprise customers, expanding internationally and expanding and strengthening our ecosystem of partners and independent software vendors. In addition, even as we help respond to the urgent demands as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are innovating and delivering new solutions to help our customers succeed, such as through a suite of applications built on our platform designed to help our customers re-open safely (Work.com) and to help governments and healthcare organizations manage vaccine programs (Salesforce Care). We regularly evaluate acquisitions and investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our service offerings through a disciplined and thoughtful acquisition process and to nurture the overall ecosystem for our offerings. We continue to evaluate such opportunities and expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. We also plan to continue to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in future periods to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. As part of our business and growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics and integration. We drive innovation organically and, to a lesser extent, through acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of Vlocity in June 2020 and our pending acquisition of Slack Technologies, Inc. (Slack), which was signed in December 2020 and is expected to close in the second quarter of fiscal 2022. As a result of our aggressive growth plans and integration of our previously acquired businesses, we have incurred significant expenses for equity awards and amortization of purchased intangibles, which have reduced our operating income. We periodically make changes to our sales organization to position us for long-term growth, which has in the past and could again in the future result in temporary disruptions to our sales productivity. In addition, we have experienced, and may at times in the future experience, more variation from our forecasted expectations of new business activity due to longer and less predictable sales cycles and increasing complexity of our business, which includes an expanded mix of products and various revenue models resulting from acquisitions and increased enterprise solution selling activities. While we do not expect any of these changes to have a material adverse effect on our business, we experienced slower growth in new business in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 than we originally planned, primarily due to the impacts of COVID-19. Our growth in new business in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2021 was consistent with historical trends. Slower growth in new business in a given period could negatively affect our revenues in future periods, as well as remaining performance obligation in current or future periods, particularly if experienced on a sustained basis. The expanding global scope of our business and the heightened volatility of global markets, including as a result of COVID-19, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency markets. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates had a minimal adverse impact on our revenue results for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 and had a modest favorable impact on our remaining performance obligation as of October 31, 2020. We expect these fluctuations to continue in the future. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2021, for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2021. Operating Segments We operate as one segment. See Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our discussion about segments. Sources of Revenues We derive our revenues from two sources: subscription and support revenues and related professional services. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 94 percent of our total revenues for the nine months ended October 31, 2020. Subscription and support revenues are primarily comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services (collectively, "Cloud Services"). With the May 2018 acquisition of MuleSoft and the August 2019 35 Table of Contents acquisition of Tableau, subscription and support revenues also include revenues associated with software licenses. Software license revenues include fees from the sales of term and perpetual licenses. Revenues from software licenses are generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the customer and revenues from the related support are generally recognized ratably over the contract term. Changes in average contract duration for multi-year licenses can impact revenues recognized upfront. Revenues from software licenses represent less than ten percent of total subscription and support revenue for the nine months ended October 31, 2020. The revenue growth rates of each of our service offerings, as described below in Results of Operations, fluctuate from quarter to quarter and over time. Additionally, we manage the total balanced product portfolio to deliver solutions to our customers, and as a result, the revenue result for each offering is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any subsequent quarter. In addition, some of our Cloud Service offerings have similar features and functions. For example, customers may use our Sales, Service or Platform service offering to record account and contact information, which are similar features across these service offerings. Depending on a customers actual and projected business requirements, more than one service offering may satisfy the customers current and future needs. We record revenue based on the individual products ordered by a customer, not according to the customers business requirements and usage. In addition, as we introduce new features and functions within each offering and refine our allocation methodology for changes in our business, we do not expect it to be practical to adjust historical revenue results by service offering for comparability. Accordingly, comparisons of revenue performance by service offering over time may not be meaningful. Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow Unearned revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in unearned revenue or in revenue depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. There is a disproportionate weighting toward annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year-on-year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, because of this billing activity, our first quarter is typically our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. Conversely, our third quarter has historically been our smallest operating cash flow quarter. The impact of COVID-19, including the temporary financial flexibility offered to some customers in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, which has delayed payments to periods later than expected, as well as investments made in our go-to-market efforts has affected and may continue to affect trends related to the seasonal nature of unearned revenue, accounts receivable and operating cash flow. For example, we have accelerated our investments in our go-to-market and product efforts and expect to continue to do so throughout the remainder of fiscal 2021 resulting in an increase in expenses and a negative impact to operating cash flow. The sequential quarterly changes in accounts receivable and the related unearned revenue and operating cash flow during the first quarter of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of the billing activity that occurs for the following quarters as displayed below (in millions). 36 Table of Contents The results reflected in the tables above, beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, include the impact of the Tableau acquisition in August 2019. Remaining Performance Obligation Our remaining performance obligation represents all future revenue under contract that has not yet been recognized as revenue and includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts. Our current remaining performance obligation represents future revenue under contract that is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months. Remaining performance obligation is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth and is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the timing of renewals, average contract terms, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in new business growth. Remaining performance obligation is also impacted by acquisitions. Unbilled portions of the remaining performance obligation denominated in foreign currencies are revalued each period based on the period end exchange rates. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled balance and corresponding remaining performance obligation are typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increase if the agreement is renewed. Low remaining performance obligation attributable to a particular subscription agreement is often associated with an impending renewal but may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. Changes in average contract duration can impact remaining performance obligation and current remaining performance obligation. Our growth in incremental new business and renewals were consistent with historical trends in the third quarter of fiscal 2021 and benefited our current remaining performance obligation for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates had a modest favorable impact on our current remaining performance obligation as of October 31, 2020. Remaining performance obligation consisted of the following (in billions): 37 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results is impacted by our recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of Vlocity in June 2020 and our acquisition of Tableau in August 2019. Expense contributions by expense type from our recent acquisitions generally may not be separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses into our existing operations, or may be insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented . Cost of Revenues Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our service and providing support, including the costs of data center capacity, certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology, services and data and employee-related costs such as salaries and benefits. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based expenses, the cost of subcontractors and certain third-party fees. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses and allocated overhead. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses make up the majority of our operating expenses and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses and commissions, for our sales and marketing staff, as well as payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel and professional services fees. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related 38 Table of Contents disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies and specific estimates involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies and estimates we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations: the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for business combinations; the standalone selling price ("SSP") of performance obligations for revenue contracts with multiple performance obligations; the valuation of privately held strategic investments, including impairment considerations; the recognition, measurement and valuation of current and deferred income taxes and uncertain tax positions; and the average period of benefit associated with costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts. These estimates may change, as new events occur and additional information is obtained, and such changes will be recognized in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they become known. Actual results could differ from these estimates, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any such differences may be material to our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our discussion about new accounting pronouncements adopted and those pending. 39 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in millions): 3 Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 % of Total Revenues 2019 % of Total Revenues 2020 % of Total Revenues 2019 % of Total Revenues Revenues: Subscription and support $ 5,085 94 % $ 4,239 94 % $ 14,500 94 % $ 11,480 94 % Professional services and other 334 6 274 6 935 6 767 6 Total revenues 5,419 100 4,513 100 15,435 100 12,247 100 Cost of revenues (1)(2): Subscription and support 1,060 20 870 19 3,039 20 2,275 19 Professional services and other 334 6 264 6 920 6 740 6 Total cost of revenues 1,394 26 1,134 25 3,959 26 3,015 25 Gross profit 4,025 74 3,379 75 11,476 74 9,232 75 Operating expenses (1)(2): Research and development 902 17 774 17 2,659 17 1,935 16 Marketing and sales 2,377 44 2,063 46 7,042 45 5,584 45 General and administrative 522 9 477 11 1,513 10 1,214 10 Loss on settlement of Salesforce.org reseller agreement 0 0 0 0 0 0 166 1 Total operating expenses 3,801 70 3,314 74 11,214 72 8,899 72 Income from operations 224 4 65 1 262 2 333 3 Gains on strategic investments, net 1,036 19 6 0 1,910 12 396 3 Other income (expense) (10) 0 (7) 0 (36) 0 (19) 0 Income before benefit from (provision for) income taxes 1,250 23 64 1 2,136 14 710 6 Benefit from (provision for) income taxes (3) (169) (3) (173) (3) 1,669 11 (336) (3) Net income (loss) $ 1,081 20 % $ (109) (2) % $ 3,805 25 % $ 374 3 % 40 Table of Contents (1) Amounts related to amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 % of Total Revenues 2019 % of Total Revenues 2020 % of Total Revenues 2019 % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 169 3 % $ 157 4 % $ 494 3 % $ 280 2 % Marketing and sales 114 2 109 2 344 2 % 242 2 (2) Amounts related to stock-based expenses, as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 % of Total Revenues 2019 % of Total Revenues 2020 % of Total Revenues 2019 % of Total Revenues Cost of revenues $ 65 1 % $ 54 1 % $ 180 1 % $ 143 1 % Research and development 181 3 169 4 531 4 348 3 Marketing and sales 242 5 249 6 718 5 625 5 General and administrative 78 1 71 1 219 1 158 1 (3) In the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we recorded approximately $2.0 billion of benefit from income taxes due to a one-time discrete tax item from the recognition of deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity transfer of intangible property. The following table sets forth selected balance sheet data and other metrics for each of the periods indicated (in millions, except remaining performance obligation, which is presented in billions): As of October 31, As of January 31, 2020 2020 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 9,492 $ 7,947 Unearned revenue 7,923 10,662 Remaining performance obligation 30.3 30.8 Principal due on our outstanding debt obligations (1) 2,691 2,694 (1) Amounts do not include operating or financing lease obligations. Remaining performance obligation represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 compared to the same period of fiscal 2020 was impacted by our acquisitions in the current and prior year, including the acquisition of Tableau in the prior year, which was our largest acquisition to date. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2020, we may quantitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date on the growth in certain of our revenues where such discussions would be meaningful. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons generally were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses into our existing operations or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented . Revenues Three Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 5,085 $ 4,239 $ 846 20 % Professional services and other 334 274 60 22 Total revenues $ 5,419 $ 4,513 $ 906 20 % 41 Table of Contents Nine Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Percent Subscription and support $ 14,500 $ 11,480 $ 3,020 26 % Professional services and other 935 767 168 22 Total revenues $ 15,435 $ 12,247 $ 3,188 26 % The increase in subscription and support revenues was primarily caused by volume-driven increases from new business, which includes new customers, upgrades, additional subscriptions from existing customers and acquisition activity. Pricing was not a significant driver of the increase in revenues for the period. Revenues from term and perpetual software licenses, which are recognized at a point in time, represent approximately six percent of total subscription and support revenues for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 94 percent of our total revenues for both the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019. Additionally, subscription and support revenues increased by approximately $46 million as a result of one more day (February 29, 2020) in the nine months ended October 31, 2020 compared to the same period a year ago. The acquisition of Tableau in August 2019 contributed approximately $378 million and $1.0 billion to total subscription and support revenues in the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, respectively. As a result of our business combination activity, we recorded unearned revenue related to acquired contracts from acquired entities at fair value on the date of acquisition. As a result, we did not recognize certain revenues related to these acquired contracts that the acquired entities would have otherwise recorded as an independent entity. Our growth in revenues is also impacted by attrition. Attrition represents the reduction or loss of the annualized value of our contracts with customers. We calculate our attrition rate at a point in time on a trailing twelve-month basis as of the end of each month. As of October 31, 2020, our attrition rate, excluding our Integration service offering, Salesforce.org and Tableau, was less than ten percent. In general, we exclude service offerings from acquisitions from our attrition calculation until they are fully integrated into our customer success organization. While our attrition rate is difficult to predict, we expect it to remain consistent in the near term due to the diversity of size, industry and geography within the customer base. However, our attrition rate may increase over time, including, for example, as a result of COVID-19. We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped keep our attrition rate consistent as compared to the prior year. Consistent attrition rates play a role in our ability to maintain growth in our subscription and support revenues. The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers. Subscription and Support Revenue by Service Offering Subscription and support revenues consisted of the following (in millions): Three Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 Variance Percent Sales $ 1,311 $ 1,168 12% Service 1,376 1,140 21% Platform and Other 1,594 1,287 24% Marketing and Commerce 804 644 25% Total $ 5,085 $ 4,239 Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 Variance Percent Sales $ 3,835 $ 3,371 14% Service 3,931 3,247 21% Platform and Other 4,470 3,041 47% Marketing and Commerce 2,264 1,821 24% Total $ 14,500 $ 11,480 42 Table of Contents Our Industry Offerings revenue is included in either Sales, Service or Platform and Other depending on the primary service offering purchased. Integration and Analytics revenues are included in Platform and Other. The acquisition of Tableau in August 2019 contributed approximately $378 million and $1.0 billion to Platform and Other during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, respectively. The revenue growth rates of each of our core service offerings have been and may be adversely impacted by COVID-19 in the future, depending on our customers actual and projected business needs. Revenues by geography were as follows : Three Months Ended October 31, (in millions) 2020 As a % of Total Revenues 2019 As a % of Total Revenues Growth rate Americas $ 3,758 69 % $ 3,216 71 % 17 % Europe 1,149 21 880 20 31 Asia Pacific 512 10 417 9 23 $ 5,419 100 % $ 4,513 100 % 20 % Nine Months Ended October 31, (in millions) 2020 As a % of Total Revenues 2019 As a % of Total Revenues Growth rate Americas $ 10,724 69 % $ 8,649 71 % 24 % Europe 3,253 21 2,421 20 34 Asia Pacific 1,458 10 1,177 9 24 $ 15,435 100 % $ 12,247 100 % 26 % Revenues by geography are determined based on the region of the Salesforce contracting entity, which may be different than the region of the customer. The increase in Americas revenues was the result of the increasing acceptance of our services and the investment of additional sales resources. The increase in revenues outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our services, our focus on marketing our services internationally and investment in additional international resources. Revenues in the Americas and Europe also benefited from our acquisition of Tableau in August 2019. Foreign currency fluctuations had a minimal impact on revenues outside of the Americas for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019. Cost of Revenues. Three Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Subscription and support $ 1,060 $ 870 $ 190 Professional services and other 334 264 70 Total cost of revenues $ 1,394 $ 1,134 $ 260 Percent of total revenues 26 % 25 % Nine Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Subscription and support $ 3,039 $ 2,275 $ 764 Professional services and other 920 740 180 Total cost of revenues $ 3,959 $ 3,015 $ 944 Percent of total revenues 26 % 25 % For the three months ended October 31, 2020, the increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to an increase of $84 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $11 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $59 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, an increase of amortization of purchased intangible assets of $12 million and an increase in allocated overhead. For the nine months ended October 31, 2020, the increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to an increase of $276 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $37 million in stock-based 43 Table of Contents expenses, an increase of $220 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, and an increase of amortization of purchased intangible assets of $214 million. We have increased our headcount by 20 percent since October 31, 2019 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity to allow us to scale with our customers and continuously evolve our security measures. We also plan to add employees in our professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in future periods. Our professional services and other gross margin was break-even and positive $15 million during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, respectively, and positive $10 million and $27 million during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2019, respectively. We expect the cost of professional services to be approximately in line with revenues from professional services in future fiscal quarters. We believe that this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings. Operating Expenses. Three Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Research and development $ 902 $ 774 $ 128 Marketing and sales 2,377 2,063 314 General and administrative 522 477 45 Total operating expenses $ 3,801 $ 3,314 $ 487 Percent of total revenues 70 % 74 % Nine Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Research and development $ 2,659 $ 1,935 $ 724 Marketing and sales 7,042 5,584 1,458 General and administrative 1,513 1,214 299 Loss on settlement of Salesforce.org reseller agreement 0 166 (166) Total operating expenses $ 11,214 $ 8,899 $ 2,315 Percent of total revenues 72 % 72 % For the three months ended October 31, 2020, the increase in research and development expense was primarily due to an increase of approximately $98 million in employee related costs, an increase of $12 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in our development and test data center costs and allocated overhead. For the nine months ended October 31, 2020, the increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an increase of approximately $452 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $183 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in our development and test data center costs and allocated overhead. Our research and development headcount increased by 13 percent since October 31, 2019 in order to improve and extend our service offerings, develop new technologies, and integrate acquired companies. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to invest in additional employees and technology to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired technologies. For the three months ended October 31, 2020, the increase in marketing and sales expenses was primarily due to an increase of $336 million in employee-related costs and amortization of deferred commissions, an increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets of $5 million and allocated overhead partially offset by a decrease of $7 million in stock-based expense and a reduction in employee travel and expenses. For the nine months ended October 31, 2020, the increase in marketing and sales expenses was primarily due to an increase of $1.2 billion in employee-related costs and amortization of deferred commissions, an increase of $93 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets of $102 million, and allocated overhead partially offset by a reduction in employee travel and expenses. Marketing and sales expenses for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 were also negatively impacted by the one-time partial minimum commission guarantee offered to our direct sales force and the cancellation of our in-person events. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by 13 percent since October 31, 2019, primarily attributable to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. We expect that marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to hire additional sales personnel. 44 Table of Contents For the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. General and administrative expenses for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 were also negatively impacted by our donations to members of our ecosystem and community, including the donation of personal protective equipment. Our general and administrative headcount increased by 14 percent since October 31, 2019 as we added personnel to support our growth. While not material to date, we may experience increasing credit loss risks from accounts receivable in future periods depending on the duration or degree of economic slowdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and our actual experience in the future may differ from our past experiences or current assessments. For the nine months ended October 31, 2019 we incurred a one-time, non-cash operating expense charge of $166 million, as a result of the June 2019 Salesforce.org business combination and effective settlement of all existing agreements. Other income and expense. Three Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Gains on strategic investments, net $ 1,036 $ 6 $ 1,030 Other expense (10) (7) (3) Nine Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Gains on strategic investments, net $ 1,910 $ 396 $ 1,514 Other expense (36) (19) (17) Gains on strategic investments, net consists primarily of mark-to-market adjustments related to our publicly held equity securities, observable price adjustments related to our privately held equity securities and other adjustments. Net gains recognized during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 were primarily driven by unrealized gains recognized on publicly traded equity securities of $1.0 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively. Other expense primarily consists of interest expense on our debt as well as our operating and finance leases offset by investment income. Interest expense was $29 million and $32 million for the three months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively and $87 million and $101 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Investment income decreased $13 million and $23 million in the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020, respectively, compared to the same periods a year ago due to lower interest rates across our portfolio and was modestly offset by larger cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. Benefit from (provision for) income taxes. Three Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Provision for income taxes $ (169) $ (173) $ 4 Effective tax rate 14 % 270 % Nine Months Ended October 31, Variance (in millions) 2020 2019 Dollars Benefit from (provision for) income taxes $ 1,669 $ (336) $ 2,005 Effective tax rate (78) % 47 % We recognized a tax provision of $169 million on a pretax income of $1.3 billion for the three months ended October 31, 2020 and a tax benefit of $1.7 billion on a pretax income of $2.1 billion for the nine months ended October 31, 2020. In the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we changed our international corporate structure, which included the consolidation of certain intangible property in Ireland resulting in a net tax benefit of $2.0 billion related to foreign deferred tax assets. We believe that it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized in Ireland. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate due to changes in our domestic and foreign earnings or material discrete tax items or a combination of these factors resulting from transactions or events, such as acquisitions, changes to our operating structure, or COVID-19. We recognized a tax provision of $173 million on a pretax income of $64 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019. Our tax provision was primarily related to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States. In addition, the impact of acquisitions changed our quarterly earnings and as a result , we recorded higher quarterly income tax 45 Table of Contents provision. We recognized a tax provision of $336 million on a pretax income of $710 million for the nine months ended October 31, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources At October 31, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $9.5 billion and accounts receivable of $3.3 billion. Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and obligations, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency obligations, asset backed securities, foreign government obligations, mortgage backed obligations, covered bonds, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. Our revolving loan credit agreement, which provides $1.0 billion in unsecured financing (Credit Facility) as of October 31, 2020, also serves as a source of liquidity. As of October 31, 2020, our remaining performance obligation was $30.3 billion. Our remaining performance obligation represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized and includes unearned revenue, which has been invoiced and is recorded on the balance sheet, and unbilled amounts that are not recorded on the balance sheet, that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Cash from operations could continue to be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and other risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided by operating activities, unbilled amounts related to contracted non-cancelable subscription agreements, which is not reflected on the balance sheet, and, if necessary, our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt repayment needs over the next 12 months. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. To facilitate these acquisitions or investments, we may seek additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all, impacting our ability to complete subsequent acquisitions or investments. For example, in connection with our pending acquisition of Slack, we obtained a commitment for a $10 billion 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility (the Bridge Facility), subject to customary conditions. We intend to replace the Bridge Facility and fund the cash portion of the acquisition consideration with new debt and cash on our balance sheet. Cash Flows For the three and nine months ended October 31, 2020 and 2019 our cash flows were as follows (in millions): 3 Three Months Ended October 31, Nine Months Ended October 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 339 $ 298 $ 2,627 $ 2,699 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (1,035) 63 (4,065) (1,515) Net cash provided by financing activities 368 15 1,018 39 Operating Activities The net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 was primarily related to net income of $3.8 billion, adjusted for non-cash items including $2.0 billion from a one-time discrete tax item from the recognition of deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity transfer of certain intangible property, $2.0 billion of depreciation and amortization and $1.6 billion of expenses related to employee stock plans. Cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 further benefited by the change in accounts receivable, net of $2.9 billion, offset by change in unearned revenue of $2.8 billion. Cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 was negatively impacted by changes in billing frequency for new business due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, our operating cash flows were negatively impacted by investments made in our go-to-market efforts, such as the partial minimum commission guarantee provided in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. The net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2019 was primarily related to net income of $374 million, adjusted for non-cash items such as $1.5 billion related to depreciation and amortization and $1.3 billion of expenses related to employee stock plans, and change in accounts receivable, net of $2.6 billion, offset by change in unearned revenue of $2.1 billion. Investing Activities The net cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 was primarily related to cash consideration for the acquisition of Vlocity, net of cash acquired, of approximately $1.2 billion as well as purchases of 46 Table of Contents marketable securities of $4.0 billion and was partially offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities of $2.0 billion. In addition, we paid approximately $150 million of cash consideration related to the purchase of 450 Mission, which is reflected in capital expenditures. The net cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2019 was primarily related to the purchases of marketable securities of $1.9 billion. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2020 consisted primarily of $1.1 billion from proceeds from equity plans. Net cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended October 31, 2019 consisted primarily of $0.6 billion from proceeds from equity plans. Debt As of October 31, 2020, we had senior unsecured debt outstanding due in 2023 and 2028 with a total carrying value of $2.5 billion. In addition, we had senior secured notes outstanding related to our loan on our purchase of an office building located at 50 Fremont Street in San Francisco (50 Fremont), due in 2023 with a total carrying value of $190 million. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of October 31, 2020. We maintain a $1.0 billion Credit Facility that matures in April 2023. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility as of October 31, 2020. We may use the proceeds of future borrowings under the Credit Facility for refinancing other indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted acquisitions. We do not have any special purpose entities and we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space, co-location data center facilities and our development and test data center, as well as leases for computer equipment, software, furniture and fixtures, excluding all secured and unsecured debt. At October 31, 2020, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were approximately $4.0 billion. As of October 31, 2020, we have additional operating leases that have not yet commenced totaling $1.9 billion. These operating leases include agreements for office facilities to be constructed and will commence between fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 2025 with lease terms of 3 to 18 years. During fiscal 2021 and in future fiscal years, we have made and expect to continue to make additional investments in our infrastructure to scale our operations, increase productivity and enhance our security measures. We plan to upgrade or replace various internal systems to scale with our overall growth. While we continue to make investments in our infrastructure including offices, information technology and data centers to provide capacity for the growth of our business, our strategy may change related to these investments and we may slow the pace of our investments including in response to the known and potential impacts of COVID-19 on our business. Other Future Obligations In December 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Slack, a leading channel-based messaging platform. Under the terms of the agreement, Slack shareholders will receive $26.79 in cash and 0.0776 shares of our common stock for each outstanding Slack share of common stock. The transaction represents an enterprise value of approximately $27.7 billion based on the closing price of our common stock on November 30, 2020. The agreement also provides for the assumption of outstanding equity awards held by Slack employees. We expect to fund the cash portion of the consideration with a combination of new debt and cash on our balance sheet. In connection with our entry into the definitive agreement for the acquisition, we obtained a commitment for a $10 billion 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility, subject to customary conditions. In November 2020, we entered into an agreement to acquire Acumen Solutions, Inc. (Acumen) for approximately $570 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. The acquisition is expected to close in the first half of fiscal 2022, subject to customary closing conditions. In October 2019, we acquired ClickSoftware for approximately $1.4 billion. In the event that we fully integrate the operations and assets of ClickSoftware, as well as other acquired Israeli based entities into our operations, we may be subject to a potential one-time income tax charge based on an assumed Israeli statutory tax rate of 23 percent applied to the value of any transferred intangibles. The timing and amount of the cash payment, if any, is uncertain and would be based upon a number of factors, including our integration plans, valuations related to intercompany transactions, the tax rate in effect at the time, potential negotiations with the taxing authorities and potential litigation. 47 Table of Contents Environmental, Social, Governance We believe the business of business is to make the world a better place for all of our stakeholders, including our stockholders, customers, employees, partners, the planet and the communities in which we work and live. To this end, we are proud to have signed and to support the Business Roundtables Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation, which affirms the essential role corporations can play in improving our society, a belief that Salesforce has long held and long incorporated into our business practices, to make sure we are doing well and doing good. In addition, delivering innovative solutions to our customers is core to our mission and, as a technology company, we have developed solutions on the Salesforce platform that enable our customers and stakeholders to manage and affect environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters that are meaningful to them. We also believe that transparently disclosing the goals and relevant metrics related to our ESG programs will allow our stakeholders to be informed on our progress. To this end, we are working to align with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures and of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) by the end of fiscal 2021. A summary of the key ESG topics that are most important to our stakeholders and the success of our business, along with key goals for each topic, can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 5, 2020. We also published our annual Stakeholder Impact Report in May 2020, which includes a table of detailed metrics and indicators that highlights the key goals of our ESG programs, provides year over year trends and references SASB, The Global Reporting Initiative, and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our ESG highlights as of and for the quarter ended October 31, 2020 include the following: COVID-19 Response . We continued to support our employees, our customers, and our communities in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2021, we launched Work.com for schools to help schools reopen safely, facilitate communication between teachers and families at scale, and support students remotely. We also announced Work.com for vaccines which is intended to help governments and healthcare organizations more safely and efficiently manage vaccine programs at scale. Racial Equality and Justice Task Force . We continue to make progress on our Racial Equality and Justice Task Force to help drive systemic change in our workplace and community. We invited employees from across the business, as well as leaders of our Black employee resource group, to help guide our vision. Our response focuses on four pillars of People, Purchasing, Philanthropy and Policy and our vision and goals have been formalized in a new Racial Equality and Justice V2MOM, which is an internal management tool that incorporates our vision, values, methods, obstacles, and measures. Impact Investing. In October 2020, we launched our second Salesforce Ventures Impact Fund to continue supporting innovative companies driving social and environmental change. The new $100 million fund is expected to accelerate the growth of cloud companies addressing some of todays most pressing needs including education and re-skilling, climate action, diversity, equity and inclusion, and providing tech for nonprofits and foundations. Government Affairs. To promote civic engagement and enable every eligible employee to vote, we have updated our policies to recognize national Election Day in the U.S. as a company holiday for our U.S. employees. Employees in other countries are also provided the day off when their national election takes place during the work week. We also provided employees the opportunity to log Volunteer Time Off for volunteering as non-partisan poll workers on Election Day. Integrated Philanthropy . Together with the Salesforce Foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, since inception, we have given approximately $406 million to charitable organizations, logged more than 5.5 million employee volunteer hours around the world and provided more than 51,000 nonprofit and higher education organizations with the use of our service offerings for free or at a discount. In addition, in September, we published our Community Impact Report for 2020, which assesses the social value we are delivering to the social impact sector, illustrates customer outcomes and breaks down our approach in this area. Protecting the Planet. Salesforce continues to support science-based climate policies and actions. Policy Advocacy. In August 2020, Salesforce was recognized by the Climate Group and RE100 as Best Policy Influencer for our efforts in calling for a federal price on carbon, supporting new emissions standards in the state of Virginia, and signing the largest ever UN-backed CEO-led climate advocacy effort to urge governments to incorporate climate action in their economic recovery plans. Renewable Energy. We continued to support new efforts to decarbonize regional energy grids through our first international Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA) in Australia. This VPPA supports our ambition to achieve our 100 percent renewable energy goal by 2022. 1T.org . In January 2020, as a founding partner of 1t.org, and in support of its mission, Salesforce announced our goal to support and mobilize the conservation, restoration, and growth of 100 million trees by the end of 2030. In August, Salesforce supported the launch of 1T.orgs U.S. chapter, and in September, released its 48 Table of Contents Tree Tracker in partnership with Plant-for-the-Planet; tracking its progress toward our 100 million tree goal and enabling stakeholders to donate to global projects it is supporting. While we believe all of these goals align with our long-term growth strategy and financial and operational priorities, they are aspirational and may change, and there is no guarantee or promise that they will be met. 49 Table of Contents