Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2024 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 26, 2024, and (2) our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial information included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Some of the information contained in the following discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. These statements speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to February 1, resulting in a 52-week or 53-week fiscal year. Our fiscal years 2025 and 2023 each consist of 52 weeks, with the fourth quarter consisting of 13 weeks, and our fiscal year 2024 was a 53-week fiscal year, with the fourth quarter consisting of 14 weeks. Overview Samsara is on a mission to increase the safety, efficiency, and sustainability of the operations that power the global economy. To realize this vision, we pioneered the Connected Operations Cloud, which is a system of record that enables businesses that depend on physical operations to harness IoT data to develop actionable insights and improve their operations. Our Connected Operations Cloud consolidates data from our IoT devices and a growing ecosystem of connected assets and third-party systems, and makes it easy for organizations to access, analyze, and act on data insights using our cloud dashboard, custom alerts and reports, mobile apps, and workflows. Our differentiated, purpose-built suite of Applications enables organizations to embrace and deploy a digital, cloud-connected strategy across their operations. With Samsara, customers have the ability to drive safer operations, increase business efficiency, and achieve their sustainability goals, all to improve the lives of their employees and the customers they serve. We were founded in 2015 and have achieved significant growth since our inception. For the three months ended May 4, 2024 and April 29, 2023, our revenue was $280.7 million and $204.3 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 37%. Our net loss was $56.3 million and $67.9 million for the three months ended May 4, 2024 and April 29, 2023, respectively. Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of our customer relationships, and we continue to make significant investments to grow our customer base. Key Business Metrics The following table shows a summary of our key business metrics as of the periods presented (dollars in thousands): As of May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Annual recurring revenue (ARR) $ 1,175,684 $ 856,166 Customers > $100,000 ARR 1,964 1,375 ARR We believe that ARR is a key indicator of the trajectory of our business performance, enables measurement of the progress of our business initiatives, and serves as an indicator of future growth. We define ARR as the annualized value of subscription contracts that have commenced revenue recognition as of the measurement date. ARR highlights trends that may be less visible from our financial statements due to ratable revenue recognition. ARR does not have a standardized meaning and is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and is not intended to be combined with or replace it. ARR is not a forecast, and the active contracts at the date used in calculating ARR may or may not be renewed. Number of Customers Over $100,000 in ARR We focus on customers representing over $100,000 in ARR, as this key business metric is indicative of our penetration with larger customers. The number of our customers over $100,000 in ARR has grown over time as we have focused our sales efforts on larger customers, invested in our partner ecosystem, and released more Applications to address the needs of our larger customers. 20 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Performance Acquiring New Customers We believe that we have a substantial opportunity to continue to grow our customer base. We intend to drive new customer acquisition by continuing to invest significantly in sales and marketing to engage our prospective customers, increase brand awareness, and drive adoption of our Connected Operations Cloud. Our ability to attract new customers depends on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, macroeconomic factors and their impact on our customers businesses, and the success of our efforts to expand internationally. Expanding Within Our Existing Customer Base We believe that there is a significant opportunity to expand sales to existing customers following their initial adoption of our Connected Operations Cloud. We expand within our customer base by selling more Applications and expanding existing Applications across geographies and divisions. Our ability to expand within our customer base will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction, pricing, competition, macroeconomic factors, and changes in our customers spending levels. Investments in Innovation and Future Growth Our performance is driven by continuous innovation on our Connected Operations Cloud and our ability to scale our headcount to grow our business. We continuously invest in adding new data types to our Connected Operations Cloud and innovate with this growing data asset to introduce new Applications over time. Our performance is also impacted by our ability to scale our headcount across our business to support our growth. We remain committed to investing in our sales and marketing capacity and our research and development organization, and to driving revenue growth globally. Macroeconomic Trends Unfavorable conditions in the economy, both in the United States and abroad, may negatively affect the growth of our business and our results of operations. For example, our business and results of operations could be affected by global macroeconomic trends and events such as inflationary pressure, interest rate increases and declines in consumer confidence, widespread disruptions of supply chains and freight and shipping channels, increased prices for many goods and services (including fluctuating fuel costs), labor shortages, delayed or reduced spending on information technology (IT) products, and significant volatility and disruption of financial markets, as well as other conditions arising from international conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, geopolitical tensions involving China, and the conflict in Israel and Gaza, uncertainty around the outcome of political elections, and the emergence of pandemics and epidemics. We are continuously monitoring these global events and other macroeconomic developments and how they may impact us directly or indirectly as a result of the effects on our customers and suppliers. Refer to the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 26, 2024 for further discussion of the impacts of macroeconomic trends on our business. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We provide access to our Connected Operations Cloud through subscription arrangements, whereby the customer is charged a per-subscription fee for access for a specified term. Subscription agreements contain multiple service elements for one or more of our cloud-based Applications via mobile app(s) or a website that enable data collection and provide access to the cellular network, IoT devices (which we also refer to as connected devices), and support services delivered over the term of the arrangement. Our subscription contracts typically have an initial term of three to five years and are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable, subject to limited exceptions under our standard terms of service and other exceptions for public sector customers, who are often subject to annual budget appropriations cycles. Our Connected Operations Cloud and IoT devices are highly interdependent and interrelated, and represent a combined performance obligation within the context of the contract. In each of our past two fiscal years, we generated approximately 98% of our revenue from subscriptions to our Connected Operations Cloud. The remaining portion of our revenue not generated from subscriptions to our Connected Operations Cloud is derived from the sale of replacement IoT devices, including gateways, sensors and cameras, related shipping and handling fees, and professional services. 21 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of the amortization of IoT device costs associated with subscription agreements, cellular-related costs, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, customer support costs, warranty charges, and employee-related costs directly associated with our customer support and operations, including salaries, employee benefits and stock-based compensation, amortization of internal-use software development and certain cloud computing implementation costs, expenses related to shipping and handling, packaging, fulfillment, warehousing, write-downs of excess and obsolete inventory, and costs associated with software subscriptions, office facilities, IT-related expenses, and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. As our customers expand and increase the use of our Connected Operations Cloud driven by additional IoT devices and Applications, our cost of revenue may vary from quarter to quarter as a percentage of our revenue due to the timing and extent of these expenses. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our Connected Operations Cloud and customer support and operations personnel as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas will affect our cost of revenue in the future. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries, employee benefits and stock-based compensation, depreciation and other expenses related to prototyping IoT devices, product initiatives, software subscriptions, hosting used in research and development, and costs associated with office facilities, IT-related expenses, and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products and enhancing the utility of our Connected Operations Cloud. We capitalize the portion of our internal-use software development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization. We expect our research and development expenses to generally increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance our Connected Operations Cloud. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing activities, including salaries, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and sales commissions. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, media, marketing, promotional costs, free trial expenses, brand awareness activities, business development, corporate partnerships, travel, conferences and events, professional services, and costs associated with software subscriptions, office facilities, IT-related expenses, and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our customer base and increase our brand awareness. As a result, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future. Our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for executive, finance, legal, human resources, facilities, and certain IT personnel, including salaries, employee benefits and stock-based compensation, professional fees for external legal, accounting, recruiting and other consulting services, bad debt, costs associated with software subscriptions, office facilities, IT-related expenses, and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, and unallocated lease costs. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future to support our growth. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest Income and Other Income, Net Interest income and other income, net, consists primarily of income earned on our money market funds included in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and our short-term and long-term investments, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts related to our marketable debt securities, net of associated fees. We also have foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. As we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. 22 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In December 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development introduced a new global minimum corporate tax of 15%, commonly referred to as Pillar Two. While the United States has not yet adopted the Pillar Two rules, various other governments around the world are enacting legislation which will apply to us beginning in fiscal year 2026. As we do not currently have material operations in jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the Pillar Two minimum, we do not expect these to materially increase our global tax costs. There remains uncertainty as to the final Pillar Two model rules and their application. We will continue to monitor United States and global legislative action related to Pillar Two for potential impacts. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 and April 29, 2023 Revenue Our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Amount % Revenue $ 280,726 $ 204,320 $ 76,406 37 % Revenue increased by $76.4 million, or 37%, for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023, primarily due to an increase in customer count and increased purchases of our subscription offerings, including subscriptions to additional Applications, by existing customers. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Our cost of revenue, gross profit, and gross margin are summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Amount % Cost of revenue $ 68,625 $ 57,557 $ 11,068 19 % Gross profit $ 212,101 $ 146,763 Gross margin 76 % 72 % Cost of revenue increased by $11.1 million, or 19%, for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023, primarily due to $6.9 million of increased amortization of deferred IoT device costs, $2.0 million of increased employee-related costs, which included a $1.6 million increase in salaries and benefits and related employer taxes and a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, and $1.6 million of increased infrastructure costs associated with our product offerings. The increases in amortization of deferred IoT device costs and infrastructure costs were primarily due to increased sales volume year-over-year. Our gross margin increased to 76% for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to 72% for the three months ended April 29, 2023, mainly due to operational efficiencies in infrastructure costs, direct labor costs, warranty charges, and deferred IoT device costs. 23 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Amount % Research and development $ 72,973 $ 60,366 $ 12,607 21 % Percentage of revenue 26 % 30 % Research and development expense increased by $12.6 million, or 21%, for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023, primarily due to a $9.5 million increase in employee-related costs, which included a $6.4 million increase in salaries and benefits and related employer taxes and a $3.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, primarily due to increased headcount to support our research and development organization. The increase in our research and development expense was also due to a $2.0 million increase in third-party cloud infrastructure expenses and a $1.2 million increase in IT-related costs and software subscriptions. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Amount % Sales and marketing $ 147,437 $ 118,955 $ 28,482 24 % Percentage of revenue 53 % 58 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $28.5 million, or 24%, for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023, primarily due to a $21.7 million increase in employee-related costs, which included a $19.0 million increase in salaries and benefits and related employer taxes and a $3.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, primarily due to increased headcount to support our sales organization. The increase in our sales and marketing expense was also due to a $3.2 million increase in travel-related expenses and expenses relating to our customer visits, conferences, and other events, and a $2.5 million increase in IT-related costs and software subscriptions. General and Administrative General and administrative expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Amount % General and administrative $ 57,688 $ 43,266 $ 14,422 33 % Percentage of revenue 21 % 21 % General and administrative expense increased by $14.4 million, or 33%, for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023, primarily due to an $11.1 million increase in employee-related costs, which included a $5.9 million increase in salaries and benefits and related employer taxes and a $5.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, primarily due to increased headcount to support the growth of our finance, accounting, human resources, and legal functions. The increase in our general and administrative expense was also due to a $2.7 million increase in bad debt expense, a $2.5 million increase in legal fees, and a $1.5 million increase in software subscriptions. The increases in general and administrative expense were partially offset by a $2.9 million decrease in IT-related costs. 24 Table of Contents Interest Income and Other Income, Net Interest income and other income, net, are summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Amount % Interest income and other income, net $ 10,084 $ 8,895 $ 1,189 13 % Interest income and other income, net, increased by $1.2 million, or 13%, for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023. $1.9 million of this increase was primarily due to higher interest yields on investments and a larger investment base of our managed portfolio of marketable debt securities. The increase in our interest income and other income, net, was partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in foreign currency losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Amount % Provision for income taxes $ 376 $ 927 $ (551) (59 %) Effective tax rate (0.7 %) (1.4 %) The provision for income taxes decreased by $0.6 million, or 59%, for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023, primarily due to stock-based compensation expense windfalls within our foreign entities. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we review the following non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 215,867 $ 149,678 Non-GAAP gross margin 77 % 73 % Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 6,159 $ (19,031) Non-GAAP operating margin 2 % (9 %) Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ 15,867 $ (11,063) Free cash flow $ 18,608 $ 7,955 Free cash flow margin 7 % 4 % Limitations and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for financial information presented under GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures versus comparable financial measures determined under GAAP. For example, other companies in our industry may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance. In addition, free cash flow does not reflect our future contractual commitments or the total increase or decrease of our cash balance for a given period. These and other limitations could reduce the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as analytical tools. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and to not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 25 Table of Contents Expenses Excluded from Non-GAAP Performance Financial Measures Stock-based compensation expense-related charges include the amortization of deferred stock-based compensation expense for capitalized software and employer taxes on employee equity transactions. Stock-based compensation expense-related charges are excluded because they are primarily a non-cash expense that management believes is not reflective of our ongoing operational performance. Employer taxes on employee equity transactions, which are a cash expense, are excluded because such taxes are directly tied to the timing and size of employee equity transactions and the future fair market value of our common stock, which may vary from period to period independent of the operating performance of our business. Lease modification, impairment, and related charges, and legal settlements are excluded because management believes that such charges are not reflective of our ongoing operational performance. Non-GAAP Performance Financial Measures Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit excluding the effect of stock-based compensation expense-related charges included in cost of revenue. Non-GAAP gross margin is defined as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. We use non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitate period-to-period comparisons of operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP gross profit to our GAAP gross profit for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Gross profit $ 212,101 $ 146,763 Add: Stock-based compensation expense-related charges (1) 3,766 2,915 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 215,867 $ 149,678 GAAP gross margin 76 % 72 % Non-GAAP gross margin 77 % 73 % __________ (1)Stock-based compensation expense-related charges included approximately $0.4 million and $0.2 million of employer taxes on employee equity transactions for the three months ended May 4, 2024 and April 29, 2023, respectively. 26 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Income (Loss) from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, or non-GAAP operating income (loss), as income (loss) from operations excluding the effect of stock-based compensation expense-related charges, lease modification, impairment, and related charges, and legal settlements. Non-GAAP operating margin is defined as non-GAAP operating income (loss) as a percentage of total revenue. We use non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP operating margin in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP operating margin provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitate period-to-period comparisons of operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP income (loss) from operations to our GAAP loss from operations for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Loss from operations $ (65,997) $ (75,824) Add: Stock-based compensation expense-related charges (1) 72,156 56,793 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 6,159 $ (19,031) GAAP operating margin (24 %) (37 %) Non-GAAP operating margin 2 % (9 %) __________ (1)Stock-based compensation expense-related charges included approximately $7.0 million and $3.8 million of employer taxes on employee equity transactions for the three months ended May 4, 2024 and April 29, 2023, respectively. Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as net loss excluding the effect of stock-based compensation expense-related charges, lease modification, impairment, and related charges, and legal settlements. We use non-GAAP net income (loss) in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP net income (loss) provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP net income (loss) to our GAAP net loss for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Net loss $ (56,289) $ (67,856) Add: Stock-based compensation expense-related charges 72,156 56,793 Non-GAAP net income (loss) (1) $ 15,867 $ (11,063) __________ (1)There were no material income tax effects on our non-GAAP adjustments for all periods presented. 27 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Liquidity Financial Measures Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Margin We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by cash used for purchases of property and equipment. Free cash flow margin is calculated as free cash flow as a percentage of total revenue. We believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin, even if negative, are useful in evaluating liquidity and provide information to management and investors about our ability to fund future operating needs and strategic initiatives. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 23,670 $ 10,454 Purchase of property and equipment (5,062) (2,499) Free cash flow (1) $ 18,608 $ 7,955 Net cash provided by operating activities margin 8 % 5 % Free cash flow margin (1) 7 % 4 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 3,051 $ (17,729) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 312 $ (289) __________ (1)Free cash flow includes the cash impact of non-recurring capital expenditures associated with the build-out of our corporate office facilities in San Francisco, California, net of tenant allowances (in thousands): Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Purchase of property and equipment for build-out of corporate office facilities, net of tenant allowances (2) $ $ (10,179) (2)In April 2023, we settled a lease dispute which was primarily related to lease incentives associated with leasehold improvements in the form of a tenant allowance and received $11.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is a measure of our ability to access sufficient cash flows to meet the short-term and long-term cash requirements of our business operations. Since our founding, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities and payments received from our customers. In December 2021, we completed our initial public offering (IPO), which resulted in aggregate net proceeds of $846.7 million, including proceeds from the underwriters exercise of their option to purchase additional shares of our Class A common stock in January 2022 and net of underwriting discounts and commissions. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1,511.4 million as of May 4, 2024. We intend to continue investing in our business, and as a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute on our strategic initiatives to grow our business, particularly if we generate negative cash flows in future quarters. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments will be sufficient to support working capital, including our non-cancelable arrangements, and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. As of May 4, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments of $845.0 million. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash on deposit with banks as well as highly liquid investments with an original maturity of 90 days or less, when purchased. Our investments primarily consisted of U.S. government and agency securities, corporate notes and bonds, and commercial paper. Our primary uses of cash include personnel-related costs, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, sales and marketing expenses, overhead costs, and funding other working capital requirements, such as inventory and connected device costs to meet our performance obligations related to our Connected Operations Cloud. 28 Table of Contents Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth, our ability to attract and retain customers, the continued market acceptance of our solution, the timing and extent of spending necessary to support our efforts to develop our Connected Operations Cloud and meet our performance obligations related to our Connected Operations Cloud, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, and the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our and our customers and partners businesses. Further, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in businesses, products, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 23,670 $ 10,454 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 3,051 $ (17,729) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 312 $ (289) Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenses, sales and marketing expenses, inventory and connected device costs, third-party cloud and cellular infrastructure expenses, and overhead expenses. We have generated negative cash flows from operations in each of the past two fiscal years, and have supplemented working capital through net proceeds from the sale of equity securities. Cash provided by operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, net accretion of discounts on marketable debt securities, and non-cash operating lease costs, and changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Cash provided by operating activities was $23.7 million for the three months ended May 4, 2024. This consisted of a net loss of $56.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $66.4 million, and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $13.5 million. The non-cash charges were primarily comprised of stock-based compensation expense of $64.7 million and depreciation and amortization of $4.5 million, partially offset by net accretion of discounts on marketable debt securities of $4.0 million. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities during the three months ended May 4, 2024 reflect increases in deferred revenue due to the growth of our business, higher cash collections from customers, and lower prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by higher vendor payments, higher levels of inventories to meet anticipated demand requirements, higher connected device costs, and higher deferred commissions during the three months ended May 4, 2024. Cash provided by operating activities was $10.5 million for the three months ended April 29, 2023. This consisted of a net loss of $67.9 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $50.3 million, and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $28.0 million. The non-cash charges were primarily comprised of stock-based compensation expense of $52.9 million and depreciation and amortization of $3.5 million, partially offset by net accretion of discounts on marketable debt securities of $4.2 million. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities during the three months ended April 29, 2023 reflect higher cash collections from customers, increases in deferred revenue due to the growth of our business, lower inventories due to operating efficiencies in our order fulfillment processes, and $10.5 million in tenant allowances received during the three months ended April 29, 2023, partially offset by higher connected device costs and an additional $9.8 million prepayment of rent during the three months ended April 29, 2023. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $3.1 million for the three months ended May 4, 2024, which primarily consisted of $150.4 million of proceeds from maturities and redemptions of investments, partially offset by $142.3 million of purchases of investments and $5.1 million of capital expenditures for internal-use software development costs and our office facilities. Cash used in investing activities was $17.7 million for the three months ended April 29, 2023, which primarily consisted of $192.4 million of purchases of investments and $2.5 million of capital expenditures for internal-use software development costs and our office facilities, partially offset by $177.2 million of proceeds from maturities and redemptions of investments. 29 Table of Contents Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $0.3 million for the three months ended May 4, 2024, which primarily consisted of $0.8 million of proceeds from exercises of stock options, partially offset by $0.5 million in payments of principal on finance leases. Cash used in financing activities was $0.3 million for the three months ended April 29, 2023, which primarily consisted of $0.4 million in payments of principal on finance leases, partially offset by $0.2 million of proceeds from exercises of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our estimated future obligations consist of leases and non-cancelable purchase commitments as of May 4, 2024. For additional discussion on our leases and other commitments, refer to Notes 8, Leases, and 9, Commitments and Contingencies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in those financial statements and accompanying notes. Although we believe that the estimates we use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from those estimates. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended May 4, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.